ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e185	The representative of Vigdis Giltun, who has been authorized, has again taken the seat. The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e193	On behalf of the representatives Bent Höie, Sylvi Graham, Ingerd Schou and myself, I would like to propose better availability and reduced health cows by increasing the number of contract specialists.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e198	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform us that today's meeting is continuing beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e214	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e225	Housing policy is high on the public agenda and is subject to significant interest. To this end, the Committee held a hearing on the matter on 30 April, and the hearing was attended by a wide range of organisations, which used the opportunity to make their views known in the notification. The key challenge today is that there has been an imbalance between supply and demand over time. The supply of new dwellings has not kept up with demand. This has contributed to an increase in the price of dwellings which have far exceeded the growth in construction costs and which is higher than the wage growth in society. The Committee agrees that the dwellings being built today will remain for many years to come. Therefore, it is so essential that they support important societal considerations. The Committee has underlined in its comments that it is a political responsibility to ensure that the qualities not sufficiently taken into account by market players are respected. The key instrument to ensure these objectives is planning under the Planning and Building Act. The use of objections is central when we discuss spatial planning in the municipalities. There has been a topic that has been raised by a large number of municipalities with the Committee, including: on the many trips we've had all over the country. A Joint Committee has taken note of the report entitled ‘Impact of the Anti-Fraud Office on Local Self-Government’, prepared by Aplan Viak on behalf of the KS. It appears that objections do not always work in line with the provisions of the law, inter alia. as regards the provisions on early participation in the planning processes of all relevant opposition bodies, including both state, county and local authorities. The Committee considers that the provisions on the waiver of the right of objection should be exploited more actively by municipalities. In its comments, the Committee stressed that the quality of the dwelling extends beyond the construction technical solution. The concept of quality also includes aspects such as plan solutions, liberality, material use, energy use, outdoor areas and accessibility. The quality of the dwelling is also affected by the environment. Therefore, housing needs to be seen in the context of site development and transport solutions. In the Committee's view, it is a political responsibility to facilitate sustainable solutions to address these concerns. There is also a broad majority in the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, which shows that housing policy has been largely successful. Nearly eight out of ten households own their own dwelling, we have a high standard of housing, and we have liberal dwellings. In Norway, fortunately, few people are completely outside the housing market. For this broad majority, a good housing is together with the possibility of work, the right to education and the need for health and care services, the pillars of the Norwegian welfare community. It is the individual who has a responsibility to obtain a dwelling. At the same time, it is a public responsibility to facilitate a well-functioning market, so that everyone has the opportunity to obtain a dwelling and can live well. The majority indicate that it is central to facilitating the construction of enough dwellings. It is the task of the state to ensure good framework conditions for housing. Municipalities have the task of securing and regulating sufficient space for residential purposes, providing rapid and efficient building management and providing municipal rental housing. In summary, the Committee agrees on some key premises and challenges, but we strongly disagree on the means of achieving them. I assume that the representatives of the respective parties present their specific points of view and proposals. I am pleased that we have received a big message that addresses the broad housing policy, including the housing supply. For the Workers' Party, it is a central political task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. Here there is a distinction between the Right and the Advance Party on one side and the Working Party on the other. Norway currently has one of the least regulated housing markets in Europe. It is a paradox that in a country where there is a great deal else of public responsibility, we do not have a clearer political position of responsibility for securing people somewhere to live. For the Workers' Party, housing is just one of the four pillars of welfare policy, together with education, health and labour policy. Together, these are the basis for everyone to have the opportunity to create a good life. It is a state responsibility to ensure good framework conditions for housing construction. The municipalities have a task, and the state has a task. We want municipalities with offensive and forward-looking housing policies that meet a constructive and coordinated state. In summary, we want to take housing policy in a slightly different direction. We want a little bit less market and a little bit more policy. The dwellings that are being built now will be the dwellings that we use for decades to come. Therefore, today's housing policy must be forward-looking, even in terms of quality of what is being built. We live longer and longer, and most of us want to stay as far as possible in our own home when we grow old. The design of dwellings must take this into account. If we are to increase the proportion of available dwellings, we must make demands on the availability of the dwellings that are being built today. Despite the fact that some construction operators claim otherwise, several reports show that it is not very much more expensive to build dwellings with good availability. There are also several actors in the industry who demonstrate that well-accessible dwellings can be built with marginal additional costs. The assumption is that good planning and design takes into account availability from the outset. For the Workers' Party, it is little future-oriented to take a step back and in 2013 start building dwellings that are not accessible to everyone. The overall aim is to reduce energy use in buildings. We discussed this issue, among other things. thorough in relation to the processing of the building message earlier. Then we have to build buildings that are energy efficient. Then it is a little strange to note that the largest opposition party, the Progress Party, will return to the energy requirements of 1997 – i.e. more than 15 years old standards for energy efficiency. It is possible, as it was said from among others. The representative Amundsen in the debate we had yesterday, that the Progress Party recognises that there are man-made climate change and that the Progress Party supported some of the proposals that were being discussed yesterday. But this is a concrete measure in which the Progress Party wants to reverse changes, which is not a constructive contribution to meeting the challenge we are facing. For the Workers' Party, it is a goal that it should be as simple as possible to build dwellings. At the same time, we are concerned that what is being built should be built with good quality and with the least possible error. Therefore, there has to be a balance between simplification measures and quality requirements. The government announced simplifications in the planning and construction processes in the building message, and we will follow up on this with concrete simplification measures. One of the measures that will reduce the amount of proceedings in municipalities is the removal of the obligation to apply for simple measures on own property, to mention one example. The opposition will criticise us for the lack of action and for the absence of action in the notification. We do not agree with that. Of course, we can have a discussion whether there is the amount of action, or whether it is the quality of action that should be important. Firstly, the Communication contains a wide range of measures, and it sets out a whole range of important actions to be taken to achieve the objectives. But let me mention some of the most important steps for the Workers' Party. First of all, it's about student housing. This government has had a high rate of expansion in student housing, and we're going to continue that. During the last year of the Bondevik II government, 314 new student homes were built. In its period, the government of Stoltenberg has built about 1,000 new dwellings a year, and we are now increasing the rate. For the current year, 1 500 new student homes have been promised. For the Labour Party, we have even greater ambitions, because student housing is an important contribution to ease the pressure on the housing market in press areas. We have said that we want to step up to about 3,000 built dwellings a year. In addition, there is a desire to do something about the cost framework for student housing and to increase the rate of grant to about 50 pst. Of course, this is the case with this measure, as with all other measures: one thing is what you say and write, but it has to be followed up in annual budgetary decisions. It's our ambition to do that. The house bank has been, is and will be one of the most important tools we have in housing policy. It is the government’s goal that everyone should live safely. Extending the lending framework, as we have done on several occasions, is therefore one of several contributions to increased construction activity and improved quality of living in Norway. This will also be done in the context of the review of the revised national budget tomorrow — an increase in the framework of 20 billion. DKK to 25 billion kr for 2013. In conclusion, this down-to-earth notification addresses the broad housing policy, including the housing supply, which I was at the beginning. But the social housing work is also a high priority, it has had a high priority throughout the period and will have it in the future. Housing and services need to be increasingly seen in the context. In order to succeed in the social work of housing, the country needs to find the context. It's not always as easy, nor can it be the responsibility of municipalities to see all these contexts. A coordinated country provides better municipal solutions for individuals. That is why we are making, and alerts, a new strategy that brings together and targets public efforts. It is still an objective that everyone should be able to live well in Norway, regardless of the size of the wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e280	As the case spokesperson was about, the housing message we now have for treatment. She has the name «Bugg – bu – live. A housing policy for the individual, society and future generations’. It sounds very good, and one should think that this is a message with a lot of substance and content – at least when considering the long-term government has used it to prepare this message. The message is on 113 pages. So it's not very thick - 113 pages. There are many fine formulations – without substance. There are some words left in the message. Ten times has a used word evaluate; there are ten ratios to evaluate. 15 times has a used word "work out" – so there are 15 things that have to be further worked out. So the cover "Look at" is used 25 times. And the winner among the words used in the housing message is "assess". The word "appraisers" has been used 48 times – and there are many times. It's 48 relationships that have to be evaluated. 98 times on 113 pages is described as something to be further elaborated – to be evaluated, developed, looked at, considered – something to be further worked on in some way. This means that the government has spent almost eight years assessing what should be appreciated. As I said, there will be not much action on it. It'll stop. As the case spokesman was also in the case, Norway is a country where most people own their own housing. There has been broad political agreement on this, and it has also been part of the Norwegian lightning net, traditions build in a way that one should own his own dwelling – especially in the district of Norway, but also in the cities. About 80 pst. own his own dwelling, and approx. 20 pst. the lessee. It is also true that, in recent years, developments have moved in the direction that a person not only owns one dwelling during his life. One buys a dwelling and sells, then buys a new one and sells, etc. A change in the size, quality and location of the apartment depends on the private family situation. The last 20 years have seen a strong price rise in housing. Of course, it has been quite unproblematic for those who initially own a dwelling, those who are in the housing market. However, this sharp rise in prices has caused many young people to have problems establishing themselves in the housing market. Both housing prices and rental prices have risen, but housing prices have increased most. It has also been stronger in housing prices than in construction costs and the overall rise in prices in the market. The reason we've had this increase – which other countries haven't had, other countries have gone the other way – is that we've had a good development in the economy, and we've had a high oil price. There's something that obviously doesn't come from the government's work, but a high oil price has led to a very high level of activity in the oil sector, and it has had a good impact on the economy. One has also received good revenue to the public sector, which has allowed one to increase the number of public input. As a result, the demand for housing has gone up. The financial crisis has given low interest rates. This, of course, has resulted in a better purchasing power for the individual and has been able to increase its debt without any appreciable increase in the interest burden. The financial crisis has also resulted in a large immigration into Norway. Last year we had a net increase of 40,000 in the number of job seekers and 10,000 in the number of asylum seekers to Norway. They also need to buy – they are asked for housing, which means that prices are pushed up. The last point, which comes from the government's policy, is that there are several detailed rules. The number of countersigns has increased when it comes to regulating to land ready for construction. This means that regulation takes a very long time, and one thing is not to meet it until after many years. As the case spokesperson was concerned, there are also new requirements for the construction of the dwellings, for example. energy efficiency – a requirement that has come and that both costs and causes fewer dwellings to be built. The same applies to wheelchair availability – regardless of the size of the dwelling. This has meant that the smallest apartments are not built at all. The result is that the smallest apartments, down to 30 m2, rise most in the market – due to the fact that no more of them are built. It's because it's almost impossible to adjust these to wheelchairs. The party of progress is concerned about rising housing prices. It is a fact that many young people have problems getting into the housing market and that these developments will worsen when additional requirements for energy efficiency are introduced. This will make it worse because it will be built fewer and more expensive dwellings. If prices are pushed further up, the potential for fall will be even greater. We mean that the state should not go in and regulate in detail how to build a dwelling up in Finnmark, in the West, in Hedmark, etc. We believe that it should mainly be up to the individual builder and purchaser to decide which standards and qualities to set for each building. We nevertheless believe that there must be certain minimum requirements, for example. the energy requirements and the minimum standard introduced in 1997. We see no need for politicians to make any additional demands beyond that. We don't know the best for others, we think people know the best for themselves. Norway has a comprehensive regulatory framework and legislation that one has to comply with when building dwellings. One has these laws to comply with when building buildings: planning and building laws with regulations and guidelines – the building part – planning and building laws – the plan part – cultural monuments, energy legislation, fire and explosion protection laws, electrical supervision laws, housing laws, work environment laws, discrimination laws, consumer laws, housing registration laws, craft services laws, property brokerage laws, disposal laws, tax laws, etc., contract and contract law – public procurement law, contract law, purchasing law – and environmental law. In addition, what we've been up to in the past is public hearing bodies in connection with construction projects. So we have 22 agencies that can come up with contradictions that can stop and prevent building construction, so we don't have any national agencies that are working to promote building construction. The Progress Party therefore believes that this message underlines in a good way that the problem in Norway is not too little housing policy, but too much and bad housing policy. One simply has too many rules and too much detail control, which makes it too slow to cover the increased demand for housing that we have seen in recent years. That's the point: the public has to regulate less, no more, if the housing market is to balance. We mean that something is ripping faults when it goes five, six, seven years just to regulate to a building plot empty. Of course, there is a lack of land in many places, and thus an explosive rise in housing prices, especially in central areas. The party of progress therefore believes that we must be very reluctant to impose detailed requirements on new buildings, and that developments there must be natural, without pressure from central government powers. What, then, should be done to achieve a better balance in the housing market? Well, there's a couple of points that the Progress Party is occupied with, for example. red tape and detailed management needs to be reduced. There are too many countersigns, too much detail control. The last thing that came in was independent control of dwellings, which makes it more expensive. This has to go down to a much lower level. It has to go down to a minimum. This also applies to the contradictions – they have to be limited. Many good construction projects have been prevented because of contradictions. Now, of course, I am aware of the government's efforts to coordinate these contradictions, that the County will take care of it. I don't think there's any solution at all. I just think that it can give these contradictions even greater weight and strength, making it harder to build ahead. The energy efficiency requirement must be reversed. I think if you're busy saving energy, if you're busy increasing the energy surplus in Norway, this can be done in completely different ways, with positive tools: support schemes for, for example. one-stroke pump and by providing for more expansion of hydropower, etc. That would be better. That there should be passive house standards on all buildings, wherever they are built – in Finnmark, in the West, in Hedmark, Oslo, etc. – would be very wrong. The requirement for wheelchair access must also be removed, and it applies particularly to the smallest types of occupants. It goes without saying that there will be the smallest dwellings that become the most heavily affected by this requirement, which will have the biggest problems and the biggest costs of adaptation. The capital requirement of 15 pst. must go away. Banks must have a banking assessment of who is to be loaned and not. If you've been studying for many years and want to buy a dwelling, you may not have that much of your capital, but you may have a very good income that makes it no problem to borrow a mortgage, even if you borrow 100 pst. So it has to be up to the banks to assess what is a banker's defence to give in loans. The BSU system must be improved. She has to increase to 300,000 kroner in total – 25 000 kroner a year and 28 pst. tax deductions. This is something that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have supported us in, and therefore I hope that this can be a reality if we get a government shift to the fall. The document fee must be removed. It's also called the move tax. This means that those who are mobile and move and change the dwelling more often have to pay a higher cost in document fee than the other must. The document fee is a fiscal fee. The typing fee covers the costs that the State has to bear in order to light things up. The document fee is then an additional cost. Then it is – as the case-speaker was about – that there must be several student buildings. We have proposed that. During the treatment of the State budget, we proposed the construction of a total of 2 000 additional student housing. So there's 1,000 more dwellings than the government has proposed. Our proposal was put to the vote. We are now very happy that the government party has come after and at least come to meet us a little bit, but we think that we need to build more student buildings, and that we need to increase our bets. Building more student buildings is a step that the state can take and that will be effective. So today there is a lack of student housing. This means that students are asking for both three-, four- and five-room apartments, especially in the central areas of the cities, to live collectively in these larger apartments. This makes it all the more difficult for others to enter the rental market. There are also other ways of doing this, which other countries have used, for example. hybel containers. Outside Amsterdam, a small town with such containers has been built. They're built in the same size as a container, they're shipped as a container, they're usually from China, and they're 28 m2 and they're very nice. So there's a grip you can take to get the building up and get more student buildings added very quickly. It's about a year from an order until they're in place. The last point is this going on infrastructure. Better pathways and collective services are good tools to make commuting easier and faster. I don't think it's the distance from work to housing that's the decisive thing, but it's the time it takes from housing to the workplace and back again to determine how far away from the workplace you want to live. Therefore, infrastructure is very important. The national transport plan has just been dealt with, and we proposed 45.5 billion. kr more every year on the road and track. If it had been adopted, it would have been possible to commute over much larger area. So there's not a total lack of land in this country that's the problem, but a lack of road and path out and in from the big cities that makes many people move into the center to establish themselves. If we had invested in infrastructure, it would have been much easier to commute over longer distances. That would also lead to that we had the housing prices down, and that we had no longer had anything similar to a politician-made lack of land. We wanted to get plots to build and build, so that also the young people could establish themselves in the housing market, which many people are prevented from doing today. Finally, I would like to re-submit the proposals that the Progress Party is behind either alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e347	The representative Gjermund Hagesetter has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e350	How we live is largely based on how we individuals experience our social situation. It is quite interesting for us who have been involved in housing policy for some years, that this Communication does not contain a programme statement or overall vision for housing policy in Norway. Sure, it contains a lot of nice words about how nice it is to live safely, but I guess we didn't need a big message to be remembered. In the past, housing policy operated with a national target of how much of the average disposable income to cover the costs of living. If I were to formulate a goal for housing policy, it would become something like this: the goal of housing policy is to facilitate that everyone can obtain a decent and safe housing that can be financed through ordinary income, by enabling the housing market to provide a variety of types of housing that suit the individual household and living conditions, and that public housing solutions and housing subsidies should be more targeted to help disadvantaged groups better. One of the features of this Communication is that the State has not fully clarified its governance ambitions. I think it is very important that the state directs its governance ambitions towards what policy is for governing, namely coordinated decisions relating to the transport of roads, of railways, of land planning at large. Then you can play on a market-driven housing production that is responsible for the parties that participate in it, and actually also with a slightly greater consumer influence by making their own preferences about the qualities they want in their housing. An example of the fact that the country is involved in many subordinate and detailed ideas about how Norway is to be expanded is, of course, the widespread use of objections. I refer here to the local authority's organisation, KS, which has had a broad survey that showed that there are hardly any major spatial plans that have not been met by state objections. Therefore, government agencies need to reduce the use of objections and they need to be coordinated and limited thematically. The objectors must be reminded of the reason for holding the objector. So it's only to be used if it's of national importance or of strong regional interest. The right considers that, in order to achieve a target of lower housing prices, it is essential that the construction industry can cut its costs. The construction industry must also contribute itself to more rational production. Today, for example, 22,000 dwellings are built on pre-regulated plots only in Oslo. Nevertheless, many builders are detained because state policy contains ambiguous signals, which give them uncertainty. Construction has a desire to build more dwellings faster. Daily, however, the industry faces challenges that stand in the way of the needs of the industry. The everyday life of enterprises — as reported to us through consultations and other — is characterised by the existence of a through-bureaucratic field dominated by forms, the application requirements of a number of non-cooperative public bodies. This applies to both small and large-scale projects and, in particular, to large and important projects in and around cities. This message comes entirely at the brink of a boom – and at the very end of the eight-year period that the red-greens have run the country – and we must note that this government has not been particularly hasty about producing this message, which unfortunately also fits into the general impression that one has not been pursuing an active housing policy. There is also a significant gap between what is achieved in the form of housing production and what is reported as the need for housing. It is, of course, nice that we have finally received a big message about housing policy, but it is therefore too late. In addition, the communication is very unclear about what you want, and to a large extent these measures consist in implementing current policies. Almost no concrete measures are announced to address the housing issue. I want to reflect a little – as the representative Hagesetter did – on the form of the message. There have been many representative initiatives here in the Chamber that have just pushed the call for housing. We have had proposals, for example: amending the rules on the expiry of the regulatory plans after five years, thereby contributing to the uncertainty surrounding the financing of projects. Then, of course, it was received as interesting and noted to some extent as a recording of which one had a sympathetic attitude – and then it was referred to the housing message. And then came the residential message, and the answer is the exact same thing, that this is interesting, this should be looked at further. Then the question is, what do you actually use these messages for? I also allow myself to draw a different message, children in flight, which was really about calming nervous government partners, more than telling if you wanted a new policy in this field. So I have to be almost so bold as to say that part of the messages has the clear purpose of not notifying about where to take new initiatives, but rather to calm down and say that basically everything is hurt well and we are not going to do anything special about it. It reminds me a little of conversational therapy – if you don’t get to do anything with the underlying problems, it’s often nice to talk about them at least. I must also say that under this government we also have others who pursue housing policy. Financial supervision is managed by a person who personally believes that we are now in a housing bubble, and who in public writing has drawn the parallel to Ireland, a country characterised by a high degree of labour migration. When economic activity turned back in Ireland, many naturally moved back and left a hole in the housing market, which led to pressure on prices. This is the same person as – with a stroke – increased the equity requirement by 50 p.m., in December 2011, without – as far as I understand it – the government was informed about this, or at least it had the respect for the expert council that she was involved in this. So bureaucracy controls Norway, and they do it in a way that has an impact on housing — while the government does not control this. The specific equity requirement is a good example. To address the demand for some of the markets, the instrument was targeted at those who were first-time start-ups. For equity, there is no problem for those who are going to buy their second dwelling, because they have free values in the old when the market is going largely up. So this was simply a'mass destruction weapon' calculated precisely on the first-time starters, from which we already know the oldest demand, the cheapest and the smallest dwellings in the market, and which is therefore not the group that pushes prices up. This has been almost impossible to have a dialogue with the Council of State on, but I will come back to this later in the debate. So it's not just to say that you're responsible for housing issues – you have to actually also control the parameters that seem much stronger on the housing demand than on the staging messages, which we spend time here in Stortinget. It reminds me of another good proposal that we have made in the notes and in the proposals, namely that we want the government's responsibility to be clarified by putting the planning and housing issues in one department, so we do not have the liability transport that we have seen here on some occasions when we have asked about coherent housing policies. The right has noted with some concern the use of language in the communication on how the further taxation of dwellings and other real estate becomes. I think we're just going to stress here today that housing investment is one of the most important things we do in our lives, and that it's very important for people's security that these framework conditions are fixed, so you can trust them over the years, and that you don't cut the tax on housing, that our homes don't become a nice treasure. Furthermore, together with the Progress Party, we have tabled seven proposals on the subject. Among them is one of the most important clarifications in the Planning and Building Act that you should only stick to questions of national interest when you have objections. It is also a proposal to improve BSU schemes and others. I would also like to inform you that we will support the proposals tabled by the Left in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e386	Thank you to the case rapporteur, to the committee and to the department, with the Liv Signe Navarsete State Council at the head. Housing is an important theme, and housing is a fun topic. Most policy areas can rightly call for greater or lesser coverage of the whole – knowledge debates, cultural debates, food debates and environmental debates – and there are absolutely also housing debates, which are really among them. Under the heading ‘housing’, most policy areas can be addressed. Therefore, it is also important that in such messages and in debates before, during and after such messages are submitted, we also take responsibility for safeguarding this diversity and the breadth that such a theme deserves – and what I think the message does in a good way. In this way – just to comment on it – I wonder a little bit about this notion that one can just gather everything that somehow has to do with housing, in one department. In my opinion, it shows that one has not fully absorbed just the width that is in the housing theme and in the housing debate – if we do not believe that there is enough with one department and one government council. My thanks also include absolutely Gjermund Hageseter and Michael Tetzschner, sail if I can see that two people who have been on the Stortinget for so long, to some extent should have understood what a big message is. A notification of default is not a budgetary document or a concrete document of action. A big message will show a good description of the situation, and as far as I have been given in the debate about that message, most people have just said that it does it in a good way. It should also show good and proper direction, and it should inspire us to further concrete work where we do not see the big message going far enough – and most of us do so with all the big messages. It's supposed to be an inspiration just to work concretely further. Some of this diversity, which is important to take care of, goes among other things. that it is important to see that housing challenges and thus housing policies need to be completely different in urban and urban areas than in rural and rural areas. In this policy area, the debate is often centred on big cities or Oslo, and then we forget a little about housing policy and what kind of housing discussion we need to have to tackle the challenges in the countryside, such as: Is characterized by the fact that few dwellings are built in many of our towns, that there is a need for rentals, that there is a problem that if a seller is a dwelling there, gets a back very little in relation to the one maybe invested in the dwelling, if one built just a few years ago, etc. It is also important to take into account that the housing debate is part of the welfare debate and the welfare debate, and then it is absolutely part of a nutrition debate, for the housing industries – there are many of them – are important employment issues. They are important local and national economics. They are very important when discussing future skills needs, both related to education and research. They're very important when we're going to discuss work immigration, because there's a lot of work immigrants in our construction industries. On the welfare side, this is very important with quality, price, security and availability, here as in the case of other welfare services. There is also another very important debate that I see the message taking up, and as I think it is important to continue working on, and that is precisely this with the relationship between owning and renting. We have, for historical reasons, very much, attentively both politically and economically, put the ownership line in focus, and we shall continue to do so. But we may have gotten a certain imbalance that in a modern society, more of us – not only so-called disadvantaged – will be interested in the fact that it is a well-functioning rental market, not only usually commercial, but certainly also outside the traditional commercial one. Both housing municipalities and housing cooperatives can play an important role. Before I go out, there are also a couple–three other things that are important to bring with me into housing policy. Housing policy is largely part of an urban development, urban development and cultural landscape policy and theme. It is important to view housing and housing as an instrument for creating good, beautiful, well-functioning societies. Then there's an additional problem that housing is both a saving and speculation object that it's tricked and right to put money in, with the pluses and the negatives that are attached to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e407	Housing is a necessary well-being in line with work, the right to health care and education. A safe and stable housing situation is a necessary framework for all human lives. The central party supports the government's objectives for housing and building policy: housing for all in a good housing environment, safe establishment in owner-occupied or rented housing, housing conditions that promote well-being and participation, easily accessible, secure, energy-efficient and healthy construction and, in particular, better and more efficient construction processes. A broad majority, all except the Advance Party, believe that Norwegian housing policy has been successful for the broad community of the people. The fact that eight out of ten households own their own housing has contributed to independence and a high standard of living. Few people are outside the housing market. Together with other welfare policies, housing policy should ensure that the few that fall outside are also given the help they need to live safely and well. It's incredibly important, not least for kids, to have stable frames around their lives. While continuing to facilitate the widest possible ownership of our own housing, we also need to develop the rental market. In different life situations, many people will need to rent housing for a shorter or longer period of time. Students tend to be in a phase of life where renting a dwelling is most topical. Despite a high rate of expansion of student housing in the post-2005 years, there is still no real need. The Government, in its revised national budget, has increased the grant for 2013 in order to provide this year with commitments for 1500 new student housing. The government has announced a national strategy for housing social work. Housing for refugees to be settled in Norwegian municipalities becomes one of the areas of activity. It is important for persons who have been accommodated in Norway to be offered, as soon as possible, a municipality of residence and housing as a safe framework for their lives in Norway. Faster settlement means faster integration and a better platform for participation in work and the local environment. The State shall not build dwellings, but shall facilitate the construction of adequate housing through good framework conditions. Municipalities, for their part, are responsible for securing and regulating sufficient space for housing purposes, ensuring rapid building management and providing municipal rental housing. I would like to stress the importance of the government in the revised national budget increasing the loan framework in the House Bank by 5 billion. kr. Priority shall be given to basic loans for the construction of dwellings, in particular loans for rental dwellings, for example: to refugees and other disadvantaged persons. Demand for housing is high in many places in Norway, much higher than the supply. It is linked to population growth, among others. as a result of high levels of labour immigration. For the Center Party, it is important that we work on a broad front to increase the supply of housing. The housing situation with strong price pressure in some urban areas shows, in our view, the need for a policy that prevents centralisation and ensures a more balanced distribution of population growth. The government's regional and district policies are important in this way. In urban regions, we depend on building denser and higher and exploiting the land area more efficiently, not least to save food. In press areas, municipalities must cooperate to regulate sufficient numbers of plots, and local and central authorities must contribute together to transport solutions that develop larger housing and labour market regions. It's not just in the central area there are challenges with housing supply. Many district municipalities have specific challenges related to low housing construction due to the low market price of new dwellings, often far below the cost of construction. It is therefore necessary to further develop housing security schemes in these areas as well. There are many considerations that apply when regulating the area for housing. Promoting opposition to development plans is an important part of our democracy and an important part of ensuring overall national interests. At the same time, reports show that the scheme does not always work as intended. I therefore attend to the government's notified review of the opposition institute. Some considerations might need to be more weight, some less weight. Arable land is a scarce resource both worldwide and in Norway. Soil protection considerations must therefore be weighed more heavily. Access to safe food and clean water, two of the few things that are more important than housing, are often taken for granted. Food soils are under so much pressure that they need more stringent protection in order to be preserved. The development of industry, infrastructure and housing must therefore be balanced against the long-term objective of food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e435	The Christian People's Party believes that the main purpose of housing policy must be to facilitate a stable housing market, where everyone is given the opportunity to live in owner-occupied dwellings. We have long lacked an active housing policy in Norway. This has created a heated housing market with a huge price rise and ever higher thresholds for getting inside. In recent years, only dwellings corresponding to 75 pst have been built. of the need. With such a low housing structure, it goes without saying that it will lead to a further warming up of an already heated housing market. There is therefore a growing need for new interventions to increase housing, while avoiding urban sprawl for climate, soil protection and social capital. The Nordics live in cities and towns, and this is where the growth is strongest. The notification could probably have had a clearer strategy for increased housing construction. The Christian People's Party believes that the government takes too little into account the major consequences of a low housing structure. The increasing pressure on the housing market is mainly exerting pressure on young new entrants, lonely, immigrants and disadvantaged people. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes the government's proposal to strengthen the House Bank. We also need urban and urban development that is more conducive to living, working and trading in the same place. Fortress and higher houses are most important in the big cities, but also smaller towns need to make better use of the centres for housing, commercial buildings, shops and restaurants. Unfortunately, too many smaller cities and agglomerations are planning in a way that is not compatible with climate, soil protection and well-functioning communities today. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that there is a need for reinforced state guidelines on densities that also apply to smaller agglomerations. It is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to enter the housing market. The housing prices have doubled in ten years without the limits of the amount in the BSU being applied. The Christian People's Party is therefore choosing to increase the amount limit to NOK 300000 for total savings, NOK 30 000 for annual savings and increased deductions to NOK 30 000. This will make a huge difference for young people who are striving to enter the housing market. This is particularly important in view of the recent increase in the equity requirement of 15 pst. in the case of the purchase of housing, which in isolation appears to be more of a measure to strengthen banks than to facilitate a more efficient housing market. The capital requirement will result in even greater difficulties for more young people and others with a weak economy to enter the housing market. The rules push young people into the rental market, and then speculation increases there. Or they have to take up expensive consumption loans on top of the mortgage. Students are also a group with difficulties in entering the housing market. High housing prices at several places of study contribute to boosting living costs, which in turn means that students spend more time working rather than studying. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the offer of reasonable student housing needs to be increased, and in the Christian People's Party's alternative budget, it was proposed to increase the grant for student housing equivalent to 1000 new dwellings. The construction of student housing will be an important part of a sustainable housing policy targeted at young people. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party in its programme for the next period has as its clear goal the construction of 3,000 more dwellings per year. This is also a good housing policy. Finally, I would like to mention that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is following and supporting us and the government-appointed Committee on Housing with the proposal to make the «Leie pre-self» scheme into a national system. The scheme shall ensure that the housing market for disabled persons is able to do so. The household bank must be a driving force in the work where loan and grant schemes must be set up in such a way as to enable ownership to be established. Christian People's Party and many with us believe that there is more to it than reality descriptions and nostalgic reflections in housing policy. Action, action and instruments are needed to improve the situation in the housing market. That's our expectation, that's the government's ability and also the solution to the problem. So simple, but so crucial for so many.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e456	Norwegian housing policy has been largely successful in view of a desire for people to own their own housing. However, too little housing is built in Norway, and it takes too long to have them repaired. Building more dwellings are among the most important measures that politicians can contribute to keeping prices so that it is possible for people to enter the housing market with a normal teaching or nursing job. The aim of the left in the next period is to build almost 40000 dwellings per year. There's 10,000 more dwellings than what's done right now. I am very uncertain whether this message is offensive enough to achieve it. The only new thing in the message is that the government decided to keep the BSU, sail if you don't increase the amount limit. I very much disagree with what is the point of a big message. It's not a discussion problem. It's not a source of inspiration for anyone. It's a change of policy. At least it was meant that it was the point of a big message until this government joined. It was because one had proposals for new measures that had to be approved by the Storting, or new political offensives or policy changes. That was the reason why they delivered groceries messages, not because it was nice to have a debate in Stortinget on a theme. If we're going to do something about the housing challenges, we're going to have to take a holistic approach. We need to simplify the law, especially within the planning and building framework. I have to point out that I am too universal in design, and that climate action is included in housing, but this can be done in much simpler ways than today. I think there are a lot of drivers in this field that you have to have political control over if you're going to be able to move on. I discovered an example of this when I visited the SINTEF expert group on fire in Trondheim, where they said that today's fire regulations mean putting fire regulations on old fire regulations on old fire regulations. Then you end up with a system where you have triplets and four times fuses, and those who are professionals are also the same ones that provide very many of these facilities. Thus, no drivers want some of the old systems to be disconnected when you get new ones. You put fire safety systems on top of each other, because you don't have an objective competence that is able to say that some of the old rules might be sold out when we get new and better systems. We still need to clean up in relation to regulations, for example. TEK 10, and we need an offensive within infrastructure. Therefore, all the proposals promoted by the Left to the NTP on more public transport are a very important part of housing policy. The message should be clearer on many of these questions. We need more housing to dampen the price growth. This means that we need measures for first-time start-ups. We need 2,000 new student homes every year. We need to make equity requirements indicative, so that banks can exercise more judgement. We need an increase in BSU, and we need to strengthen the role of the House Bank. We have tabled two proposals today, which I am pleased that at least two parties have said that they agree. One proposal is to facilitate the rental of owner-occupied dwellings. Simplifying the requirements here would make it possible to get a lot of rental units out on the market. We've tried to do it many times before -- we're not giving up. We believe that as long as the requirements on escape routes, fire safety and the safety of the residents are met, there may be greater freedom of contract and greater freedom of action for municipalities to grant exemptions when they can assess this objectively. The second proposal concerns that we want to make student homes for our own regulatory purpose. If this had become a separate regulatory purpose, it would have given faster processes and thus more dwellings in the market. Student housing should be an important part of e.g. urban renewal. When Oslo now builds up her Fjordbyen, the left has stood on very hard so that student homes will be part of that fjord village development. We'll be fine. But nothing comes from the government that helps us, either in terms of cost frameworks or in terms of the regulatory objectives. In the vote, we shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 1, 3-7, and, of course, our own, which I take up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e484	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e488	People's housing conditions and housing markets provide a central framework for how we as a society develop us. A good and safe housing is a pillar of the lives of the individual, but also one of the pillars of the welfare community. In the big news about housing policy, Building – bu – live, I put on behalf of the government the premise for an offensive and broad housing policy – clear objectives: housing for everyone in good housing, safe establishment in ownership and rented housing and building conditions that promote well-being and participation. These are clear goals for individuals and for society. Taxes for those who use housing as an investment object and so push prices into competition with people with less means, e.g. youth, is not part of the government's housing policy objectives, even the representative Tetzschner, who had not read the goals, but who was all the more concerned about investors. We live well here in the country – especially well. Four out of five own their dwelling. We have larger housing than in most other countries, and we are good at maintenance. Last year we spent 60 billion. NOK to clean up our homes. The housing stock in Norway is worth $600 billion. It is a difficult sector in society, but most important to each one's life. Building is back on a high level after a decline in the financial crisis some years ago. We have high employment. The development of income has been good. Along with easy access to loans, this helps to make the living room possible for many people. Most people live well – yet there are many who labor in the housing market. The most important thing that governance does is to facilitate the construction of more buildings – quickly. We want it to be built more, faster and better. In a short time, comprehensive simplification measures will come in relation to construction projects, in the Planning and Building Act, as a follow-up to the building message last year. The Building message sets the noise against the leveling processes. Long-term planning processes and uncertainty about the outcome render the dwellings unnecessary and delay necessary construction. So we realize that the practice of countersigns must be in line with the intention of the law. There are important regional and national concerns that provide a basis for state contradictions. State actors should be involved in the process at an early stage, and they need to coordinate themselves much better. That image also includes deadlines in planning matters. In six counties, a new countermeasure is now to be practised, as a pilot project. The state must speak with one voice. We need to improve cooperation between municipalities and the state and between municipalities at regional level. In the major urban regions, municipalities and counties need to cooperate better in order to ensure housing and good land use. Municipalities should pay particular attention to housing and the good distribution of housing between municipalities in the regional plans. We want the regional plans to be the basis for voluntary agreements between the county and the municipalities. Then we get smart planning of housing and we prevent contradictions. For the first time, the State shall establish planning lines for housing. Municipalities and regions shall see new residential areas and agglomerations around collective nodes in relation to their spatial and transport plans. We must continue, we must make better use of the land, and so prevent us from using valuable areas, both land cultivation and other areas with important environmental qualities. The message also announces other measures to speed up building – evaluation of the rules for development contracts, order requirements in building construction and the five-year deadline for private planning proposals. If we build too few buildings, the threshold becomes the highest for those with the lowest incomes. However, despite the price growth over the last decade, there have been increasing numbers of young householders: last year, four out of ten were single in the 25–29 age group. Ten years ago, in 2003, the number was three out of ten. At least it's going in the right direction. Many households have high levels of debt. Most people are doing well – with low interest rates and low unemployment. But if the market is turning around, the risk for many can be great. For this reason, a sound economic policy on the one hand — and raising housing on the other — is one of the most important things we can do to help young people enter the housing market. The initial loan should be for those with long-standing housing and financing problems – not for those who can save a few years before they can afford to buy a dwelling themselves. Some problem-solving people who still have stable income can manage a mortgage. Therefore, we have extended the amortisation period, and the initial loan may be an important arrangement for them. We're running out of time. I think I have to come back to the national strategy for housing-social work, because it is perhaps one of the most important things we should do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e516	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e519	As I said in my post, the housing message contains many fine wordings, but unfortunately no substance. It also applies to the contribution to the Council of State. The housing message is on 113 pages. The word ‘evaluate’ has been used 10 times, there are 15 measures to be developed, there are 25 measures to be considered and 48 measures to be considered. 98 times on 113 pages discusses something to be done in some way. The government has spent almost eight years evaluating what to evaluate. Then the question is, how long does the government and the Council of State need to get these arrangements up to the Storting? Do you need a four, eight, or twelve years? What kind of time aspect is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e526	It would have been nice if the representative Hageseter had used the time to read the content of the message, instead of counting words. The government has spent these eight years improving housing market conditions, especially for those who need it the most. We did a big lift by strengthening the bus pay scheme in 2009. This year's licenses are close to 3 billion. kr. There are 120,000 households that received approx. NOK 25 000 through this scheme. We have been given new permission in this area. We guarantee privacy better. We have greatly thanked the House Bank for the gift of a loan for the House Bank. We build five times as many student housing this year as one did during the Bondevik II government. We have increased the supplement for rental rentals, and we have increased the supplement for establishment, we have increased the supplement for adaptation. We do a lot, and we have presented the visions of the future housing policy in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e531	According to the Evening Post last week, the Financial Supervisory Authority fears many vacant dwellings in Norway in the years that come. Director Emil Steffensen and director Morten Baltzersen point to the similarity between labour immigration in Norway, Ireland and Spain and the collapse of the housing market in the latter two countries. Does the Council agree with this analysis — that we can move into a situation of surplus housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e536	I haven't seen the background of the analyses to which this is referenced, so it's hard for me to say in agreement or not. I would have liked to have seen the background material, not just the conclusions. But each and every one of us can think about what would happen if the financial crisis we see in Europe struck Norway too completely. That would probably mean that many of those who are today work immigrants would probably return to their homeland. It would release very many dwellings not least in the central east region. How it will enter the housing market will be speculation. But it's clear that if a left-wing representative suggested increasing housing construction to 40,000, and one at the same time having such a decline in the economy, there might be something in what they say. But I haven't seen the background for these analyses, so I can't be any more specific in what I'm answering.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e543	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to get a housing building where we use fortightness, we need to build more in height, concentrate it around the center – to maintain housing – while at the same time maintaining the climate, and not least what is involved in soil protection. However, Section 12 of the new Land Act opens up for scattered settlement – at the expense of agriculture – also adopted by the Centre Party. How are you going to be able to see these two things together – increased housing, but at the same time taking care of our important food land in the future? I'm imagining that the center party is occupied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e550	The center part is peculiarly occupied by it. But the Central Party is obviously also concerned that people should have a safe place to bow. We must be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. Therefore, we need to differentiate between the needs of the press areas, and we need to build higher, denser, and use the area much better than what we are doing today. This will be reflected in the new national policy guidelines that we are now working on, which will come in a short time. On the other hand, it is important – in the countryside, in the smaller towns – that one can also build dwellings in the alleys, if not the foundation of the school, for the store – for the social infrastructure – every once in a while. It must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. A careful re-disposal, not necessarily of a lot of cultivated land, but out in the alleys, we think is important. So a differentiation here is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e557	Making our homes safe may be the basis for creating a housing code. We have very few environments of expertise throughout the construction site that have objective competence, which are also not sellers into a market, or that provide many of the solutions we have – like the example I used of fire. We don't have an objective environment that doesn't provide any of the services and that can go in and check out what's effective. In the SINTEF environment, it is claimed that only safety systems are put on top of safety systems and do not remove any of the old requirements when new and more efficient solutions come. What can the Council of State do to minimise the old requirements when we get new and better technological solutions and to ensure that there are objective environments that can assess them?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e566	When the department prepares new requirements, it is not so that it is done in a vacuum. A lot of preparatory work is about getting a good foundation from institutions like SINTEF, NTNU and the research environment around it. It is in this policy, i.e. in housing policy and in building policy, and it is in other sectors. It is clear that this work is also about evaluating existing legislation. I don't know the statement that came into this field, but I want to believe that my people who are listening here have noticed this, and that one can also have a dialogue about what's here. If it's like layers on layers, it makes sense to clean, go through and look at what should be gone. That's what normal is the process when a new law is created.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e573	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e577	Many of us who live reasonably well take it for granted. It might be like this in a society with relatively small differences, where eight out of ten own homes. But the housing market has its challenges. There are too few dwellings built for our growing population. It is very expensive for young people to enter the housing market, and it is even worse for disadvantaged people. Of course, the challenges are greatest where population growth is greatest. It is easy to imagine that housing shortages are only a problem in the press areas of the East and in the largest cities around the country. Nevertheless, there is a shortage of housing around the whole country. We, who are national politicians, must have the ability to see all sides of this challenge. In District Norway, there are almost no new houses being built. Prices on the housing market in most district municipalities are so low that the builder may lose half of the investment in a possible sale. A housing investment in District Norway often becomes for those who establish themselves for life, others may not dare. You could ask yourself why there's not going to be a vacant house where there's a disembarkation. The answer is simple – our wealth development has helped us to move away from our childhood home without having to sell it. The houses are converted into recreational dwellings. They are well maintained, but they are not available to people who want to live in one place all year round – all year round. It is paradoxical that areas lacking skills, professionals and labour should not be triggered because of lack of housing. This is proof that the market is not working well enough. The district councils must take the lack of housing seriously. Without a house, no move. This means that municipalities wishing to move should build rental dwellings, so that housing facilities are available. The house bank has a grant for rental properties for which it is possible to apply, but it is aimed at the disadvantaged in the housing market. The House Bank also has a grant aimed at housing in districts where there is a small and uncertain housing market. The grant goes to 12 municipalities, which from 2012 have participated in a three-year pilot scheme. Norwegian municipalities have a total of over 100000 rentals. These dwellings are targeted at different target groups, such as those disadvantaged on the housing market, municipal employees and movers, and there are elderly and care homes, to mention something. In 2008, an investment grant scheme was established for lucky day care facilities, and the target of 12 000 lucky day care facilities or nursing homes by 2015 remains constant. That's the government's goal, and it's working against it. The investment grant to these sites has been further increased during the current period, which has been positively received outside the municipalities. Housing policies are so numerous and consist of different parts because the inhabitants of municipalities have different needs. In order to fulfil their task, municipalities must put housing policy on the agenda and be active actors. Municipalities may choose whether to own the dwellings themselves or to enter into agreements with private individuals to rent or dispose of the dwellings. If this cooperation works well, it can relieve the municipalities and provide predictable framework conditions for the lessors. It is also important to ensure that the Husbank has a role to play as an informant on the different ways in which this is carried out, according to the wishes or opportunities of the individual municipality. The House Bank is a very important instrument for influencing and developing the housing situation throughout the country in the desired direction, and the Government is actively using the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e598	The right considers housing and land policy and organisation to be largely about making it easier for municipalities to plan and build, but also assisting with measures and economics to resolve the heaviest infrastructure investments, such as railway projects in the largest cities. In this context, the right has committed itself to co-financing of up to 50 pst. in such projects, and recalls the commitment of Fornebubanen and the continuation of the Urban Railway in Bergen as good examples. There are examples of projects that contribute to sensible urban magnification and regional magnification and that facilitate pressure in key urban areas. It is essential to be in advance of planning. Therefore, the right will plan more comprehensively and with better planning tools. We have to be careful not to make arrangements that are put in place for the good cause, become their enemy or hesitant. An important step will be to simplify the planning system by limiting the use of KVU and KS1 to projects where there are clear conceptual choices. The system of KVU and KS1 should be developed at the same time so that the results of this work can provide clearer guidance for project planning under the Planning and Building Act. However, processes should also be able to be substantially and simplified in such a way that they take less time, without compromising quality. There should be a broad involvement in planning processes and solutions without broad support should be swept out as early as possible. The right also wants clear national guidelines on the emphasising of soil protection interests and housing and transport development in metropolitan areas. This is in order to clarify which zones can be developed despite the fact that land has been cultivated today. In addition, it is necessary to establish a procedure for the conservation and movement of good food soils in the development of cultivated land. On the right, municipalities should be given a guarantee or kind of agreement that allows them to raise matters to a higher level already in the start-up phase of a local process. An obliging agreement with the State must provide local authorities with a guarantee that the State’s system cannot delay and pursue expansion processes. As far as possible, the State must speak with one voice, and not as today, where even within the county office there are three different opinions on a matter. Right will escalate the use of state-level regulation of major transport corridors of major national importance, in order to ensure faster development and land development. There should be a set of simple criteria that automatically trigger government plans and/or state approval of planning programmes. The right considers that the national transport plan as we know it today should be a more comprehensive plan for the transport sectors, where these are seen in conjunction with each other, and assessed against different scenarios of development, not only for the transport sectors but also for housing and land policy. It follows from this that we should have had our own spatial and collective strategy for the metropolitan areas. Research should also be included as an important part of spatial and transport planning, in order to provide the best possible knowledge for all balances. The right considers that a local authority/state contract should be established for cooperation on land and infrastructure development. At the same time, the right of objection of State authorities should be restricted so as not to unduly hamper housing and local freedom of action. Synergies and mutual influence need to be clarified in order to facilitate optimal road choices. I've concentrated on a little rift of a part of the new Right housing and land policy that is about the interface to transport challenges, but the entire housing and land policy must probably wait until the fall to have it put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e619	I want to start my speech by quoting the president of the Norwegian Architects Union, Kim Skaara. He says that homes create the framework for how we live our lives. Clearly, it cannot be said. Housing policy is one of the most important policy areas when we talk about fair distribution. It became clear when we had a hearing on the housing message. First, there was great excitement, second, in who joined the hearing, large, ranging from KS to different housing producers and real estate agents, trade unions, trade unions, representatives of disabled persons, young people, tenants and voluntary organisations working for drug users and people with poor advice. The feedback was unison: in the years that come, we have to build a lot, we have to build fast, and we have to build with quality. A significant population growth is expected in Norway over the next 10–20 years and there is a particular pressure around the larger cities. The challenges are greatest in the Oslo region. At the same time, we have seen in recent times that today we are facing a fundamental imbalance between supply and demand for housing. Both household and new dwelling prices have risen at a record pace. Ordinary young people who are going to establish themselves for the first time, and people with poor advice, are the ones who are hardest hit in such a situation. After the deregulation of the housing market by citizens in the mid-1980s and the conversion of the Husbank into a bank for those with special problems, only one road has passed: it has been built too little. Michael Tetzschner's posts here instead showed that this will continue if it becomes a bourgeois government. But when demand exceeds the offer, we know how it goes. Although there have been some signs that prices are being flattened out, the price level at an artificially high level is in many places. High housing prices and lack of suitable housing are, in other words, a fundamental welfare issue which, in the view of the majority, cannot be resolved by the market alone – it is a political responsibility. We need to build more dwellings in order to avoid increasing class divisions and to prevent young and weak groups from falling outside the housing market. The state has to play a role, but I'm going to say that the most important thing is what's happening, or not happening, in the municipalities. It is a political responsibility that the municipalities must take. Feedback from the hearing bodies was quite unambiguous at this point: Faster planning processes to provide more pre-regulated and ready-to-construct land are the main contribution of the authorities to increased housing construction. It's a municipal responsibility. Some municipalities are very active and facilitate and purchase areas for future development. They actively use the new planning and building law, contribute housing as an important part of the municipality's planning strategy, develop housing plans as a continuation of the community part of the municipal plan, drop it all into the area section of the municipal plan, and provide a planning tool to enable them to act quickly when opportunities allow. These are good municipalities to cooperate with, including for private developers. Others put themselves on a more passive line, one of which instead of being in the forefront, lies on the weather of a private landowner who finds that profit is good enough to start expansion. That's a bad recipe. It easily leads to shackled plan processes where conflicts dominate. Before the new Law on Planning and Building, it was not rare that more than five years old plans appeared, which had to be cancelled first, before you could start a new one. Over this period, the bourgeois parties have repeatedly tried to give the impression that it is the state and various public sector authorities that are responsible for the lack of housing, because too many and bursting objections lead to a paralysis of action by the municipalities in which they go unaccounted for. That's not quite true. The municipalities have a room for action in today's legislation that they should and must take, but it requires that there is a political will to do so. One example of such a lack of will – or ability – locally, I believe is the discussion we are constantly looking up here in the capital in the case of schools with a high proportion of foreign-language students. There are few instruments that will be more effective in solving this problem than active municipal housing planning and housing policy. In this message, the government indicates a direction for it. On the contrary, a small visit to Gjermund Hagesetter, which encroached on a number of special laws that local authorities have to take into account in their planning. It's tempting to return that challenge: Which of these considerations are we going to ignore? Is it fire and explosion protection? Is that a rascal? Is it prosthetic? I believe that the Progress Party will have problems replying to that. The solution to these problems is, rather, to put as many of the plan requirements of the Special Laws into the Planning and Building Act as possible, so that municipalities have the initiative and can involve the parties involved at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e640	A housing policy for all is a strong and good ambition. It's a housing policy for those who are young, and for those who are students. It's about a housing policy for families with children. It is a housing policy for the elderly, but also for those with disabilities — and not least for those with drug problems. Everyone has the right to have a good dwelling in – live both well and safely. There are many who work hard to get into the housing market, either because of a disability, unemployment or poor ability to pay, etc. That is why this government has already done a great deal in this area – to address the challenges facing individuals, especially in the housing market. The rate of housing construction has increased, but it needs to be significantly increased over the years to keep pace with the population growth we have. We have increased the housing allowance, which means that more than 50,000 households can receive support today. Start-up loans to several young people and others with difficulties in entering the housing market have also increased. More and more municipal dwellings are being built. There are now more than 100,000 municipal dwellings around Norway. For example, here in Oslo, where the need and pressure are greatest, the proportion of municipal housing goes down. This municipality is governed by, inter alia: Right. A new study by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research shows that there has been an increase in housing in the country since 2011. State aid has been granted in recent years to over 5,700 student homes. We build over 1,000 student homes every year. Under the bourgeois government, it was built at the top of 300 every year. It just shows that this government also contributes to better access for young people and students to the housing market. We have now passed five million people in this country. That's an increase of 10 pst. in the last 10 years. The population is growing. It will grow only more and more in the future in relation to other countries in Europe. We see that labour immigration is the main cause of this. This may lead to new needs and new requirements. At the beginning of 2012, there were more than 880,000 living alone in Norway and 626 000 households with only two persons. It also says something about the requirements we have with regard to the development we want to see in the future, and how housing should be designed. This growth comes mainly in cities and in the main regional centres. It challenges us in several areas, for example: in the case of soil protection. Of course, we must continue to be much more dense in central areas, but a fortification in central areas, such as Trondheim, Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, etc., will also challenge soil protection much more than before. We have to be open to use cultivated land, when we see that need will increase in the future. If we're going to make young children's families and young people live in the districts, young people from cities don't want to move out to Municipality-Norway to live in apartments. They want single homes, with more possibilities for their own household and more space for their own children. Then I think that soil protection can be a barrier in many contexts, but we have to look at the possibilities and find flexible solutions that make young people choose to live in districts rather than in urban areas. The public shall facilitate a good housing policy. It's about infrastructure like schools, kindergartens, public transport, etc. It's about having good regulatory plans that make it possible to create large and fine residential areas. It's about good neighbourhoods that are important for good public health. It's about the quality of houses, etc. The individual must choose where he/she will reside, but it is the responsibility of the public to facilitate people to choose where they want to live. Good housing policy is essential for good public health. The red-green government has in this big message pointed to areas of activity that will be important for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e663	Nearly 80 pst. the population of Norway lives in cities and agglomerations. That's where we have the greatest pressure, the highest prices and the problems. Housing and urban policy, housing and urban development are two aspects of the same issue. Last year, City Plan Manager Ellen de Vibe pointed out that in the Municipality of Oslo there is space for 130 000 new dwellings within today's construction zone – without touching the Marka border and with all green areas remaining. Now, the area is scarce, but even in our most densely populated city, it's not an area crisis. It's interesting to listen to the opposition figures here today. Instead of counting words and pointing the index finger at the County Council, we might be able to reflect on why housing policy is located in this committee. Of course, the role of municipalities is crucial because they control land use. The right, which today acts as a purely opposition party, is in fact responsible for housing policy in many of the municipalities where the pressure is greatest, for example. in Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger. The desolate land of Fornebu in the Right-steered Bærum is a monument to wretched land planning. That the local government in Bærum decides to build only 5,000 dwellings where there is room for many, many more, is not the fault of the state. From an area perspective, Oslo’s new small house plan is also a failure statement – a triumph for well-established villa owners at the expense of the next generation of entrepreneurs and the climate. The forecasting centre believes that there is a need for nearly 40000 dwellings each year in Norway, and 90pst. they must be built in the cities. Housing and transport must be planned collectively. Over the course of 20 years, Oslo and Akershus may have 350,000 new residents. Population growth will give two million more daily travels. For many reasons – it is about quality of living, time use, air pollution, climate and proximity to work – it is important that these trips are short. This applies to all Norwegian urban areas. That's where people live. Fortification is part of the answer. The potential for densification in so-called grey areas that lie fallow, asphalted or similar is great. Only in Oslo there may be space for 5,000 dwellings on vacant plots that are already regulated for residential purposes but are used for different reasons. Local authorities must follow up better and help to ensure that regulation for residential purposes leads to construction. It is not possible to build densely without building higher. It's about increasing from four floors to five floors, not building skyscrapers. A good mix of dwellings, shops and restaurants in the same area provides land and energy efficiency and reduced transport needs. We have to settle the idea that higher houses offer poor housing quality. It's not like that. Marienlyst is a good example. Oslo's densest populated area is also one of the most attractive, with some of the city's highest housing prices. Short of objections, since the theme has traveled. Oslo is the country where the state makes few objections to municipal regulation plans, but where the criticism of the state is strongest. It's a cross of thought that the parties that run in Oslo consistently point their index finger at the state rather than take responsibility locally. Objections do not always work as they should, but the law gives the municipalities the right to reject objections that have not been raised at the right time. Municipalities make little use of this right, the knowledge of the Law on Planning and Building is too poor. The main problem in today's housing market is that there are too few housing in press areas. The price increase is, among other things, a result of the fact that demand over time has been higher than the offer. It must be an overall political responsibility to ensure that there are plenty of housing built. In my view, housing policy requires comprehensive efforts across departments and levels of government. Municipalities must assume their responsibilities, but it is also about the need for the state to act more coherently and coordinatedly, to see transport and housing in the context, to simplify rules, and to complement the private market with the public construction of housing, social housing and student housing. Homecoming is a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e682	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e685	There have been comments about what a shopping message should be. I think the big message about housing is good, and it's not least nice that it comes here to Stortinget, because then we get a discussion about housing policy. Having a good place to live occupies a lot of people. A little bit about the difference between urban housing policy and rural housing policy: I come from Voss, a municipality with 15,000 inhabitants. I looked at FINN.NO that there is a project at Voss where new dwellings come in. At Voss, there is a pressure on young people to establish themselves. These were dwellings of 100 to 124 square meters, and the prices were from 3.9 million. NOK to SEK 5.1 million. kr. It's kind of not a home for the first time. Press areas are also outside the cities. There are challenges in cities, but also in the countryside. The fact that we have to build more dwellings, and that the housing supply needs to be built up, is one of the messages that naturally focus on. I also see that continuing to work on the rental-to-own project is important. In a period of life you may not have equity or the ability to get into the housing market, but you can eventually get into a position where you can own. It's a nice project to continue working on. As the Council of State said, production has increased slightly lately in terms of what is built by dwellings. Hopefully, we're on the right track. The government plays with the private and facilitates the construction of dwellings. In the case of municipal plans, they must be effective, and this must be predictable in view of those who want to build in the municipalities. When you come to a municipality and want to start a housing project, you have to meet a service, and then those who work at a technical level can help to do so. In particular, when the government now facilitates the simplification of construction, those working in the municipalities around the country can use their forces on what is important, the large housing projects, and not sit and stand on small, simple garages and build on houses and use their resources on it. A little comment on objections: I think there are 22 instances that may raise objections when it is to be built. I believe that objections are something we must have. The representative Lise Christoffersen was also involved. This applies to both transport, racial protection and other things that we think are important. Universal design is often a theme. The progress party likes to talk about it. When we see that the population over 80 years of age is tripled in Norway until 2060, and we want people to stay at home for a long time, not just disabled people, but the whole population – you have to be able to live in your home for the rest of your life. Finally, I would like to say that the investment in student housing is one of the most important things we do in the future, because it will also release housing for us others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e702	Many of the debate so far today has been about owning their housing, the ability to buy a housing for people who are reasonably resource-intensive. But it can also be smart to rent the dwelling for many, perhaps in a shorter or longer period of life. A well-functioning rental market is necessary for labour market mobility both in rural and urban areas. It is necessary in the building because one might want to move there simply to ‘prove’ before considering building its own dwelling – in many districts, unlike in the cities, the value of the dwelling does not grow in line with the costs – and in the cities because there are many in a city that is mobile and may want to move on. We want to ensure a more stable and secure building situation for those who rent the building. Thus, we strengthen the tenancy organisation and send a proposal to extend the minimum term of tenure from three to five years. The lease-to-ownership arrangement has also been taken up earlier in this room. It is an important measure to ensure that those who may not initially be able to afford to own it can do so over time. The basic loan of the house bank shall also be further developed in order to stimulate the construction of several rental properties. The House Bank is the most important instrument we have in housing policy. Those who sit at the bottom of the table, those who may have problems with both renting and owning, also need us to see them. Many people need help over a long period of time in order to survive in their own homes. For this reason, the government will put forward a broad strategy for housing-social work. One should gather the public effort, contribute to more supply for more people with difficulty, follow up those who need help to master the housing situation and everyday life and strengthen the housing-social professional environment. Five departments are involved in working with the Husbank and the other welfare Directorates in the municipal sector, and the voluntary sector is invited to develop the strategy, which will apply from next year. It is important for me to stress that the government is pursuing a housing policy for individuals, for society and for future generations. They're building us up today, it's gonna take a very long time. Only 1 pst. new buildings are built every year, there is a lot of existing building mass. At least we have to make sure that the new buildings we build are prepared for everyone to use them. There will be many more older people over time, and they will have to be able to live in their own homes as far as possible. Construction must also be rigged to meet climate challenges and energy consumption requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e713	We agree that it is a challenge here in the country that housing prices have increased relatively much in recent years. Although we see trends in flattening now, and that we are also being caught in Norway by the economic crisis, it is still a challenge. Prices have increased for many reasons, including: because we have had population growth, there has been a large labour force migration – a desired development – there has been a strong growth in real wages in the country, we have a historically low interest rate, which is also linked to an economic crisis in Europe, and we have too little new construction. It has persisted over time, but it is also partly an expression of the crisis that occurred in 2008 and that contributed to a strong slowdown in new construction. We seem to agree in this Chamber that market mechanisms play an important role in the housing market and that we should build them up. But it's a paradox that it's built so little. There is a lot of demand here, there are high prices and there is a liberal market – a small regulated market – but little is being built. So the question is, what do we do with that? Should we strengthen demand, or should we strengthen supply? For us, it is important to work on the offer page and contribute to further housing. What I hear the opposition parties are concerned about – if we ignore student homes – is strengthening the demand side. They are in receipt of the equity requirement and are committed to providing tax incentives to demand through the BSU – that is their response. I had been looking forward to this debate, because I thought we might get the answer to what has been a mantra from the Right and the Advance Party in the last two years, related to objections, because that's the explanation that there are so few homes built here in the country. What do we get? Well, we get a proposal to change part of the provision of the Planning and Building Act § 5-4, which is about formal legal and economic reasons for promoting objections. It is still not clear to me which objections will disappear. This provision is hardly used. Is the Progress Party and the Right concerned that we are not going to have a good enough plan? Is it going to be better for the inhabitants or for the inhabitants? Does the Right believe that we should not have quality assurance and that legal provisions in the plans are good enough and in line with the law? Are there the objections that are the problem? Is it the case that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the Road Administration should not be allowed to object to hopelessly expensive plans for the road projects they are going to carry out? The Vegvessen has occasion for this today, but it does not want the Progress Party and the Right to have them in the future. They have not clarified the question. There will be no less objection to this. That's a bad suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e724	The tone of this debate by central right and right-wing party representatives is surprisingly ironic, but not particularly impressive. Declaring a big message with the words ‘too late’ and ‘too small’ is a policy sport of low political difficulty. So what do the Right Party and the Advance Party want that's so liberating about getting everything taken care of? Well, as many people have been involved, it suggests that the main message is that state and municipality and everything public – and in and on their own banks – should abdicate, withdraw and let the market get freer. The principal words are ‘quantity’ and ‘speed’. We hear, among other things: little about public planning, sail about Øyvind Halleraker made a good attempt to mention planning, but that post was very brilliantly commented by Håkon Haugli. And especially parties such as the Right and the Advance Party, who are so concerned that there should be greater local maritime governance, should also be concerned with the use of local maritime governance in a competent professional and political way. Then it's just planning that's a keyword. You can't just ask for more power, you also have to show that you exercise power in a competent way. The main problem then relates to planning, too little competent offensive planning and not the objection issue. When the Keyword is planning, it is in particular a form of planning that we need more in the future, which should be competent and politically guided. It is the over-municipal/regional planning. I am surprised that the Progress Party and the Right – sea of the Right has said that they will use a two-three years to implement it – will remove the regional level now when we need good regional planning, not least in the context of social planning, and when the Keyword is housing and how to furniture the regional space, nor when the Keywords are transport and infrastructure. These parties will remove the political body which is to conduct the necessary political-driven democratic planning. It assumes that it is an ideal for the Progress Party and the Right as well, and not just that it should be run by officials and professionals. It is somewhat saddened by the two political parties that have as their main message that we should renovate on quality and on important – I would like to say – actually ethical values, such as, among other things. soil protection, the environment, universal design, etc. It is a defensive message and not an offensive message, as the Red-Greens have, and that is written in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e735	I thought this debate had gone about what I had believed. So there is no new signal that is going to build more dwellings in the future and thus get a better balance in the housing market than it is today. There was a lot of the same thing that has been repeated from the opposition. Governments indicated what one had done in the case of bus pay and privacy. It's good and good, but there won't be any more homes of this kind. I'm concerned that one will have the same challenges in the future, that one will not be able to do anything when it comes to building more dwellings faster. The representative Lise Christoffersen asked what law we wanted to simplify. Yes, we've signaled that several times before. I don't have to go through all these laws, but I want to refer to the Law on Planning and Building which is a significant obstacle to building housing – it goes slowly – and we have said that law we want to simplify and red tape. We have proposed this, and we are on it. We also think we can get a pass on this after the fall, and it's an important contribution to getting ahead. Another thing we've been looking at is what goes on energy efficiency. The demands that are made – this with a passive house level and all that – we are against that. We want to work so that one cannot set such minimum requirements as the government wants. As a result, housing prices and construction costs increase, resulting in fewer dwellings being built. The accessibility requirement for wheelchairs for the smallest dwellings is something that we also want to oppose. We also suggest that this type of requirement should not be imposed for a wheelchair to be fitted in dwellings below 55 square metres. We have the measures to simplify and red tape – and how we are going to get on with building construction in addition to this with infrastructure, etc. This can go very well, as long as we get a government change. Finally, I would like to signal that the Progress Party wants to support proposal No. Twenty from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e755	People with drug and mental disorders are overrepresented in the screening of the homeless. They are not only overrepresented, but we also know that people with drug and mental disorders are most often far from the housing market, but also that they are most often completely outside the housing market. When we had a hearing on the ‘Look at me!’ report, the secretary-general of the Blue Cross said it so clearly that you don’t have to take anyone for treatment if there isn’t a home ready when the treatment ends. Housing is alpha and omega in helping people who are struggling with drug problems. Russ users' own association, RIO, said this: Life has given me a living experience, it's living on the street. We have major challenges – important challenges – and it is important that we address them and think together. We also know that people with drug problems often have one main public experience, that is a breach of trust. Things that were promised don't happen. In the main message we are now receiving, it is good that attempts have been made with coordinating trustees, and that this was an important measure in the escalation plan for the drug field. It also states that the follow-up evaluation shows a high degree of achievement. My question is, what is it? What will the government do besides this? We have tried it – the evaluation shows that this is important, but what then? This message says nothing about it. Neither in the case of LARs, medically assisted rehabilitation, where we also know that learning to live is a crucial thing in rehabilitation. It's much easier to get drugs, the rehabilitation is the demanding part of the LAR. This is not followed up in this message either. Then, in the articles of the Council of State, I hear that there is going to be a strategy – to next year. The noise report was presented a year ago, it was submitted to the Health and Care Committee six months ago, and these people have to wait even longer to get a strategy. My question to the government is: When will there be new measures to help those we are now talking about – people with drug problems and mental disorders – so that they get a better housing situation and don't wait? How long must they wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e768	Having or having a permanent dwelling is an essential quality of life for most of us. In Håvålmål it says that "a little bo is better than nothing, home is every man's master." It's also the same today. It is a good tradition in Norway that it should be possible to own your own dwelling. Eight out of ten do that, but it must also be possible to rent. The right to you is superior. The big challenge is that the right to live still does not apply to everyone. Courts are socially unequally distributed. Of those who are currently outside the housing market and in the housing-free category, 60 have Pst. a drug problem, and 40 pst. have a mental illness. Families in low-income groups move more often than others, and they are more often in a state of fear. There are many municipalities that need more housing for people with mental retardation. The proportion of the younger homeless is increasing. For prison insertion, a safe situation and follow-up of the situation is a challenge. The housing situation of those who do not have the power to get settled must be our top priority. It is also an important health priority. That is why I am very pleased that a national strategy for housing-social work has been announced in the housing message. I notice that the government through the House Bank will in particular stimulate municipal housing for people with drug problems, mental disorders and double diagnosis. There is a great need for that. But building more buildings doesn't just help. We also need a system that ensures that we build the right housing, so that they get the most needed first. In the area of the press, it is quite central that municipalities take political responsibility and have a public policy on land. If the land policy is left to market, the experience is that housing for those with difficulty is losing the game. Instead, housing is built for high-cost groups – i.e. what pays the most. By 2040 there will be twice as many people over 67 in Norway. The message states that most of the homes for those to receive health care for the next 10 years are already built. This applies to the ordinary private housing stock, to the 40,000 sick homes and to the 50,000 housing units for care purposes. In Norway there are 240,000 low blocks with three to four levels, but without a lift installed. It's actually a problem. It is therefore important to bear in mind that we need not only to build more, but also to renew and rebuild existing houses. The centre party has long been a driver of financial support for the conversion of existing dwellings, so that the dwelling is possible to live in even after the loss of function. Support for the installation of a lift in blocks of housing is a case in point. Later today, we are going to debate the public health report. We've just adopted the care report. The housing notification is important, both for public health policy and for good care tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e781	There have been comments that the requirements we set to build a dwelling will make it so much more expensive. So I thought I'd say a little about innovation in the construction industry, being a little creative, thinking about new solutions and being "on." In terms of universal design, we heard that a gas ferry was to be built. And then you started to think early in the process that here it's going to be universally designed. And it became no more expensive than a ferry that was built without universal design. So it's about being ‘on’ and thinking creatively — and the industry is also involved. The electricity is a major part of our fixed expenditure in Norway. Then the Progress Party will want energy requirements to be the same as in 1997. Is it forward-looking? At least the government has bigger ambitions and thinks that people are going to bring down their electricity costs. In 2015, we want passive buildings to be built. We're going to build houses that have zero energy in 2020, and what's even more exciting is the plus houses, where you're going to produce more energy than you use. It almost seems incredible that you have to do it. But the committee was at Runpbo and got to see the project you are working on there. And the fact that people in the industry – across different sectors of the construction industry – work together to try to get construction that goes in plus energy is very exciting. I handed out a price last week to some architect students who had worked on such a project. The fact that those who are learning now are on this track, think like the government and are forward-looking – that this is the future – is very good. In the Building Communication, with Building21, we have proposed that the entire industry meet, make input to the government and facilitate a good strategy for innovation, knowledge and competence in the construction industry. When the cost of repairing construction damage is 2,6 pst. of what is used to invest in building new ones, it's too much. One challenge is that those who are trained – both plumbers, electricians and carpenters – are not so good at working together. And then, of course, it's a challenge that we sorely need foreign labour, but here there are language barriers. So coping with the construction fault challenges is also part of what the government is working for. In terms of quality in construction, one thing is the balance between efficient processes and quality – construction solutions are one thing, but then there are planning solutions, material use, energy use and outdoor areas. It's also part of the quality that we're going to have with us. When we're going to build as much as we're going to do in the future, we don't have to forget it. The Labour Party believes that it is also a political responsibility – the quality of the housing we build.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e792	It has been an interesting debate in many ways. Let me focus on three articles. Firstly, I would like to point out that the Council of State was not familiar with the analysis of the housing market by the Financial Supervisory Authority. It is quite interesting, and my advice to the Council of State is that she keeps her mind on the Financial Supervisory Authority – not just because it may be professionally interesting, but because the supervision allows action to follow words. They have knowledge of important framework conditions for housing financing, and it is clear that if they have a pessimistic future outlook, it is not surprising that they increase the requirement for newly established equity by 50 pst. from one day to the other. For the Council of State, it might be okay to follow up on those analyses, so she knows what's coming. The other thing I wanted to stop up a little, was the representative Haugli, who has made it some of a bravur number to wish for Bærum City Council, where he would obviously have gone for higher housing. Now Bærum is one of the communities that have doubled their number of inhabitants in a very short time, and according to my information they are helping to expand in a completely different order of magnitude than the figure that Haugli mentioned. Since he was also a visitor to Oslo, I can say that the starting figures for Oslo in 2011 and 2012 are 8 200 dwellings. That's about. 1000 more than the sum of the three other major cities in Norway — including the Labour Party’s own exhibition window, Trondheim. Then there are side points – if you first care about local political behaviour – that in Oslo Oslo SV and Oslo Arbeiderparti have systematically opted for lower housing options, in the sense of housing figures, than the city council has proposed to the city council. The last point in this round was the representative Sivertsen, who made a point that one of our proposals was a very simple change to the Planning and Building Act §5-4. There are often major changes in such laws — for example: as we have proposed: to cut the Appendix that the supervisory board almost gives itself the authority. In addition to its essential importance, it also stands today ‘or, for other reasons, is essential for the subject matter of the body concerned’. Then it's clear that it's tempting, if you think you're dealing with important things here in the world, to raise an objection, and that's also the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e810	The representative Bekkewold made me take the floor. He was sceptical about opening up scattered housing in the districts and wondering if the Center Party was not concerned about soil protection. I can confirm that the Center Party is very concerned about soil protection. But as far as the outlying areas are concerned, I would say that in many cases the possibility of scattered housing, and perhaps the redistribution of a measure or two with cultivated land, is crucial to maintaining food production. To take a little story from my own upbringing: Last time in the 1970s, I attended a study that warmed the community in pig-grown strips. It was me and a bunch of 30-year-olds who were worried about the population development in the area, and then I was the youngest resident. Would the branch be depopulated, was there anyone who would take over the farms? People didn't dare come back with kids, because there were no playmates in the village. Then there was a couple who wanted to move back, who wanted to build on the home farm, but who had no connection to agriculture. A few targets of cultivated soil were redispatched, so they each got their own plot. They moved back with families of children, and it made noble boys and girls for small farms in the branch actually dared to come. There were playmates, it was a social environment, and it was nice to come back to the village. In 1990 there were so many young people in this area that they actually assessed whether to start kindergarten. The young people came back and took over the small farms, they were in the sheep business. Either they lived off the farm, or they ran the land in addition to having other professions outside. I don't think this town would have gotten that development if we hadn't been willing to open up to scattered housing. We can't have the same housing policy in Oslo that we have in Holtålen. That's why I want to absolutely defend that we need to have the opportunity to spread housing in the districts in order to maintain the social environment, and that people would come back just to run the cultivated land so that the small farms don't get laid, and we're missing the important resource this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e823	Bærum municipal government is a place I have no desire to be. I addressed the conditions in the display window of Right Policy because the representative Tetzschner criticized the state for lack of effort in housing construction. But it is not the State that is responsible when Bærum City Council decides to build 5,000 dwellings on Fornebu, contrary to the Stortingen assumptions when the main airport was moved, which suggested a housing potential there of 12,000. It is also not the responsibility of the state that Bærum municipal government will not continue along the Kolsåsbanen. After massive state investment, it could perhaps be expected that Bærum was conscious of its responsibility and, as a repeat, helped to give more people a place to live, climate-friendly and good in the vicinity of the Colza Railway. No, this does not want Bærum municipal government for the sake of existing living environment. Thus, the consideration of well-established villa owners who already live along the track is heavier than the consideration of those who are going to establish themselves in the municipality. It is also not the responsibility of the State that Bærum municipal government decides to increase the requirement for plot size in the municipality, so that people who already have land must have more space at their disposal to build dwellings. The representative, Tetzschner, is also going into some numbers from Oslo. In 2011, the forecasting centre suggested a housing demand of 7 000 dwellings in Oslo. The municipality's own measure was 4,500 regulated dwellings, and it was built 1,846. It would be nice if the representative instead of wishing me to go to Bærum City Council, wanted to go to Oslo City Council, because there's obviously a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e836	I took the floor because the Progress Party has been concerned about, as the representative Hageseter said, red tape of the Planning and Building Act. I am a little uncertain about what is contained in the term ‘to debureaucratise’ a law. But it must mean that the Progress Party is pleased with the measures announced by the government in the communication, which will make the planning and construction process more efficient, among other things. by assessing the time spent in the planning dossiers, the use of order requirements, facilitating the management of minor regulatory plans and looking at the role of private actors in spatial planning. This should enable the representative to say that are good, concrete actions, as the representative has requested. In addition, the representative is well aware that we have notified a review of the opposition institute. We will consider the means available there to ensure that the law is actually used as the intention is, because we in the committee agree that the law should be applied according to the intentions. We don't need a prescription for that, but we'll take it into consideration. There are some of the measures the Progress Party is calling for. The representative Tetzschner obviously cannot have heard what I said in view of the proposal to amend § 5-4 of the Planning and Building Act, which the Right Party and the Advance Party have promoted. My point was that in the last two years the bourgeois parties have spent a lot of time explaining the lack of housing because there are objections that are the problem. Then they choose, when we finally come to the matter where it is relevant to promote such a proposal, to promote a proposal that has almost zero significance, because one chooses to remove a provision that is very little used and that is about formal requirements such as: are the maps good enough? It is the maps that form the basis for the planning of the developers. In my opinion, it cannot promote housing, it must prevent it. One chooses to tackle the provision that ensures that the legal provisions are good enough. If we were to be a tabloid, we would say that it's putting legal certainty at risk. And then you choose to go about the provision that is used as a basis for Vegvesen when a municipality, for example. regulates a solution of the road that will be very low-profitable, very low-value socio-economic profitability and wasted on society's resources. The question then arises again: What objections are there that disappear? How will this help to make housing easier? It still doesn't have the Right and Advance Party black on it. In conclusion, the representative of Halleraker called for cooperation between governmental bodies and the municipalities. I am pleased with the representative Halleraker that the government has announced that new planning guidelines will be drawn up which deal with both residence, area and transport planning, based on the national policy guidelines we have, in addition to – as the representative requested – clearer guidance on how housing should be built. Of course, it will come in the next document on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e849	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e852	I think the representative Sivertsen must have misunderstood, because we're not saying that objections are all problems' mother, but that's one of them. Targeting objections to what is important is what is in our proposal. The second was for the representative Haugli, and it describes the message: The building and housing figures are the result of the interaction – or lack of interaction – between the state level, which is responsible for the planning, regional planning and local government, and of course also the market. A lot of builders think it's unsafe signals and doesn't get started. It cannot be over-tested. When myths are spread that there are low housing levels in Oslo, they have been thoroughly refuted. Furthermore, Mr. Haugli's suggestion that I should take a new tower in Oslo City Council is not very topical. I think I've done my civic duty after sitting there for 24 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e861	The representative, Gjermund Hagesetter, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e865	The reason I take the floor now was direct questions and calls from the representative Eirik Sivertsen. He pointed out that since the Progress Party is concerned with efficiency, red tape and simplification, we had to be very happy that the government is now saying that this is something they will consider. Well, we in the Progress Party are not so very impressed with great words and phrases. The housing message is on 113 pages, and there are 98 issues that you need to figure out in one way or another. The government has had eight years to simplify. Coming after eight years and saying that one should now consider simplifying, my Progress Party is far too bad. This is where it has to be done. We have more than enough fine words and fine wording. The buyers and the bus owners are now beginning to feel that something is happening — especially the young people who have problems getting into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e874	The representative, Aksel Hagen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e877	I had a fellow sensor at the University of Lillehammer, who said in a complaint, "If I'm in doubt, I'm reading the report." I believe that the Progress Party and the Right should be so in doubt when the topic is housing policy that they read the Storing Message and that they also follow on, among other things. the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, has made a very concrete statement of objections. Once we have had such a form of debate that we ridicule the fact that the Council of State does not follow the Financial Supervisory Board, it might be interesting to ridicule the equivalent again – that one should follow up on the concrete and current policy of government for the time being: simplification of the Planning and Building Act, construction processing and planning, and not least as regards objections and more offensive planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e886	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e900	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e909	The large population survey shows that 96 pst. of the population is happy to live in Norway. That shows what we all know, that we who live in Norway are incredibly lucky. We live in a good country, in a safe welfare society, where most of it works. It is a result of conscious political choices, made by wise politicians who would level out, raise the living conditions of the population and not increase the differences between people. The presentation of the municipal proposal is part of the machinery of this welfare society. Municipalities and county councils are given money, but they have to do the job themselves. During the anniversary of the voting rights last week, the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, said that the welfare state is the best friend of women. Perhaps the municipality is also the best friend of the welfare state. It is a friend who performs many of the services we associate with a welfare state and includes a good safety net for individuals. It provides safety for childcare facilities so that parents can be safe in their professional life and contribute to the community. The welfare state provides school and education. Furthermore, we have a public health service that does not make a difference to the patient according to the size of the wallet. We have elderly care and social arrangements for those who need it. Employment is regulated and, through active tripartite cooperation, both the authorities, employers and employees have the opportunity to find agreed solutions that balance all considerations. The Labour Environment Act is a married child of the welfare community. The municipal bill shows that there is also an in-text growth in 2014 in Kommune-Norway. Real growth will be between 6 and 6.5 billion. kr. Between 5 and 5,5 billion. SEK of which is free income. Of this growth, it's set by 1 billion. kr to county councils, where €0.5 billion. kr shall go to the county roads. Many were skeptical when a lot of national roads were transferred to the county municipalities, not least the county politicians themselves. Now we see the contours of good veggies, which are in full swing with maintenance and upgrade. I believe that the county councils are better owners than the state. They're closer, and they can give you a better priority. It's not an easy task, but here the county councils have started well. In the past, it has been reported that the cost keys of the county municipalities were to be reviewed in 2014. This is postponed for one year and presented in the Municipal Proposition for 2015. A solid basis remains to be established for collective routes, in particular the boat and ferry sectors. For municipalities, a review of the cost keys is provided in the municipality proposal for 2016. The notified growth for 2014 provides room for still high levels of welfare services in municipalities. We know that local government expenditure on demographics and pensions is high. That is why more resources must be allocated to the sector. There is broad consensus in the Committee that good and predictable framework conditions for the municipal sector are important for the country, for the local communities and for the individual population, and that Norwegian municipalities are in a special position compared to municipalities in most European countries. 67 B.C.E. kr has been added since the red-green took over in 2005. That's not a small sum. This sum has, among other things: gave us 72 000 more employees in the municipalities since 2005. There are employees who work in schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly, and form the rootstock of the Norwegian welfare state. In recent years, we have had a massive expansion of kindergarten provision in Norway — some of the kindergarten revolution. Let me do a bunch of numbers that illustrate it in a good way: The number of children in kindergarten has increased by 62 600 between 2005 and 2012 — an increase of 28 pst. In 2005, there were 76 pst. of all children aged 1 to 5 years in kindergarten. Now 9 out of 10 children in kindergarten. The number of annual work in kindergartens has increased by 45 pst. since 2005. Once we know how much we've gotten out of 67 billion. kr, it can be held up against the tax increases of the Right and the Advance Party, which amount to between 25 and 100 billion. kr. This money shall not be used for welfare production, but must be withdrawn from the State budget. Perhaps there is something to think about for the rapporteurs from the Right or the Progress Party who are struggling to get the budget together? We should not underestimate that some municipalities are striving to balance the economy, but over the last eight years there has been enormous activity in Norwegian municipalities. There will be many new schools, hospitals and not least kindergartens. But there's also a high debt of high expansion activity. Many buildings are rehabilitated and new schools and kindergartens open. Nevertheless, the financial situation of municipalities is not out of control, as some try to give the impression. A good indicator of that is ROBEK, the register for municipalities in financial imbalances. In May 2005, after nearly four years with the Bondevik II government, 116 municipalities were in ROBEK. In May 2009, after almost four years of red-green government, 42 municipalities were in the register, and it is a formidable turnaround. Since then, the number has been stable low, and now there are 49 municipalities in ROBEK. I myself was the rapporteur while Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. I do not like any of my former colleagues, nor do those who are rapporteurs now, no matter which party they represent. It's going to be a difference for Norwegian municipalities if we get a dark blue rule consisting of the Right and Advance Party. The reason is that the Right Party and the Advance Party want less redistribution of tax revenue than the Government Parties. This will have major consequences for municipalities with low tax revenues. During this four-year period, the red-green government has further redistributed tax revenues so that tax-weak municipalities are transferred more from tax-intensive municipalities. The reason for this is to balance the differences between municipalities. Here, the Working Party and the Red-Green Government are completely different from the Right and Advance Party. We want smaller differences between municipalities, not larger. The balancing of tax revenues is a choice based on ideology and a desire for the direction in which the society of Norway will evolve. We want a society with little differences. Over eight years with a red-green government, we have made changes to the municipal income system to ensure a fairer distribution. We have done so in an even better way to ensure the possibility of equivalent services across the country. We know that there are huge differences between municipalities in tax revenue. Differences in tax income give rise to differences in the provision of services. Therefore, cohesion is now greater than in 2005. Tax-deprived municipalities have received more, tax-reduced. It's going to be a more even distribution of that. The right has voted against these cohesion proposals. Compared to today's income balance, the Right wants a change that will reduce the number of those with the least and increase the number of those with the most. Calculations made by the Ministry of Local Affairs of the Right proposal show that as much as 90 pst. by Norwegian municipalities will lose weight on such a conversion. Some medium-sized and large municipalities will lose million amounts, which will obviously affect the well-being of these municipalities, regardless of whether the change occurs within one, three or five years. Right-wing complaints that the Ministry of Local Affairs' calculations are not correct, but I have not yet seen any own calculations from the Right that suggest anything other than that the consequences of the Right Policy are as the calculations show. Maybe now, just before the election, it's time that the Right shows their cards to Norwegian municipalities and not least to the voters, so that they know the consequences of their choices. It's really time they didn't just say that calculations done by the ministry are not right. Well, then they have to come up with the consequences of what their policies will lead to. Therefore, the choice in the harvest will be a choice between tax cuts or strengthening the local economy, between fair distribution or more to those who have the most already. We who represent the red-green government look forward to the election. We're looking forward to it, and we're proud of what we've done for Norwegian municipalities in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e966	I would first like to say that the Progress Party is making up its alternative state budget, where we have tax credits – where we have room for it – without cutting off the activity in the municipalities. On the contrary, we increase transfers to the municipalities. On the other hand, we're cutting red tape. So we say instead that a penny in tax bills is a penny smaller to bureaucracy. The working party's leader for the fraction boasts that developments in municipalities are at a high level, that there has been a large increase. We get feedback from the municipalities that that's not how they experience it. In any case, the local government debt is increasing dramatically. The current value has never been as high as the current value, and it seems to be increasing at an accelerating rate, as well as at the maintenance run, for example. On the municipal road, increasing. Then my question is: isn't the Labour Party representative concerned when both debt and maintenance are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e975	In fact, as far as the economic structure of the Advance Party is concerned, none of the other parties represented in the Storting are associated with it. It seems that they have arrangements in this area and a perception of the reality that no one else has. The promotion party is in favour of price financing. This leads to more state bureaucracy and more state governance and not more local democracy. As far as the development of debt in the sector is concerned, as I said in my statement, it is high. It comes from high investment. And that's the responsibility of the municipalities. But at the same time, the debt is composed of several things. There are borrowings to be passed on to individuals or to companies, there are interest-rate compensation schemes for school and church buildings, and there are services related to the VAR area, i.e. water and sewerage. But in total, debt has increased due to activity in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e982	There are some themes that have been recurring throughout this period and where at least the opposition parties have challenged the government parties. One of these repetitions is the government's abduction with, among other things, to submit a proposal for an individual right to user-controlled personal assistance. This has been a recurring issue throughout this period, and still you haven't put this in place. What makes the Workers' Party refuse to introduce this important right-holding, such as: leads people with disabilities to become more head of their own lives. What is the reason why the Labour Party, after eight years in the government, still refuses to introduce such a right?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e987	BPA, user-led personal assistance, to be provided as an offer to those in need, is part of the welfare offer. It is right, as the representative Becquerad says, that it is an important area. The starting point for municipalities to provide services to their citizens is that they should be given money to them so that they can increase the provision of welfare. We've done it in a lot of areas by increasing the funds for the municipalities. In the case of BPA, there's been a lot of discussion about how far to go and how to do it. I don't know if the matter is now being consulted – I'm a little unsure about it, because it's in another committee – but this is an area where the government has been concerned and which we'll come back to, because we want these users to get these services too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e994	I noticed that the case rapporteur was looking forward to the election campaign, and that she criticised the lack of money under the previous civil government, in the years 2001–2005. I might say that the action space in the Norwegian economy has increased in the period after that, and it would have benefited any government. But if you're going to use a whole election campaign to criticize an abducted government, you might not have the attention in the right place. In the case of the so-called starvation feeding, if you see these periods as a whole, it turns out that there has been a slightly larger percentage of growth for the municipalities under the red-green government. It's 2.55 pst. on average per year, against the 2,25 pst of the bourgeois government. My question to the case rapporteur is: Does she really think that this difference, at 0.3 pst. on average, over so many years defender [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1003	Yes, I'm looking forward to election fighting, and I'm recording that the other red-green parties also do. And it's great that the opposition does too, because then it gets exciting. What the election campaign is going to be about is that it's going to be a direction choice. We want different things. We want something other than the opposition, and we've shown that in terms of the municipalities. We have contributed money that has given activity. There have been many more employees in the municipalities that provide services, so that every resident around the country can actually feel on their own body that yes, over the last eight years, it has become better to live in my municipality, I have got better services, I have a better life. That's our starting point. We don't want to give money to taxpayers, we say no to it. We want a further improved service offer in Norwegian municipalities. That's the difference between us and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1010	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1014	The progress party has a different municipal policy starting point than the government and the red-green parties. The core of our municipal policy is to put man in the center. The municipality is for the inhabitants and not the other way around. The public has a superior responsibility to control quality and to finance the basic welfare services provided, but does not need to take on tasks that can be done just as well or better by private individuals. We also want freedom of choice for the inhabitants. That's why we have another funding system. We want government-led funding for basic welfare services in the municipalities. This means that if there is a need, this triggers funding. It means that it doesn't matter whether a cage in a poor or rich municipality, the services should be funded by the state. This means that a need is identified and that funding is provided. This is the same way that kindergartens in the past were funded by the number of children in kindergarten and the number of hours. Tasks taken on by municipalities in addition to these basic welfare services are mainly financed by local taxation. But until we get this through, of course, we're starting from today's framework licensing system and the challenges it brings. It is clear that the frameworks signaled by the government through the 2014 municipal bill are far from adequate in relation to the challenges facing the municipalities. The government boasts that the arrangement in the municipal bill 2014 gives a real growth of between 6 and 6.5 billion. kr in transfers to municipalities. It was also the spokesperson for the matter. It can give the impression that the real, the real, actual growth of the municipalities is at that size. It's wrong, of course. And why is that wrong? Yes, in that sum, pay and price growth are largely taken into account. One has not taken into account the additional costs incurred by real population growth. History shows that one has always budgeted with lower population growth. What is happening to the ageing population and increasing costs due to it, increasing pension costs and increasing costs due to new imposed tasks that are not financed by the country is also not taken into account. This means that municipalities have no room to increase and improve service provision. KS also says that one will be able to keep it at the same level. We mean that the maintenance run and the increased tasks in the municipalities mean that we are forced to strengthen the municipalities, and that's what we're going to do. We are in favour of strengthening the municipal framework next year by 2.5 billion. kr more, and the following breakdown shall be made: 1 billion. kr for municipal fire services, SEK 0.5 billion. kr shall repel the base ball, 0,5 billion. kr shall be returned to municipal care and psychiatry and €0.5 billion. kr shall pay tribute to the Reform of Cooperation. As I was inside, many things go wrong in Kommune-Noreg. The local authorities are struggling with the poor economy. The number of municipalities on the ROBEK list has also increased in the last two years. The debt burden of the municipalities has more than doubled in the eight years of government power. New tasks are imposed on the municipalities, such as the Cooperation Reform, without adequate means being followed. This has led – and will result – to significant challenges for local authorities in the future. The party of progress fears that a already strenuous economy in many municipalities could get worse next year. This means that the huge numbers of municipalities who are lagging behind experience the rehabilitation of municipal building and infrastructure resulting from a strenuous municipal economy are not being reduced, but too many municipalities can increase further. There is something the Progress Party is concerned about, and there should also be more concerns. We have been promised that we will have an elderly care as skin. Well, when we talk to local municipal politicians, that's not the image you get. When you look up in the press, it's not the image you get. To get a decent and good care for the elderly, there is a need for action and not just election fighting. It seems to me that one of the richest countries in the world still has a steady news coverage in the media about major problems and misery in its old-age care system. We think that this situation is totally unacceptable. Unfortunately, it is probably a natural consequence that we have a socialist system that rationalises the provision of elderly care based on framework promises and with economic frameworks that are too small — and that can be freely used for other purposes for the care of caring for the elderly. When it's not automatically set up with resources for a growing need and an ageing population, queues, waiting lists and higher thresholds for help result in many places. Of course, even if local authorities need more money, it is also crucial that local authorities use the money to maximise the well-being of each krona. Of course, it is important here to facilitate competition – internal competition and external competition – and that is because competition is healthy. Competitive exposure is not the same as privatisation, but competition stimulates people to do their best. Fortunately, some municipalities are showing way in this area. Austevoll municipality was a municipality that was on the ROBEK list when the Progress Party took over control in 2003 – 10 years ago. Today, Austevoll is out of the ROBEK list, has paid down the deficit and delivers good services to the inhabitants. Recently, the provision of care and care in Austevoll was also put on hold. A based release of 60 pst. on quality and 40 pst. at the price. Today, the elderly in Austevoll can eat whenever they want, and they can choose between fish and meat for dinner every day. We believe that those who have built this country will enjoy as much freedom of choice as they do in Austevoll. We also have a budgeting system/accounting system that is obsolete and covers the real economic situation of municipalities. We don't have a depreciation here, but a deduction is a cost. If we had changed it to depreciation rules and got it in as a cost, it would have given most municipalities red numbers. So this is the reality. We mean that the accounting system that we have today only covers the actual ratios. We now have a municipal structure consisting of 428 municipalities. They should be reduced, preferably to under 100 municipalities. Therefore, it must first of all be ensured that municipalities that merge do not lose out financially on it, as they do today. It's getting a little better. One gets full compensation for 15 years, plus escalating over five years, but still today's system is not good enough to get ahead of the municipal councils. Fewer municipalities would also mean that we could complete the county as a private political and administrative level, and freed additional billions of dollars that could have been used for basic welfare services in the municipalities. Fewer and larger municipalities would make it easier to launch competition and also to apply modern welfare technologies and provide quality services to citizens. The Progress Party wants robust and effective municipalities to solve their tasks for the benefit of the inhabitants. That's why it's both short-term and long-term. The short term we're in favour of here is to add more money to the municipalities, so that you can ensure good services. The long-term aim is to change the accounting system, to facilitate and stimulate healthy competition and to provide leadership from Stortinget with fewer and larger and more robust municipalities. More and better well-being for each krone the municipalities dispose of is important, and we have to work for that. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1052	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Thus, all the suggestions included in the setting have been recorded. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1057	It's interesting to read the setting, where the Progress Party presents how the party will finance the welfare services in the municipalities, and also to hear it from the pulpit. The solution is state-funded unit prices for kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly — perhaps in other areas as well. Financial responsibility shall be removed from those closest to the municipality and transferred to the State. Local democracy shall be replaced by bureaucracy. But what's interesting is that the Right has already canceled this policy. Although it was going to go so wrong that the Progress Party will be in government until the fall, they will not be able to implement what the Advance Party writes in the setting, or what the Hagesetter is talking about in his post, because the Right says no. What does Hagesetter think about the fact that, once again, in the municipal area, too, veto the policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1062	This question is a recurring issue when questions arise to the Progress Party, namely how needs-driven government funding works. Then I just want to say that it was the kind of kindergarten that worked before. Then a government funding was provided based on the number of children in kindergarten and the number of hours in kindergarten. Now this has changed, so that one receives funding to the municipalities in frameworks based on the level of education of the mothers. Where resource-requiring services are involved, it is also currently financed by government funding, if necessary. When it comes to the government platform – I record that Ingalill Olsen assumes that there will be a government shift to the house, and that is good – I do not go out and say what we should prioritise, and what we should put at the top and bottom of the priority list. But anyway, the bigger the Progress Party becomes, the more likely it is that we get an impact on our funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1071	Clearly, there is a crisis in Kommune-Norway. But my question doesn't go on, it goes on the financing line. I'm going to admit that I'm against it, but I'm actually most curious about how it's going to be taboos for local maritime government and at the same time advocate such a funding system. Is it the local politicians who are going to assess the need for some before it possibly triggers government funding, or is it a trades union bureaucracy that's going to sit there, or is it so that you can take a phone directly to the Ministry of Finance and say that now I'm ready to take money? There is no SV and the red-green ones alone, even the civil partners believe that there is a need for clarification here, to say the least. It doesn't make the image clearer when they add another 2.5 billion. kr that is now coming, should actually be earmarked – because it proposes the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1076	The fact that we are earmarking funds is, of course, moving towards need-driven government funding. We want it in some areas that we want to prioritise in Kommune-Noreg. What I said was that before you get a need-driven government funding, you have to realize that there is a need, and then there is a professional assessment that needs to be carried out. There is also a long way to go today when you are going to have a sick place, home care, etc. But the point here is the need, and it's important to take into account here that the Progress Party doesn't put bureaucrats and local politicians in the center, we see the inhabitants of the municipalities in the center. It is possible that there may be some bureaucrats out there who do not think this is a good solution, but the inhabitants will automatically meet the needs that have been said after a professional assessment that they need to be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1081	In my view, kindergarten, care for the elderly and school are basic tasks for the municipal sector. I lived a long time in the error that there was actually a cross-political consensus about it, but after having seen the interview with Siv Jensen on the evening news on May 6th, I was very in doubt about what really are the basic tasks for the municipalities. The answer to questions about the arrangement of the Advance Party for the municipal sector was: My number is more complex, because we want to move some of the most expensive tasks for municipalities from municipality to state. When care and school leave off as a municipal commitment, there will be more money left to solve the very basic problems. If these are not basic tasks for the local government sector, what is it? Is it getting more time to donate and making sure that there is more alcohol available at the local shops that are the basic tasks for municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1090	I would first like to say that my name is not Siv Jensen – my name is Gjermund Hagesetter, so questions related to the quotation you refer to may be taken on another occasion. But the point here is that we are in favour of another funding system, which I have explained over and over again, i.e. a need-driven state funding of basic welfare services in the municipalities. So in the past, babysitting was funded this way. I haven't heard any local politicians say they lost local power and local democracy disappeared when they had government funding. Now this goes into the frame permissions. It's the exact same cost with kindergartens, but there's no automatic funding. So this is a good system, and we're going to show this, hopefully, after the election, that we're getting a pass for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1095	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1098	Unfortunately, the relationship between the State and the municipality is characterised by some mutual mistrust. I think that is a relationship any political leadership must take on the deepest seriousness, no matter how the outcome of the election falls out. It is true that the uncoordinated sectoral policies of the State have transferred many of their ambitions to the municipalities, and then they have considered the municipalities as implementing bodies for State sector policy rather than entrusting more delegated powers to the municipalities, so that they could prioritise between legitimate needs but closer to the population they are set to serve. I think the state has also missed many opportunities to use the local insights of a local government, and the proximity it has to the local conditions, precisely to get help to prioritize the overall social resources spent on, for example. health and well-being. In the past, this government has received praise for further liquidation of the earmarked grants. But then new barriers have emerged for local self-government, which has helped to legalise this social sector by using law and regulation. You push the municipalities into special ways of solving these problems. It gives less flexibility. And then you give rights directly to the users. All users who fulfil certain objective criteria and report to the municipality will then release resources, no matter what the local government may think of it. We also see how we have little understanding that very many services happen in a normal job, where it is actually quite important that management is given the opportunity to manage and use their resources as best as possible. However, there has also been the temptation to impose on the individual nursery or institution or whatever it may be, detailed provisions on how to operate, such as: detailed crew standards. Local communities should have greater freedom than today to make decisions that relate to themselves, and the local People's Government at its best would ensure proximity between elected representatives and voters and actually built up under the interest of politics and democracy. Another problem is that for voters, it seems rather unclear who is responsible for a service. Here I can say that, in addition to the uncoordinated public sector interests, many municipal politicians also know how to participate in the sport called ‘every time they want to do something new, the state has to assume co-responsibility’. This makes it a patchwork of fissures, where the state of course chooses how long it will be, and then the municipalities are left with unfulfilled expectations. You can do more to get a clearer division of labour, so that the voters in a municipality know which politicians they should be responsible for if there is a failure in the offer. We believe that the ability of the municipal sector to solve its tasks is weakened by strong state-led, detailed governance. We also see that municipal expenditure has increased more in recent years than has been the result of money. The policy of today's government is that municipalities receive grants for the first year a measure is introduced, but then steps down or remove the grant. This practice implies that the municipalities are entrusted with tasks that are not fully financed. This is confirmed in one of the innumerable reports that KS has had in its research and development project under the title ‘Who takes the bill?’, including: Childcare reform and its funding were evaluated. At the same time, we see further challenges in the implementation of the Cooperation Reform and its financing. During today's government, municipalities and county councils have been given more and more statutory tasks without funding. This means that municipalities must either cut off their other responsibilities or, if they are not able to do so, take up loans. It is true that the local government sector has been subject to a significant build-up of debt under this government, which is quite alarming, and KS has calculated the debt, if corrective measures are not taken and the price is corrected, to make 75 pst. annual operational expenditure. The need for freedom for Kommune-Norge must also mean freedom from underfunded reforms. In fact, it is the government that is the greatest threat to the freedom of municipalities through this lack of funding and promises on behalf of local politicians that puts them in an impossible situation of expectations, because they are unable to deliver. I think we can establish that the freedom to prioritise in line with local policy needs has been systematically weakened. However, the most important freedom for municipalities is the freedom to provide good enough services and freedom for local adaptation. The main threat to this freedom is that there are no resources to develop and maintain skills-based, stable, locally adapted services in the areas considered to be the most central ones: school, health and care. Of course, a good deal can be achieved through a community reform. The cost of administrative staff can be reduced if you have a slightly larger population to allocate administrative costs to. But those who believe that organisational changes will be enough to restore the lack of trust in Kommune-Norway will probably be too optimistic. It is also a problem that municipal autonomy is legally weak. What I'm thinking about is that in many contexts, municipalities and states see differences in both the method of calculation and legal conflicts. Today, conflict resolution works so that the state decides as it pleases, usually after extensive use of time. We see the need to establish an independent dispute settlement body between the State and the municipality. In fact, it was also foreseen when Norway ratified the European Council Convention on Local Self-Government in 1989. So we have a universal obligation to give municipalities the means to try their case in a discussion or conflict with state agencies of an unhidden body. We had also looked forward to the establishment of such an independent dispute resolution body, and I refer to the proposal for a representative, Document 8:32 for 2011–2012, to introduce such a dispute resolution body. To sum up, the right wants more power for municipal elected, less power for state governments. When the municipalities were deprived of income from corporation tax, they lost an important incentive for local economic development and value creation. We want the municipalities to retain a greater proportion of their own income through corporate tax, as it will trigger interest in facilitating local business. The red-green option is to treat municipalities more and more as welfare-state clients, and then it's no wonder they want to take that role. They will then spend more of their time influencing state budgets and convincing them of their lack of opportunities, rather than seeing the opportunities that are local to stimulate business and bring growth in individual municipalities. Therefore, the Right wants a comprehensive review of the income system of the local government sector, changes to ensure and stimulate positive developments in the income of municipalities. The aim is to build up under local self-government by retaining a share of corporation tax and a greater share of own tax revenue. This should, of course, take account of the income guarantee scheme, which guarantees that municipalities will always have a time horizon to adapt to new regimes and new income rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1139	Right wants another distribution of the tax revenue to the municipalities. That's what Tetzschner said right now at the end of his article. They have called for and voted for proposals throughout this ageing period that will lead to greater differences in the income levels of municipalities. Large differences in the level of income result in greater differences in the welfare provision of the population. The right writes in their comments that they want municipalities to retain ‘a greater share of their tax revenue’. Today, the proportion of municipal income derived from taxes is 40 pst. Does what Right wants, at least half, mean at least 50 pst, as the Right has meant over this entire magnification period? Means 45 pst.? Or maybe 55 pst.? Can the representative Tetzschner specify what percentage ‘major part’ means?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1146	A very good goal would have been to reach 50 pst., because at the moment you get 50 pst. Of your own income, you realize that you need to spend most of your time planning how to promote growth and growth conditions, including: for business in your own municipality, and become a little less concerned with the contact work involved in triggering state transfers. Ideally, it should be even higher, but it is clear that there is also a gradual familiarisation here, so municipalities are given the opportunity to shift focus from being a client to facilitating business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1151	Two good advice/questions: Firstly, I think the Right – the sooner the better – should draw the municipal map, which not only shows which municipalities will win with the new approach, but also which municipalities will lose, so that they can prepare themselves for the years before the elections for which they are going to step down their activity. I expect Tetzschner to agree with that, but if he also has the names of some municipalities that are already going to adapt to the new, slightly negative reality, we can take it now. Secondly, I think Tetzschner has a very good local democratic post. I believe that the Right needs a similar article on the regional level, because if the Right is sincerely concerned with social development from below, they will also need similar reflections and considerations on organisation at regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1160	Thank you for the rose that applied to what the post was supposed to be, namely a belief in local self-government. But we cannot close our eyes to the fact that the county has never had legitimacy among the voters. People perceive that there are two political levels that are responsible in the country. It is their primary municipality – to which they have a more direct relationship, because they know the rapporteur and associate with local politicians in their everyday lives – and that is the state. We want to strengthen the municipalities as robust units, and we want clear responsibilities where the state should also take its share of responsibility. So to the first part of the question, the distribution between transferring income to a municipality, compared with what one is able to generate from own tax revenue, does not depend on the total amount of money available — and then, of course, the interests of the inhabitants will weigh more heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1167	A little while ago, we dealt with the district and regional message here in the hall. It was then widely agreed that the aim was to maintain the population structure in Norway. The right-hand tax regime is about redistributing from the approximately 90 pst. The poorest municipalities of the approximately 10 pst. richest municipalities. The richest municipalities are located in the central districts of Norway. How can the objective of maintaining the population structure be achieved if funds are redistributed from – and starving feeders – those municipalities that need the most regional development and the most dredging assistance to get jobs into place, to the strong municipalities in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1176	I think the questioner underestimates that growing also requires municipal investment. That is why we also want growth municipalities to be more satisfied when they have to invest in order to receive an increasing population. Otherwise, we have the general instrument on the State side, which is to help with the development of nutrition in poorer areas. The transfer system between municipalities is not the most appropriate and targeted way of ensuring settlement in the country. We think it's self-esteem that local politicians understand that there are local tax revenues they have more than they do today. It will also lead them to discover a couple of other things that the red-greens don't have in the vocabulary right now, and that's that you can get more out of the tax income you'll get after all, if you can do re-priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1185	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1188	This is a feature that will be considered theme-wide. This confirms the importance of municipalities and county councils in the Norwegian welfare state, especially when they interact well with state, business and civil society, and it makes municipalities and county municipalities most often. Various studies show us that people – not least the users of all the services provided by municipalities and county councils – are initially very pleased. For us politicians, both in position and in opposition, it is hard to balance wisely between being content and praising all the good work being done, while at the same time one should both power and dry to see what is not working, and at the next time also sailfully both power and dry to do something about it. For in dynamic times, in dynamic societies like ours, there are no answers, solutions and methods that are eternally good. This setting can be read almost as a cross-political tribute to the further growth and development of our municipalities. The county council is much more divided than that: some people want it to be a quick death – others want a slow-moving. Others again want the status quo, while some of us want the county councils a new spring, in the form of large, powerful regions. But at the same time, there is a great deal of excitement about the county activities per day in this room. That's a good starting point. Otherwise, the differences in the setting are much an expression of the classic difference between the position and the opposition on the Platform: the opposition will be more and more rapid, while the position is more marked by ‘problematic constraints’ such as the budget and the rule of action, which sing behind it all. I'm not going to comment on single service areas here in my first post, but I'm a classic SV and red-green politician. A lot is good, and something's incredibly good, but it's said that some things can and will get better. In a society like ours, which is so rich, which has so many capable people out there in the municipal and municipal apparatuses, which are so up-to-date knowledgeable, and which have a great deal of community feeling, trust and mutual respect, it is clear that we have all the prerequisites for further developing good welfare societies around Norway. I'm not going to talk about municipal structure either. I could, because we talk a lot about municipal structure, and I think it's interesting and important enough. SV will now also lubricate municipal merger processes, where municipalities want to do so. But I think we overestimate the challenge of structure. If we go to our professional environments, they can't give us any clear answers – either in terms of quality, efficiency or democracy. And if a chat with the practitioners, there is also a shared view of this. At the same time, we now see more and more people saying that it looks like a structural change is desirable and necessary. I'm going to focus most on this state-communist-communist discussion, which we've already had so far. It is more important and more difficult, and neither does it give us any clear advice – to the extent that I can claim to follow up on everything that has come from research reports in this area. But for me as an SV, it is important to point out the following: We often have a debate of the type: are we going to have more state and less municipality or less state and more municipality? I think, unfortunately, we are now seeing a development in the public sector that indicates that we actually get less state and less municipality. This is because very many municipalities have rigged very clearly – it has not happened so much until now – to move from a situation where they are largely engaged in self-production of services to being more of an order for services. I think that is not least problematic local democracy. One thing is that one gets more power, authority and responsibility down from the state, but if you take all this and by ordering it out to private, I think it's not least democratic is a very demanding exercise. While it is difficult enough for a local politician to conduct good policy management of his own activity, if local political governance is to be primarily linked to the design of tender documents, to select a supplier and then to report from that supplier, we believe that this will in practice weaken local democracy. In addition – this has already been mentioned in the debate today – I am convinced that this order-executor bureaucracy is just a bureaucracy in the negative sense of the word; a big and problematic bureaucracy, which gives us red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1214	KS has calculated that the municipality's expenditure on average is NOK 135 000 more per person than that covered by the introduction scheme for refugees. There are additional costs that must then be covered within the already narrow framework of the municipalities. The state decides on the reception of refugees, the state allocates them to the municipalities, and the state decides which measures, such as: the introduction system to be implemented. Then it's probably also natural for the government to cover the actual costs. So my question to the representative Hagen is: why will the government and SV not cover the actual expenses of the municipalities that they are charged with through the introduction scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1224	An answer, which is a bit of a standard response when SV and the Progress Party are debating, is that we have some budgetary constraints to stick to, while the Progress Party basically does not have it. Fortunately, state and municipality have met. They have made a good deal and said that we must solve this together. The state has not disputed these calculations. At the same time, not least many municipalities have said that these are much more a resource than they have often considered. We see that there are many individual municipalities, for example: the Right-Handled Municipality of Molde, which has found that if a job is offensive to this, if one looks at this as part of the ordinary operating tasks, it is able to find good solutions even within the financial framework that one has today. So I'm optimistic. Suffering if I can't get more fresh money, I'm optimistic, because I think Kommune-Norway is getting more and more thanks to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1235	This concerns the warning given by the representative Hagen that public services should at all be outsourced to some private individuals who might be able to contribute. Once we had a municipal bus company here in the city that had monopoly. They had to have a grant from the city box. Then the city was divided into four construction areas and exposed to competition. Then you saved 10 million. kr for each of the four areas of the city. The interesting thing was that the private bus companies paid taxes to the municipality, and people were more satisfied than before, in addition to the fact that the municipality's own company had to become as effective as ever. What national accidents does the representative Hagen think followed this – except that more taxes were paid?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1244	This is not a national accident for an SV. I have been through the same process earlier in my own county, Uppland, where it was quite clear that we had an initial situation that was not good, in the sense that the monopoly company was paying too well. Then there was competition. Where we have lived with competition for a while, we unfortunately see that this also becomes problematic, because in practice there are so few providers that the price is going to go up very much again. So what was first a saving – it turns out in retrospect – is about to disappear. What I put the emphasis on in my post is the local democratic problem that when someone outsources services and activity, it's very difficult for politicians to control the same activity. Regardless of what we might think of our own activity in relation to privatisation, we should agree that this is very demanding locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1255	The Christian People's Party is concerned about the increasing debt in Norwegian municipalities. Net debt has now increased to over 40 pst. of revenue at the end of 2011. In the years 1997-2000, net debt was as low as around 10 pst. of the revenue. The debt at which interest expenditure nets on budgets and accounts can be estimated at well over 170 billion. kr. This makes municipalities very vulnerable to any interest rate increase, and municipalities are facing an uncertain future in purely economic terms. The freedom to act, decision-making and self-government of local authorities may also be limited because of this. When I hear the red-green parties talking about this, it seems to me that this doesn't bother them at all. Does this also apply to SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1262	This does not apply to SV, and it does not apply to the other red-green ones. We have already had a debate on this. It's worrying. At the same time, there is evidence that the municipal sector is now optimistic. They have a high level of activity. Part of the large level of activity is caused by an investment. What we're busy with is de-dramatizing or making the discussion a little bit more factual. It's just half of the debts that burden the local economy. If we look at interest rate increases, it is that pension placements and other money placements make municipalities actually profit from an interest rate increase. So the net effect of an interest rate increase is less dramatic than it might sound like the opposition. But of course we're concerned about this. That is precisely why we are discussing it in relation to each state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1275	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1278	Community economics are boring to many, but it is really about basic services that many of us depend on every day: kindergarten, school, care and health care. I am happy to belong to a majority of governments that rate the municipality as a service provider – not only in fine words, but with a significant increase in transfers. From 2005 to 2013, transfers have increased by 68 billion. kr. The growth has given 59 000 more annual works in the municipal sector — mainly in kindergarten, school, care and care. Seventeen annual works go to the production of services, only one of eighteen to the central administration. The income framework for the municipal sector for 2014 provides room for a continuing high level of welfare services in municipalities. The interaction reform entailed new tasks for the municipalities. So far, this has gone far better than many predictions. Experience is mainly in line with the objectives of the reform. Preliminary estimates show that the deviation between actual and budgeted co-financing expenditure is relatively modest, about 2 pst. I have noticed that there has been a change in this spring that means that all today's opposition parties will now reform the municipal structure in Norway. What they really mean by that is that the Storting, at the very head of local democracy and those who live in the municipalities, should make profound and irreversible changes in everyday life to many. The centre party is in no way adversaries of a community merger where this is locally initiated and anchored in the local people's will. The lot has been in the front for such processes across most locations. But we have been, and will continue to be, a guarantor of local folklore and against the use of coercion to push through such deletions of small municipalities. It may seem that some people are almost ashamed that we have as many municipalities as we have in this country. Over time, a set of myths has been cultivated and confused with established truths. Compared to many other countries, we do not have many municipalities in Norway. The myth that we want to save huge sums on a large-scale structural reform is only right if we want a large-scale centralisation of municipal services. Maybe that's exactly what's behind it. My hypothesis is that those who want coercion of municipalities are not really satisfied that people live where they live today, and will force them to move more centrally. The settlement of refugees who have stayed in Norway is a national responsibility, but the municipalities have to do the job. With increased loan frameworks in the House Bank, municipalities will have a better opportunity to provide suitable housing. It is important both for the quality of life of refugees and for the integration of the time spent in asylum recipients as short as possible. The aim of the Central Party and the Government is to enable all municipalities in the country to provide equivalent services. The government has taken several measures to reduce income disparities between municipalities — for example: new cost key, changes in income cushioning and the winding-up of the municipal corporation tax scheme – which has benefited the vast majority of municipalities. In general, these changes have resulted in a better financial situation for low-tax municipalities, while the richest municipalities have gotten a little less. Much indicates that the Right Party and the Advance Party want to go the other way. The Progress Party shall call for the removal of the small municipal grant. Right wants to increase the tax rate and reduce the degree of intermunicipalisation. By taking from the poor and giving to the rich, the vast majority of municipalities – 90 pst. - Tape. We're going to have huge differences in the quality of municipal services. After the counties assumed responsibility for the national roads, a shift in the level of investment has taken place. The county councils have proved to be good road owners, often better than the state. However, maintenance delays are high, and this will require priority to be given to county roads for many years to come. The government has taken the consequences of this. In the national transport plan, it was raised to 10 billion. kr in addition to the next ten-year period for maintenance of county roads. The counties also have an important role to play as regional development actors and coordinators, in cooperation between municipalities and other public and private actors. In contrast to the Right and Advance Party, which does not want this regional level, we believe that the very role of regional development - including support for business development and responsibility for a comprehensive road network - is an area in which the county municipality has obvious advantages and can contribute to more regionally adapted development work than the central government could do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1311	The Central Party took part in the adoption of the Cooperation Reform. What we're seeing in my home country now is that it's being put up to form large intercommunal companies to deal with it, because one realizes that one doesn't have the competence to do it itself. I would like to ask the representative of the Central Party: will this not be an admission that small municipalities simply do not have resources and competences, and will this not in the long run lead to enormous centralization and undemocratic relations with intercommunal companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1318	No, on the contrary, I think this leads to better services for the citizens. My experience with the Interaction Reform is that there has been very good intercommunal cooperation on special services. The large, basic areas are the municipalities themselves that take care of. In the case of intermediate places, for example, it is quite natural that several municipalities cooperate on such specialised tasks. It is not only the small municipalities that cooperate, but also the urban communities that work together to create an even better environment of competence and even better provision for citizens. I think it is a strength that we have good intercommunal cooperation around. There is no obstacle to democracy for municipalities to come together, and municipalities can find different cooperation regions, entirely based on the tasks involved. For some it is appropriate to be in a region in terms of the cooperation reform and those tasks, and then it may be appropriate to be in a small, different constellation in terms of completely different tasks that they share with other neighbouring municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1325	In his statement, Heidi Greni mentioned the bet on the county roads and the frailties of the government, which will spend 10 billion over a ten-year period. kr extra for maintenance of county roads. One would then think that the first billion would come in 2014. But already in 2014 they are underfunded. In addition, the compensation for transport operations in municipalities is removed. So here you give with one hand and take with the other. Does the Center Party really think that this package is worth taking the wave for?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1333	It's true, as the representative says, that there have been changes in the interest-rate compensation scheme. It will have effects over the first three to four years, I guess. After that, this increase will stand out completely. In fact, it is with the interest-rate compensation scheme to shift expenditure forward in time. So now we're going to keep going. I would say that the county roads and the pace of development of the county roads have been completely different since the counties assumed this responsibility. I see that in my home country there is another coherent development, a completely different common regional planning, and we have got a completely different rate of rural development, which shows that the state is not the right one to drive the county roads in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1338	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1341	The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. This presupposes that the distribution of power and funding are such that both municipalities and county councils have the means to carry out their tasks. Municipalities are the main providers of welfare services, and this requires a predictable and good local economy. There is a broad consensus that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipality and the finances of the municipality. It is therefore essential that state reforms and impositions are followed up by sufficient free means. Municipalities are first-line services for business and social development. This also requires revenue to be proportionate to the responsibilities and obligations arising therefrom. Surveys of rapporteurs and advisers have shown that the expectations of the inhabitants exceed the economic viability of the municipality. This is the consequence of a large part of the service provision and the first line being placed under municipal governance, without adequate funding. It is essential for a good service offer in municipalities and for maintaining trust between local government and incorporating new services that are subject to municipalities or transferred from state to municipality, to be fully financed from day one. The level of debt in the municipal sector has increased sharply in recent years. The main reason for this development is a high level of investment and related debt financing. Total long-term liabilities amounted to around 330 billion at the end of 2012. kr. The debt, where interest expenditure is netly charged to the budgets and accounts, can be estimated at well over 170 billion. kr – or up to half of the total debt. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the growing debt in Norwegian municipalities, and, as I have explained earlier in a line exchange, the net debt has increased to over 40 pst. income at the end of 2011, against 10 pst. for the years 1997-2000. This makes municipalities very vulnerable to any interest rate increase. We in the Christian People’s Party want a living local democracy that has both freedom of action and autonomy. We see that the government has assigned tasks to the municipalities and also given the municipalities the bill for the tasks. The government shifts responsibility to the municipalities and allows municipal politicians to take over the noise for lack of funding and cut off services. Therefore, I believe there is a need to clarify that if the municipalities are assigned new tasks, the municipalities must receive equivalent increased subsidies. Only that will guarantee the municipalities real autonomy. It is very positive that the government is now finally following in our footsteps and taking action to get the refugees settled more quickly. Rapid residence after a residence and work permit has been granted is of great importance for the individual’s adaptation to and participation in the Norwegian community. Today, municipalities have fewer residents than the IMDi requests, and the proportion of municipalities who say no to housing is increasing. According to IMDi, the municipalities of the country have to settle 28 000 refugees between 2014 and 2016. By the end of March 2013, about 4 400 people in asylum centres were expected to live in a municipality. Of these, 700 are children. This is a disturbingly high number. For the Christian People's Party, it is unacceptable that the settlement goals are not met. There are probably many reasons why several municipalities face housing challenges. Lack of housing, school services, workplaces, past experience and risk of extensive family reunification — which I hear is also being used — may be possible reasons for this. The main reason that is still being highlighted is too low an investment grant for the construction of dwellings and too low an integration grant. The integration grant is currently lower than the municipal costs associated with the organisation needed. Therefore, it is positive that the government is now alerting increased integration grants, increased grant frameworks and up to 40 pst. grants to rental dwellings for refugees and other priority groups. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that these measures alone will not be enough to make everyone who is waiting for residence. It requires a further strengthening of the local authority's capacity and resources for settlement in order to target the settlement of all those who are now sitting and waiting for reception. As I said, by the end of March of this year, about 4 400 people were received – these are people who have been accommodated and are to be settled in a municipality – it is a disturbingly high number. I hope that all parties will be involved in a task that will enable this unworthy situation for these people to end quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1367	In the class struggle yesterday it was found that if things were going so wrong that there would be a government change for the autumn, the Progress Party will facilitate large-scale privatisation in Norwegian municipalities. Yes, Gjermund Hagesetter, Municipal Spokesman of the Progress Party, is going as far as promising a 'large-scale privatisation in Norwegian municipalities if they come to power after the harvest's elections'. Helping the Advance Party to come to power, the Christian People's Party intends to do so. According to the Progress Party itself, the main candidate of the Progress Party for the municipal ministerial post is their rapporteur in the municipality of Austevoll, who has privatised the entire care and care sector in the municipality. What are the thoughts of the representative Becreud of being a possible support party for a government that promises large-scale privatisation in Kommune-Norway, or even a member of such a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1374	First of all, I must say that, unlike the Workers' Party, there is no Christian People's Party allergy to any form of privatisation. There may be some tasks that could be suitable for it — not necessarily within the care and care areas, but perhaps other areas. What the Christian People's Party has said is that we need to have a strengthening of the non-profit sector, a greater strengthening than the red-green and government has done, because in that sector there are many actors who do good, important societal tasks also in the health field. Otherwise, I have to say that of course the Progress Party will have every opportunity to talk about its policy. The Christian People's Party is going to talk about its policy, and then this is going to be an area that we'll probably be able to talk about when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1383	First, I'm sorry – or I didn't hear well enough after, or something like that: the 170 billion is the 60 percent and not the gross debt. Secondly, I have previously used the opportunity to make the Christian People's Party and Geir Jørgen Bekkewold pay tribute to the regional level. Now I thought that I would be looking for a corresponding tribute to the project Samon on a better municipality, which is a change project that is growing more and more in scope – which in many ways is putting the Norwegian model into practice, that one gets this tripartite collaboration between state, municipality and trade unions. Is the Christian People's Party and the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold ready to celebrate together about a better municipality, and so say that this is a project that one will continue to work on even in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1392	I would like to join in and pay tribute to all the projects that enable the local community sector to flourish and develop further. This and probably more other actions and projects will be part of the Christian People's Party. We are a party that wants decisions to be made at the lowest possible level. Therefore, the local government sector becomes an important sector. Having a municipal sector that thrives and develops further is very, very important also for the Christian People's Party. To the tripartite collaboration: we haven't challenged it in any way, and we see that these are things that can probably be further developed. But the most important thing is that all good forces come together to strengthen the municipal sector. This is where welfare services are primarily created and delivered, and therefore it is important that we have a robust municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1399	I record that Bekkewold does not want to respond to the possible coercion between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. I understand that, because I think it's actually quite unpleasant. I'll go over to another field. In our committee we also have responsibility for integration and immigration. The representative Beccavold was occupied with the settlement. We are all, because we want the skill that the representative wanted. We very much support that, and we are pleased that the representative has that position. But is the representative of Bekkewold comfortable to cooperate with the Progress Party in the field of asylum and immigration, and supports the Christian People's Party's views in this area, not least with regard to the people affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1408	There is no need to hide that there is a great distance between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party when it comes to asylum, immigration and integration issues. It's one of those areas where I see that the distance can be so large that there's a reason that we from the Christian People's Party have said that it's unlikely that we are in government with the Advance Party. But everything should be able to talk about, and we've been very clear on that. We want a new government, and we want after the election – when the voters have spoken and said their – to sit down with all the parties and talk about the difficult areas as well. Then we'll see what we can get to when those conversations are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1415	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1419	We are now dealing with the community structure, which is actually a follow-up to the debate we have had on district and regional policy. The essence of the speech I made last week was that the welfare state we usually meet when we meet the municipality, and it is important to find good local solutions. However, it is provided that there is a local space for action – not only economic space, as it is being discussed, but also space for action with regard to the rules, directives, regulations and state measures that are applicable to all the local decisions to be taken. Most of our values are created locally, and it is important that the state has incentives that enable us to provide strong value creation. In the context of the district communication, we had seven concrete proposals. One was the proposal for a municipal reform for new, fewer and stronger municipalities, larger grants for free resources, freer municipal taxpayers, the return of part of the corporation tax, the sharing of Innovation Norway, the strengthening of SIVA – none of these proposals received a majority in the hall. That's too bad. Let me first elaborate on the need for a community reform. It's not like the description that the Center Party has put on in its election campaign in order not to change anything is right. It's actually like there's a lot of movement out there among people, where you see the structures that we had when both the offer from the municipalities were different, the trade needs were different, and the communication was different. The desire is strong in people to make changes — yes, so strong that the KS is now on the move to look at more appropriate and good solutions to provide good services. It's not about saving money, but it's about better services for people. In the future, we're going to have to demand a different kind of competence. Being able to make good solutions deserves that we strengthen the local government. If we are to strengthen the local government and move power downwards, I fully agree with the government when they report that the effect of giving the municipalities more power is weakened by the fact that many municipalities do not have the capacity and competence to follow up that responsibility. I fully agree with the government there. We have too small units to be able to move power down. We have too little units to strengthen local democracy. The current government policy weakens local democracy, weakens the ability to move power downwards and weakens the ability to have good local solutions. That's why Left fights for a municipal reform. This is going to be the important task to take up for a new municipal minister. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the proposal from the Left, which has been distributed in the Chamber. There is no new proposal. We have made a similar proposal in relation to the treatment of the municipal proposition in the last two to three years, but unfortunately we have not received a majority. That means it's still the same thing. Municipal economy is so incredibly much more than money. There is a link between tasks, regulations, transfers and freedom to find solutions that benefit citizens. The problem today is that we have a regulated local democracy. We govern with so many laws, regulations and rights for each citizen that it is soon not possible for local politicians to find the right solutions. There are up to 7 000 paragraphs and regulations and a very advanced income system as the basis for the local democracy we have today. It is a great paradox – with so many paragraphs and so many regulations – that it is only 10 pst. of the municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants who have at all a lawyer to interpret all the laws, regulations, circulars and regulations coming from this government. In other words, there are 200 municipalities that have not even hired a professional to read all the messages they receive. It's part of the competence gap we see between the state and the municipality, it's the draining of local democracy that we see. We would have a review of the entire law that organizes our local democracy today, so that hopefully we could clean up, clean up and make the expectations of the municipalities much clearer, simpler and with greater space for action. Finally, I would like to say that the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1-3 and of course for our own proposal, which is distributed in the hall, and which I bring up with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1442	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1445	Local government policy is one of the areas that most clearly shows the difference according to who controls. The debate here today has also shown that. The municipal scheme for the next year follows up the line that the government has had for almost eight years. But at the end of the session it might be nice to look back and maybe venture to look forward. Where the previous government is streaming into its budget, we have given room for action. On average, municipalities have added 10,300 people each year while we have controlled. There are mainly people who are in direct dialogue and provide direct services to the inhabitants. Under the Bondevik II government, with Erna Solberg in the chair, the average was 1,800. Tax havens were more important than local welfare. Where the previous government weakened the district bet, we have small municipalities, among others. through small municipal grants and regional development funds. These tools face an uncertain future at a change of government. When the previous government allowed rich municipalities to become richer and the poor poor to lag behind, we have smoothed tax revenues more. All municipalities should be able to provide good services. So we take a little from the municipalities with the highest tax revenue to give to them with the lowest. This has right said that they will reverse. A switch to the fall will be dramatic for the 373 municipalities that will lose on such a reversal. The municipal bill for 2014 clearly shows what direction we will continue. The government wants good communities that can provide good services to its inhabitants throughout the country. It's not like some people want to pretend that you're at least happy with the services in the smaller municipalities. On the contrary, it is in the smallest municipalities that you are most satisfied with the services. In some cases, a black measurement of the situation in municipalities is attempted. The truth is, as the Municipal Report had written on the whole front page some time ago, that things are going better. It's actually going very well. One provides good services. The sector's revenue actually increased by 67.6 billion. kr from 2005 to 2013, and the municipalities have used the revenues well. From 2006 to 2012, there have been 59 000 more annual works in the municipal sector. Essentially, it is the service provision that is most important for people's everyday lives. We'll be more in this country. It makes it necessary to build up the services. I would particularly like to mention two areas that have grown up strongly. Some 25,000 of the new annual works in the municipal sector have come in care. More people who need care and care will be helped to adapt to the challenges they face. We have received better medical and physiotherapy coverage, and several of the residents of the hospital have been singled out. Another service that has increased significantly is kindergarten. Our goal is to ensure that all kids have a high-quality childcare facility at a low price. Since 2005, 62,000 more children have been accommodated in kindergartens, and child care coverage has increased monthly. It means something to the kids, and it means something to the parents, who know that the kids have a safe everyday life. The government is continuing its efforts in the local government sector. In the municipal bill for next year, the government announces growth in total revenue of between 6 billion. kr and 6.5 br. kr – of which between 5 brd. kr and 5,5 brd. as free income. The proposed increase in income facilitates the strengthening of the provision of municipal services — again. The county councils get 1 billion. kr of the forecast growth in free income, which is €0.5 billion. kr i escalating to bet on renewal and upgrading of the roads. Between 4 billion. kr and 4,5 br. Growth is spent on free income for municipalities – which they can dispose of to the needs of the individual municipality. It's historically low ear marking. When I hear the Progress Party from this pulpit, I have to ask myself what future the municipalities are going into if the leader of the Progress Party is going to be Finance Minister, and maybe they are going to have the Municipal Minister. It's going to be tight control. There will be earmarks, and it will be the state that will take over the responsibility. What should be their tasks in such an organisation? It might be interesting to right something about. Local authorities need to reconsider how they can solve these problems. For this reason, we have presented an innovation strategy for the local government sector. The strategy focuses on cross-sectoral cooperation, provides us with a study of innovation, and we will develop municipalities to be even more innovative than they are today. It is such that most state reforms have started in one or more municipalities – most recently the Cooperation Reform, which we have introduced in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1469	Some time ago, the government decided that a good deal of road would be transferred to the county, and the county would be responsible for these roads. At the same time, a distribution key was added to the 50 pst key. of the funds for initial investment should be according to population and 50 pst. by road length. The County Spokesman of Sogn and Fjordane, from the Workers' Party, and the County Spokesman of Sogn and Fjordane, from the Center Party, have stated that this is a profoundly unfair arrangement. Will the government take the initiative to change the distribution key, so that the Sogn and Fjordne counties will not be in the situation that the County Spokesman briefed the county council about the last time, that one does not have the means in Sogn and Fjordne for the next ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1478	When these highways were transferred to the state, Sogn and Fjordne were perhaps the state that came out the best, because it took care of the states that had projects in progress. Sogn and Fjordne got 10 pst. by the frame – far above that one would have otherwise. Difor has now been able to open the Bremanger connection, and hence, a soon-to-open Dalsfjord connection – thanks to this government, which has devoted too much money to the state. The criteria for trade to be included in the income system shall be established. This is alert in 2015. In the transitional year 2014, a breakdown has been provided, as described by the representative. It's one year. The permanent solution, the permanent distribution, comes into the income system for 2016, and it will not be like this. It has always been clear that this was an arrangement for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1485	The history description we received from the Council of State lacked an important historical fact, namely that the Bondevik II government took over government responsibility at a time when it was absolutely necessary to correct the Norwegian economy, and then the municipalities had to contribute. When they left the table, the Workers' Party's own chief commentator said that the new government came to the table and covered the table. The last time I was in line with the Council of State, she was Minister of Transport. One of the last things she did was to transfer two thirds of the highways to the county municipalities. They brought a small portfolio – 1 billion. kr – and an interest-rate compensation scheme. The maturities and delays are increasing. The interest-rate compensation scheme shall be removed. Right-wing thought it was a good order and will continue this. Doesn't the Council of State think it was a good arrangement, and isn't she worried about the lapse?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1494	When the county took over the rest of the highways, some adjustments were also made, so that the state kept some more of those roads than what was mentioned when we discussed this in another setting. Yes, the interest compensation scheme was a good one, but then the county council budget was not at the level it is today. First of all, let's add 1 billion. kr extra in 2009, in addition to the figure of 5 billion. kr to be transferred. So we've added a step up of 1 billion. kr annually in the next national transport plan. It is clear that it is worth more to municipalities than to the interest compensation scheme, for those funds can either be used to invest directly or to raise a loan. We have argued that this government will be seated. This means that the escalation will be in place, and they will have a billion dollars. extra kr, which will be permanent and which can be used either for borrowing or directly for investments for operation and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1503	I want to ask a question related to the Interaction Reform. It was important that this should be a fully funded reform. Now the figures show that municipal cofinancing is about 120 million. kr. If you start from a macro perspective, you might say, OK, then you've done quite well. But if you go down at municipal level, you can see that 220 municipalities spend more of their own money on this reform than other municipalities that have come further into implementation or that have a different economy. So 220 municipalities have a higher cost than the one they get compensated for. This may, of course, be an opportunity to ask the Council of State if it is not the case that this reform should already be recalculated. What does she want to do to enable the municipalities that need to spend more of their own money to experience that this is a reform that both works and is fully funded by the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1512	When we transfer funds to the municipalities, we have to count on the macro level. It will be impossible for you to sit and count on each municipality. And if we look at macro, I'll say that 120 million. kr is quite well hit. When we look at other reforms, they have turned out a little differently. The qualification program beats the other way. There is one that has not used the frame that is transferred to the municipalities, and there are none of the municipalities – because I have listened, or KS – that requires us to withdraw the funds. It would have been natural if we had a system of backtracking, that we also drifted back into what went into plus. Last year, demographic trends were such that we had too high a pollination of demography compared to what was the reality. Nor do we demand the funds again – there are hundreds of millions. One of them got over 2.5 billion. kr in permanent incomes that are evened out, thank you for a government that smooths out between rich and poor municipalities, so that everyone gets a share in them. Overall, I think that this cancels out more than 120 million. NOK, but I have said that we should follow closely with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1521	I listened to the Council's numberexersis that mouth out in an attack on my party, Right, probably as part of a starvation legend about the previous government. I could imagine hearing what the Council of State thinks that the Right in its alternative budgets has been under the government's proposal for a framework for municipalities during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1529	A party and a government's willingness to stimulate either the municipal sector, the transport sector or other sectors is reflected in downgrading proposition No. 1 as the government submits to the Stortinget. If we look at average real growth in the time Right put in government and had power, the average was pretty low: 1.6 pst. from 2002 to 2005. That the Storting, against Right's will, plus the crooked budgets, so at least there was a little bit more when it was to be distributed to the municipalities, can't be Right's merit. What a lot does when it's in opposition is less important. That's not what expresses the party's real will. It is when you are in the position that politics becomes reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1534	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1537	As a member of the municipal committee, of course, I think this is one of the most important debates we have during the year. I would argue that this is also the case, because the municipal bill clarifies the framework and direction of the municipalities each year in the following year of income. Norwegian municipalities are transferring for 400 billion. kr every year. Most of it is redistribution over the state budget, but there is also something in own resources. By comparison, the State budget is well above a thousand billion. kr. One out of five employed here in the country is employed in a municipality. One out of five doesn't sound that much, but when we know that there are 463,000 employees, we realize that the local government sector is important. And as has been said earlier here, most of us citizens meet the municipality on a daily basis, either because we leave the children in safe hands in kindergarten, or by going to school, need health care or need care in other ways. The representative Michael Tetzschner tries to create a crisis of confidence and says there is a crisis between the state and the municipalities in Norway. It's a story I don't know about at all. It has to me no root in reality. It's possible that it's like this in Oslo, but in those parts of the country where I live most, it's not like that. On the contrary, it is a good cooperation. It's a good marriage, where the municipality, state and county work together to achieve the goals for the benefit of the population. As in all marriages, there are, of course, some discussions and some disagreements, but we also live with them. We have strengthened the municipal economy by approx. 67 B.C.E. kr. In the period we've had the government power, we've been dedicated to having greater balance, because we want a more equivalent service offer. The background for this is very simple: there is a correlation between the level of income of municipalities and what kind of service they can actually provide. We started that job already in 2005 in this Chamber, in the debate on the same subject: the municipality proposal for 2006. I'm just going to remind you of what former municipal minister Erna Solberg was busy telling you. She was busy talking about politician disdain. She said that there is so much promise in this debate that there are many who should be disappointed about actually saying something. She said this about the representatives of the current government parties who said something about what we wanted with the local economy. The pheasant shows that we have no reason at all to be embarrassed. On the contrary, we are very proud of what we have done in the local economy. The representative Tetzschner also said one thing in his post on which I have to arrest him, because he claims that the increase in the action space of the Norwegian economy will benefit any government. No, that's not true. So we have not gone to the elections on tax reliefs of 25 billion. kr per year, as done by the Right. It would have restricted the action space by 25 billion. kr in the year of the government. We hear that the citizens will go to the elections to form the government together. The Progress Party promises tax relief in the order of 100 billion. kr. That's 50 pst. more than what we have strengthened the municipal economy with. No, the civilians do not have the same space for action, it does not benefit every government. The space of action that we have created because we've done a priority -- we think that the biggest problems we have to solve together. In his post, Tetzschner was also concerned with the differences in growth. He suggested that in terms of annual growth in the municipal sector, the difference between the Bondevik II government and the red-green government, which has managed for eight years, is marginal – because we have thus had an annual growth of about 10 %. 2.5 pst., and then Tetzschner claims that with the Bondevik II government it was the growth of approx. 2.25 pst. Yes, that's right, but what Tetzschner does not mention in his statement is that this increase is due to the opposition in the Stortinget – including the Workers' Party – adding to the budget proposals made by the government. If we were to base the proposals of the Bondevik II government, the growth would have been at 1.5 pst, which is an estimated 60 pst. of the growth we've had now. I am very pleased that the representative Tetzschner also provided us with a clarification of the Right-wing Distribution Policy, and that the proposal that was made last year, but which was clearly forgotten to promote in the municipal proposition this year, is on track. So they want a tax equalization of approx. 50 pst. - and even more is desirable. It's very easy to clarify it, because then we know that the Right Policy is still standing. Still, there are uncertainties that I believe the voters are entitled to know something about. It's about the Right Astonishment Package, which is the combination of the municipalities' financial arrangements and the tax distribution. It is the municipal structure debate – how many municipalities should we have, and what process should it be, and should it be voluntary or not? And that is not least the division of tasks – what tasks should go to the municipality and who should go to the state? The selection must be clarified before the choice is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1558	Representatives from the Red-Green Government explain how much money the municipalities have received and how much they have for welfare, school and other important purposes. So are people out in Municipality-Noreg happy with the red-green government's alleged bet on the municipalities? I don't think so. I record that what was supposed to be Minister Liv Signe Navarsete's taboo – ringing around the district municipalities – is wrong. It seems to me that it is immeasurably important for the municipal minister to tell how much money she has given to the municipalities in the last few years – in the hope that people will believe that it is true – without mentioning the increase in costs that has been in this period. The red-green government has achieved one thing, and it is increasing the red-green bureaucracy considerably, while the warm hands in the care profession and the teachers in the schools and other disadvantaged people are the losers. The Progress Party believes that individuals and the community should have great freedom to make decisions that apply to themselves. Local self-government ensures closeness between the populace and people and contributes to their destination. The municipalities themselves form the basis for the local government and represent the proximity, access, security and potential of the population. The Progress Party indicates that the local government sector has a self-responsive responsibility towards its inhabitants to solve tasks by providing services, promoting social development, exercising authority and being a local political institution. At the same time, the state has a responsibility to provide the local authorities with the right resources to solve the tasks at their best. Norway is facing a number of welfare challenges that address municipalities, both directly and indirectly. The municipalities are being tied by the increase in individual dishes in more and more areas. Local authorities are also directly involved. ageing of the population through an increased need for municipal services in this area. This will be required for the municipalities, not least financially, especially at a time when the municipality of Norway has had reduced operating performance and reduced economic space. The Progress Party believes that the key issue today is the ability of the municipal sector to solve its tasks for the benefit of its citizens, to be strengthened by stronger state governance or by stronger municipal self-government and greater equivalency between the municipal sector and the state. I mean the last is the solution. Under today's government, municipalities and county councils have been given more and more statutory tasks, without full funding being provided, which means that municipalities have to cut into other important areas of responsibility. The Progress Party believes that the need for freedom for Kommune-Noreg also means freedom from underfunded reforms. The government threatens its freedom in many ways through lack of funding and through promises that put local politicians in challenging situations, because they are unable to deliver what is expected of them. Freedom to prioritize in line with local policy wishes has thus been weakened. What has weakened this freedom is that there are no resources to develop and maintain competence-based, stable and locally adapted services in the areas that are put on as the most central, easy schooling, health and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1579	I would like to address a matter that many municipalities are concerned about, namely that in many municipalities there are still major challenges related to the capacity and competence of the Interaction Reform. From the Right, we have always thought that the most important focus in the municipalities should be the systematic building of skills, combined with the development of greater capacity before the reform was phased in. We therefore believe that there needs to be a level playing field in the care sector in order to enable the community health service to carry out ever-increasing tasks. In addition, we believe that the phase-in of the follow-up to drug and psychiatry to the next phase of the Interaction Reform must only take place after some municipalities have developed pilot projects and gained important experiences that can benefit the entire sector. On the right was the introduction of the system of municipal co-financing as a tool for strengthening prevention and treatment provision in municipalities. Very many municipalities have too low a population base to be able to establish real alternatives to specialist health services. Furthermore, the local authority’s ability to limit the development of disease and the need for specialist health services will be limited in a number of areas. The right also fears that the scheme of general municipal co-financing in practice weakens the patient’s right to specialist healthcare because municipalities will have a strong incentive, or motive, to limit the use of such services. I am recalling here the report from the Centre for Economic Research at NTNU which examined on behalf of the KS the reasons why the municipalities are so different from the cooperation reform. The report identifies systematic discrepancies between the amount of expenditure incurred by individual municipalities for co-financing and the amount of revenue received through the income system. The right will show that although the promise was that the cooperation reform would be fully financed, preliminary figures from the Health Directorate show that this was not the case and that the actual expenditure for the municipalities was about 150 million. kr higher – and it is serious. KS would state that «for the municipalities affected, there is a large amount of money, which means less money for schools, kindergartens, care and care». When it is also a fact that the government's election vows on the promise of 12 000 new lucky days' care places are not being fulfilled, I am tempted to take words as "choice bottle" in my mouth. In any case, this is to settle the bill without a host. Right is and has been critical of created expectations of 12,000 new places when this promise actually includes rehabilitation and replacement of refurbished spaces without any measure of how many more places there will be. There is reason for concern that many municipalities in the context of the Interaction Reform have received a high pressure in short-term settings in hospitals for patients with ready-to- print, which gives a higher threshold for getting sick homes. In particular, it is serious that there are increasing mental health challenges and that many young people are out of work because of mental distress. We are concerned about the strong focus on the demands and challenges of the cooperation reform, and that this has contributed to the fact that municipalities do not have the power to provide a good enough supply of drugs and psychiatry to people who are struggling. The right has proposed to establish an offer of general psychologists in the municipalities, in co-location with the local authorities. In the municipal sector, too, we can learn from each other. In this context, I would like to refer to the successful establishment of a so-called drop-in offer of public psychologists in Tvedestrand. This works well as an important low threshold for early intervention in mental health, especially for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1611	Good quality in municipal services today and in the future is among the main objectives of the government. Innovation can be an important tool for developing today’s offer and adapting it to the challenges that municipalities and county municipalities will face in the years to come. Norway has a comprehensive public sector that ensures well-being, care, health and education, a well-organised working and business life, significant public ownership and high levels of professional participation. The proposition points out that innovation in the public sector will have a major impact on the country’s overall value creation. In order to achieve more efficient public sector use of resources, better and safer services and meeting societal challenges, the government is working for, among others. å digitise public sector focus in particular on innovation across the health and care sector promoting innovation in the municipal sector increase the innovation impact of public acquisitions With the innovation strategy, the government wants to contribute to innovation, promote an innovation culture and motivate innovation work in the municipal sector. Innovation shall be an integral part of the activity and shall be continuous. Municipalities will make greater use of innovation and develop new solutions to ensure good services for their citizens in the decades to come. It is also important that experience from innovation processes is spread more systematically than is currently being done. One should view the inhabitants more as a resource for society. This applies not least to the elderly. Municipalities will be even better placed to draw with the inhabitants and volunteers in their efforts to find new and good solutions. What's so innovation in the municipalities? Innovation in business in St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2009 has been defined as follows: ‘a new product, service, new production process, application or organisational form that has been launched on the market or put into production to generate economic values’;» But this definition is not entirely accurate in the public sector, so it is proposed in the proposition: ‘Innovation is the process of developing new ideas and realizing them so that they add value to society’. Then the short version will be useful, and it will be useful. Innovation then becomes known or new knowledge that is recombined or used in a new context. It's pointed out in the proposition that there's going to be a big need for municipal innovation in the next decades. Innovation and new ideas are not new to the Norwegian municipalities. A number of welfare services that we see as self-evident today grew up from good ideas in some municipalities. Take, for example: The interaction reform, where the congstant is getting better interaction between the municipal sector and hospitals. Municipalities that had done innovative things in this area before the reform were among others. Alta and Ål. It's the anniversary of voting rights this year, and I want to say something about local democracy, considering that women got a vote 100 years ago. Is it a slight weakness for democracy that one fifth of the rapporteurs are women? Are we also going to be innovative here, thinking about opportunities to get more women involved in local policy? Is there anything about the meeting structure and the way you organize it? The same is true of the Storting. Here we have a female share of almost 40 pst. – very unevenly distributed among the various political parties. Some have 50 pst, some have a very low percentage of women, some have over 50 pst. in his staging group. Maybe you should look at election law, look at how you nominate to the Stortinget? This has something to do with thinking ahead, and 100 years ago, these women stood and fought for women's voting rights. It does not happen – when you see how the composition is in the municipal authorities and in the storeroom. So this is a call to be innovative and innovative in political work, so that women too will have a greater share in leadership positions in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1662	This government boasts of the time’s commitment to transport, and so has this Minister of Transport on the county road network. But I would like to say that if you are to take credit for a so-called "traffic promise" – which is not very strange, because all governments have granted more money than the previous government – you might also have to assume responsibility for the fact that the fallout on the county road network has never been greater than while this government has been sitting. They boast of the bet of the times, but the maturity of the county road network is now between 45 and 75 billion. kr. The state Road Service says you should count 55 billion. kr as some kind of goal to maybe take it back. Yeah, 45-75 billion. kr – and government’s commitment to transport on the county road network, it is 1 billion. kr more this year, or 10 brd. kr more in the period. But ‘real’ – it wasn’t 1 billion. kr a year, that was 651 million. kr in the first four years. Then we're almost 1.4 billion. after four years in the case of arrears. Then we have had a choice, a new roll-out of the national transport plan, and we have had another choice, given. Then it's like those billions are almost 1.4 billion. kr less in total during the four-year period than the one the government has been outside and boasted of land and beach around, in particular the Central Party politicians. But not enough with that: you take away the interest compensation scheme that allowed county councils to borrow 2 billion. kr per year. That's 1 billion. kr more than what you would actually get now if you had distributed the 10 billion. DKK of 10 years. Then you remove that arrangement and say that it will no longer be allowed for you. That's great. That means that to the county councils, which now has a maturity that's up in a place between 45 and 75 billion. They say, "Good luck, you'll get it done yourself." And then the two billion have turned into 651 million. If you don't borrow that money too. But you can't keep borrowing if you don't get the money to make sure you pay it back. I understand that the Council of State has been in Sogn and Fjordane and has driven a car. We've also registered that she's aware that it's a In my county, Telemark, it's 3 billion overdue. kr. When the councils get there, she may be running mostly black cars, but maybe she should take a walk around the country and look at the bad road network; get behind the wheel and drive around on very bad county road networks, see how it's going on in the real world, even here in the East, and maybe a little in North Norway too – the decline only in Northern Ireland is at 7.8 billion. kr. We're asking to know how the 651 million. kr shall be distributed among the counties, but no, we shall return to that in the state budgets. Then you might want to know how you're going to leave the distribution between the different states. In Norway, car repair shops, in particular the trailer and vehicle repair shops, say that they switch parts that they do not change anywhere in the world other than at Brunkeberg in Telemark or elsewhere around the districts of Hedmark and Uppland. Maybe the state council should start doing something about the hugely bad county road network. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Local Affairs, along with the Minister of Transport. I'll ask the councillor to take a walk to see what it looks like out there. Maybe we should try to have a bigger ambition than getting less money into the county road network in 2014 than in 2013. That is what the state politicians expect. It expects business in the districts. This is about district policy. Telemark is told by German tourist fairs, which say that they recommend the Germans not to drive via Telemark. That's good district policy for the hotels in District-Telemark, that! Perhaps the council should take a trip to Vrådal and talk to the hotel owner there, who loses bus loads on busloads with tourists, because the roads are so bad that the tourist companies will not drive with their buses there. They destroy the buses, and they have 40 pst. more maintenance costs. This is reality. I hope the Council of State is starting to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1681	It's June 20th today. It's the World Day of Refugees, established by the United Nations in the year 2000 to draw attention to the lives of refugees around the world. A further marker is required. The number of refugees in the world is now at the highest level of 20 years. But what does that have to do with the community proposition? Actually quite a lot! I want to take up the thread from the previous case when we discussed housing policy. It has something to do with municipalities, and it has something to do with refugees. We have had an unsustainable situation in the settlement of refugees for a long time. A lot of people don't get out of the receptions. There are no municipalities that will accept them. It's unworthy of the world's richest country. These are people who have fled from everything – fled for life. They'll have room at reception – they'll get there, but no more. When, for some time, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion sent a proposal for a stronger state involvement in the settlement of refugees, it became a ramask rich. KS strongly protested what was perceived as coercion. NTNU was commissioned by the KS to review the whole process from an application for residence in a municipality. A main recommendation was to place the question of refugee housing as part of the municipality's regular housing and housing services. In April this year, a new agreement was reached between the CS and the State on the settlement of refugees, both of which are to contribute. This year, 5.1 billion has been allocated. kr for the integration grant. New 250 million. kr will come in 2014. The grant of rental housing for refugees and other priority groups is increased by up to 40 p.m., because lack of housing is the main reason why rapporteurs and advisers state no to refugees. But we're still in the situation that the number of people who are stuck in reception is increasing. This year, 360 municipalities are asked to receive 9,765 people. The decisions alone add up to 5,812, which is a deficit of almost 4,000. Then we see in society around us a strong commitment among rapporteurs and others for people who have not been allowed to stay in Norway. I think it's really nice that people care. But I would have wished many times that the engagement had been the same for those who are here persecuted and need protection, who cannot travel anywhere, but are parked on a waiting room of varying quality. This is not possible, and it is absolutely necessary that the municipalities accept more. Yes, it is absolutely necessary that the municipalities receive all of them every year. This is not a one-off project, but a permanent task that must be included in the ongoing planning of municipalities. We see that there is a big difference between the municipalities. Almost 30 pst. does not accept anyone at all. 54 pst. accepts someone, but not all of them are asked for. Only 17 pst. says yes to the entire request. There's a distribution between the municipalities that might be a little bit unfair. I think there's a reason to ask yourself a question: what makes the difference so big between municipalities? Much indicates that it is primarily about the will and ability to find solutions in the municipalities. I have a few examples. Molde municipality won the Housing Prize in 2012. The reason was that the municipality has shown a willingness to settle many refugees over several years. Refugees receive a course on how to acquire owner-occupiers. Starting loans are used actively and dwellings are released to new refugees. Molde municipality is a municipality with 25 000 inhabitants. It was requested by the IMDI to settle 55 people in 2012. They decided to settle 55 people, and 53 people settled. In 2013, the municipality was asked for 55 people, and 55 people were adopted to live. 79 pst. are in work or education after completion of the introduction programme in 2012. We could say that Molde is a great municipality. But we can take the trip to Kvinesdal, a municipality of 5,800 people, the only municipality in the Agder counties that has responded positively to the request from the IMFI in the last two years. There politicians regard the settlement of refugees as an enrichment for the countryside. They build housing, cooperate closely with local business and deliberately focus on training for newly arrived refugees as an approach to combating child poverty. In 2012, they were asked to live in 15 people, and 15 people lived in them. Corresponding in 2013: They were requested to settle for 25, and receive 25. They have a positive attitude to keep doing that. We could move on to other municipalities, but I don't have time for that. I think this illustrates an important point. This is also about the will and ability of the municipalities, and not just about money from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1712	It is important that people can live, live and work throughout the country. The precondition for having a good municipal economy and the state now plays an important role in the budgets provided from this room. We are responsible for enabling municipalities to provide good and public welfare services abroad. The municipal sector has received and will receive a significant economic boost with the red-green government both next year and years ahead, if we continue after the elections. It's in the municipalities people live their lives. That's where the good breeding communities are. It's where the local people elected every single day contribute to the development of the communities and welfare services that we depend on. Since we took over the government in 2005, there have been several thousand new annual works in the municipal sector and in the public sector. This is annual work that has gone to several employees in kindergartens who give children and young people a safer upbringing. There are several thousand employees in schools who provide better learning conditions for children and young people and who are now showing good results on international tests. In addition, many more people work in health care, school health services, etc. The quality of municipal services needs to be further improved. It is therefore right that there should also be increased competence and recruitment. The lifting of competences may be decentralised, so that people in the districts can do this in combination with work. One of several measures taken by the red-green government is «Saman om ein better kommune». 110 municipalities deal with important issues such as sick leave, full-time/part-time, competence, recruitment and reputation. It is correct and important that municipalities themselves find local solutions to their needs and challenges. It is best done in cooperation between employees, employee organisations and the public. This is what is called the ‘Norwegian model’. I see in the Municipal Report of 13 June 2013 under the heading ‘Do not want to be ‘samant about a better municipality’. Here we can read that trade unions are breaking the cooperation with Right-Handed municipalities, and with the municipality of Stord, who has the rapporteur from the Right. The municipality is breaking down cooperation with employee organisations and will expose and privatise several municipal welfare schemes. It has not been understood what the ‘Norwegian model’ is, and what is needed to provide better welfare services around the country. Local cooperation between elected representatives, administrative management, employees and trustees is a prerequisite for developing high-quality local welfare services. The population survey was recently presented. 96 pst. Of those living in the country, they are happy to live and live in Norway. There are slight differences between countries. Citizens are more satisfied with public services than ever before. There are high-quality services and the public is a good provider of these welfare services. In addition, Norway is known year after year by the UN for one of the world’s best lives and lives. The problems we have, whether in the public or private sector, need to be resolved jointly, and the market cannot solve all these challenges alone. It is we, both at Stortinget, in the counties and in the municipalities, who must facilitate good development in employment and not least in housing, so that people want to live and live around the whole of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1731	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1735	There are three things I want to touch on in this debate. First of all, this debate is about the most important thing: the future perspective of our country and, most importantly, the welfare perspective – those who are going to meet the population and provide services. Initially, I want to praise and support the representatives – Bekkevold started, and it was well taken care of by Christoffersen – who raised the question of the settlement of refugees. I find it strange that so many, including leading local peaks, may be very concerned with individual cases — individual sheds — people who either get no decisions or yes decisions — while at the same time being so often absent from the main challenge: having children and older refugees in Norway settled in the municipalities as quickly as possible. I really hope that this debate sends out a clear signal. For the others, it is absolutely crucial for how this country will develop in the future that, within the rules of accountability in the economy, we are able to give proper priority. That's where I think the council and the government should have a big reward. Over these years, it has been possible to prioritise the growth of municipal care and community activities, as we see from the documentation, 67 billion. spent NOK where the well-being is created. The major theme of Norwegian policy towards the election campaign must be: Those who want to cut, those who want to contribute to large tax credits for those who have the most, also have to take responsibility for identifying where to cut if you want to do so under the rules of action. We say from our side that you don't cut taxes until it shines with the care of the elderly. You could also say before there are many of the other care tasks available. Thirdly, I want to mention, which I think is important, and which I also think we have been given some clarification in this debate, the Right approach to how we should distribute the tax credits – the tax equalisation. If it really is, the Right would want the tax's share of the municipality's total income to be 50 pst. – The representative Tetzschner, in his reply to Ingalill Olsen, pointed out that the tax rate would ideally be higher. If you are going to have a share of the corporation tax, then you have taken the consequence of what that kind of distribution and direction of the tax equalization will mean, among other things. for the tax-deprived municipalities? To take my own state: this would mean that all municipalities will have a significant cut – Ringsaket 30 million. kr, Elverum 16 million. NOK, and I could mention more. That kind of bias I think absolutely there is reason to get enlightened. I am so glad that we have some clarity in this debate from the representative of Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1748	The municipalities of the country are the carriers of our welfare society. They are a welfare provider, a service provider and a service institution. Politics is a priority, and we give priority to increasing the economic power of municipalities, so that citizens can find security that their municipalities deliver good welfare offers with top quality. Yes, politics is a priority. The government's priorities include: Three billion. SEK to rainforest fund – we prioritize 2.5 billion. kr to the municipalities. The government prioritizes opera and fine culture – we prioritise a best possible school for our children. Yes, the government is beating its chest here today and boasts of an increase in the municipal sector. At the same time, they know just as well as we do that this whole thing is drained from demographic costs and pension liabilities. I represent More and Romesdal, and I thought it was wonderful to hear the representative Christoffersen boast of the policy of the Advance Party and the Right when it comes to refugees in the municipality of Molde. Unfortunately, however, in my county we see the realities of government policy – worn-out school buildings, cut in the number of teachers and long waiting times in the BUP and the PPT. In some places, the indoor climate in schools — the indoor climate of our children — would not have been recognised even in the country’s poultry. The government claims to have ambitions for the school, but does not provide the school with financial resources to reach them. Chief Trust Officer of the Molde School League, Terje Røvik, said it so strikingly: ‘It’s like being asked to put up in sprints and so few distributed wooden shoes’. Another problem is the lack of follow-up to the Interaction Reform. Several municipalities have already more than used up the funds they have transferred to ready-to-print patients and treatment in hospitals, because they do not have sufficient hospital facilities. Older people, sick people and caregivers are throwing balls in a system that is so economical that you don't have the opportunity to make a good enough offer. They're being thrown into a system that's being forced to lay down hospitals because the government doesn't give priority to giving enough money. We have a system where everyone goes, except schoolchildren, sick, elderly, nursing, psychiatric patients, drug addicts or others who don't fit into the government's created A4 template. Yes, politics is a priority. We're prioritizing $2.50. kr more to the municipalities. It's equal to over 119 million. kr just to my county, More and Romesdal. This is precisely what we are doing to ensure that we reach the ambitions we have on behalf of Norwegian school, precisely to ensure that the elderly do not become wasteballs in the welfare system, and to ensure that we have good welfare arrangements for all the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1764	Since 2006, we have had good development in our municipalities. The economy is perceived as tight, but good, and the people are very satisfied with the services they receive. It is good and shows that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility and that large local freedom operates within a good framework. In this year's municipal proposal, the evaluation of intercommunal cooperation is discussed. I am a hot defender of the fact that the municipalities cooperate both to improve the service offered to the inhabitants and to get the most out of every penny they use. Cooperation leads to the renewal, strengthening and necessary changes in the provision of services and to better legal certainty for citizens, especially in vulnerable areas such as child protection. However, what needs to be given great attention in such cooperation is openness and transparency to elected and citizens. It is a major challenge both in intercommunal companies and in intercommunal limited liability companies. Increased privatisation and outsourcing of services, for which the Right and the Advance Party are so strongly involved, will certainly lead us in the wrong direction in terms of transparency and transparency in the municipal sector. However, inter-municipal cooperation has a limit and aggregation can therefore be natural. Of course, this applies in the large and central municipalities, where there is a short distance between town halls. But that also applies to the greater part of our smaller municipalities. But there is no simple debate, and we must not try to make it work like that. In my home country, Nord-Trøndelag, we have several municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. One of them is Leka, an island municipality with approx. 600 inhabitants. It's one of the most natural and exciting island communities you can pick up, where it's all on the border of Northernland. But there are major challenges there – not only economically but also in the lack of human resources in the administration and in the health and education sector. In a look-up in the regional newspaper, an older working party leader on the saga island said that now was the time to join one of the neighbouring municipalities, despite long distances and winding travel routes. He received a reply from the rapporteur that the most important thing for Leka now was to survive as his own municipality. He reasoned that when merging with another municipality, both the school and the hospital would disappear. It would mean disaster for the inhabitants and for the community of Leka. That is the experience of the rapporteur. Mergers lead to the disappearance of services and thus local communities. I hope the council and others take a trip to Leka during the summer. Society for which this needs attention and some to present their views.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1781	The municipal bill for 2014 shows that during the last eight years the government has invested heavily in the municipal sector. This has also been one of the main political objectives of the Central Party. From 2005 to 2013, the income of the local government sector has actually increased by 67 billion. kr. In 2014, too, provision has been made for the continued development of municipal services, both in scale and in quality. That's good. Demographic developments will increase public welfare needs over the next few years. By 2040 there will be almost twice as many people over 67 years of age. If we are to be able to keep up today's facilities and the level of services, there will be a need for many more to be added to the health and care sector. Better organisation so that people can live longer, more use of technology, more elements of voluntary, new relatives' policies and greater commitment to prevention and everyday rehabilitation will be among the most important initiatives in the years to come. It is also important to remember that relatives make considerable efforts – yes, care efforts by volunteers and families have been about as high in the number of annual works as the public efforts in the municipal care sector. The representative Gjermund Hagesett criticised the care of the elderly in Norway and believes it is a paradox that one of the richest countries in the world has such – after his appointment – bad conditions. Perhaps the representative of Hagesetter can refer to another European country that has improved public care and is equally accessible regardless of income, work and social conditions? We're at the top of hospital coverage. We are also among the countries with the highest coverage of public home care and home care. In fact, in many other countries, perhaps most of them, the family has to take a much greater responsibility either financially or personally, or both, for the care of the elderly and for their parents than is the case in Norway. In Norway, it is the public that is the main source of care and care. We're going to be proud of that, and we're going to talk about that. Of course, there are challenges in the care of the elderly in Norway, but that is precisely why we have started the Cooperation Reform, which is a declaration of trust to the municipalities and the municipal health services. It is a policy reform in the health sector with a focus on prevention and decentralisation of supply. In addition, we have adopted tomorrow’s Nursing Communication, which sets the strategy for the further development of care provision. The centre party believes that those responsible for the services must also be financially responsible. State survey documentation policy for care services for the elderly will promote disease and disability. It will not give one ear to prevention and measures to prevent disease and functional loss in individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1798	The progress party always has more for all good purposes than all other parties, so it is also in the municipal sector – so it is exactly as it has always been. I'd like to balance the statement to Hagesets about KS. For KS, it has said that the arrangement in the municipal bill for 2014 and the growth is necessary. Of course, they want more – it's their job. The growth clearly shows that it is moving forward. Since 2005, 10 000 more employees in municipalities have been added annually — every year. This shows a proper direction. It also makes the growth visible. Garden seats were also inside ROBEK. There are 49 municipalities in ROBEK and 116 municipalities. It was actually a quarter of the municipalities that were in ROBEK in 2005. There is a difference between that and it clearly shows the direction that the local economy has been improved. Gardensets were in the care of the elderly. He says that framework funding is a socialist system, and that there are totally unacceptable conditions in the care of the elderly. All the parties in our committee minus the Progress Party are in favour of framework funding, so both the Right and the Christian People's Party must be socialists, in the opinion of the Advance Party. I have to say that it is not the term ‘socialist’ that strikes me when I hear Michael Tetzschner’s posts – but perhaps a little bit more under the representative Bekkewold’s posts. Gardening kits use Austevoll as an example. Then I ask: have employees' wage and pension conditions become worse in privatisation? Has it become more effective that Austevoll has had to employ three to four people in order to manage this competitive environment? Being able to choose between fish and meat for dinner every day – is it freedom of choice, and is that what is meant? I haven't been to a hospital, but I've been to a public hospital in this town, and to say it right out: I could choose between many dinners – and that in a public hospital. In Austevoll they have had an advance party rapporteur for ten years. It took ten years to choose between meat and fish. Why couldn't they get it when there were public servants there? I want to comment on some of what Michael Tetzschner brought up. He says that there is a distrust between the state and the municipality. It's possible there's a sense of abstinence between parts of the municipalities and others. A felt balance may be completely impossible to achieve, but it is a goal to strive for. I will come back in a later article about why it is like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1817	I hope I manage to make an article that makes Ingelill Olsen's attempt to make me a socialist is not confirmed. I'm a Christian democrat and I'm proud to be. To the interaction reform: the Christian People's Party believes that there must be a binding quality reform that is followed up with real cost calculations. In line with the intention, the reform must be fully financed by State resources. We talked about this a little earlier. Local authorities have had major challenges since the entry into force of the Interaction Reform. The patients being discharged from the hospitals are sicker. Municipal staff have gone a long way to make the transition between the specialist health service and the municipal health service as good as possible for the sick person. In order to prevent rapid and unnecessary renovations, the Christian People's Party believes that municipalities need to be able to meet the challenges of getting more and better equipment and skills. The very intention of the cooperation reform was that it should be fully financed. Preliminary estimates show that the cost of municipal co-financing is about 120 million. kr higher than that transferred to the municipalities from the hospitals. Nearly 220 municipalities have higher costs than they receive compensation, giving them challenges in the other service provision in the municipalities. This means that municipalities are given less freedom of action and limited opportunities in other areas. That is why we are so concerned that this reform must be fully financed. I think it is good that the Council of State at least signals that she will follow closely this reform in the future as well. In addition to the fact that municipalities face economically uncertain times, the government also enjoys the rightful establishment of basic services for the population. The government finances, among other things: by submitting a proposal for an individual right to user-controlled personal assistance. This mechanism has been very important in promoting independence and independence for people with disabilities. We in the Christian People's Party believe that all those with disabilities who need it must have individual rights to this service right from the time of birth. For many, it is absolutely vital to feel independence and dignity. That is why I also took that into account in a reply earlier today. At the end of the day, the representative Ingalill Olsen had a little visit to me in her reply, challenging the Christian People's Party on cooperation with the Progress Party in the field of asylum and immigration policy. Last week, the Left and Christian People's Party was criticized by the First Vice-Chairman of the Advance Party, Per Sandberg, in the class struggle, because he believed that we were responsible for the long-term asylum children in the situation they were in. He used the term ‘the unworthy situation in which these asylum-seekers are’. I find that interesting – and it came from the Progress Party. I wonder, when shall we hear central labour party politicians use the term ‘unworthy situation in which these children are’? I miss that, and I think several of the cooperation parties are missing as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1834	Municipal economy is about people. It's about the primary health service, which takes care of people from where they are in their mother's life and right up to the end of life. It's about who takes care of our kids, from they start in kindergarten when they're one-year-olds, until they leave high school when they're 18. It's about who gives our older people help and care. It's about culture, living space, roads, clean water in the jump -- something else we take for granted -- yeah, almost everything in our lives outside our private sphere and the job. The municipalities were fed under the Bondevik II regime. The goal was for them to join forces, but I never quite understood why. Under the red-green government, the finances of municipalities have been strengthened, and we have got a fairer distribution between municipalities. However, when municipalities have to save in these economic planning periods, it is because they have not put the money on book. They have created almost 60,000 new annual works in the municipal sector. It is insinuated from the opposition and the media that it is bureaucracy that has increased – we heard that on the radio as late as today. In the municipal sector, 17 out of 18 new entrants are in production, only 1 out of 18 are in administration. The services of the municipality are important for people, but all opposition parties will now merge the municipalities with coercion. KS, with a leader who is previously profiled as a right-wing politician, goes out clearly and wants to merge municipalities. The centre party is not against the community grouping where local communities want it, but it has to be decided locally. Right will have four municipalities in Hedmark. What would a person achieve with that? The municipality in the north will be larger in area than Oslo, Akershus, Østfold and Vestfold together. Why do you want to remove capable small municipalities? Municipalities that are small in number of people but large in area. The municipal survey shows that these small municipalities north of Hedmark are among the best in the country to provide municipal services. I believe that some of the secret is that small municipalities have a short way between the inhabitants and the municipality's management and the elected representatives. They have a good overview of the needs of their inhabitants and operate effectively. Yesterday we were able to read in Today's Business on six rapporteurs in Follo, and their attitude to community mergers for their municipalities. Most of them are right-wing rapporteurs, and they were also highly doubtful about aggregation, even the distances there are very short. I'll quote one: ‘Large-scale operation, all right. But there are many disadvantages. We have already seen them when it comes to Nav and the police. I don't know what the Right and the other opposition parties will achieve with a massive municipal merger, but I'm actually wondering if they want worse municipal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1850	In the previous debate, the housing message debate, not least the Right and Advance Party were very concerned with the ownership line, in front of the rental line. It's totally seaworthy, especially when you have money, so it's in case the disadvantaged that maybe for a few years have to pay in, before they start owning. In order to afford security and better management of values, is the most economically efficient, etc. Well, ownership is the main line of housing policy. When we go to the debate here, about the topic municipality, the operation of the municipality, municipal service production, it is suddenly more and more wrong to bet on the ownership line. Now it is ideal to own as little as possible – buy services or rent as much as possible. So now suddenly good management and efficiency are related to not owning, now it's related to being a good order. Local policy activity is then primarily linked to ordering services. Not owning and operating water, says both the Right Party and the Advance Party when the theme is not housing but municipal service production. OPS is the optimal — an order, and then hires one for 30, 40 or 50 years, with an approximation of the type ‘out of sight, out of mind’. But no, because when we think about it, it's the fact that the Progress Party has actually said something different at the same time. Local politicians are not the ones to order, they are the ones to order, according to their needs. In my opinion, this is precisely what threatens local democracy today. It is not the state that threatens local democracy. It is either the so-called user democracy – to take the variant of the Progress Party – where there is to be an interaction between user and state, or the ‘provider power approximation’, where it is the private provider of these services that is primarily transferred to, or the ‘order bureaucracy’ as a municipality, or a public institution, must build up to run just this game where one no longer owns, but buys and rents. While the representative Åge Starheim in his speech is concerned about the lack of freedom of priority for the municipalities because there is too little money out and going, and the representative Mette Hanekamhaug is looking for the same thing, the representative Gjermund Hagesetter has said the very opposite: the municipalities should not have more money, it is the state that needs more money, for this must be user-driven – the user must report a need to the state, and then the state must pay. This must be clarified at some point in time by the Progress Party: is it the State that needs more money, is it the user who is to coordinate with the State, or is it the local politicians who are to have more freedom to determine both the content and the scope of municipal services?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1863	I want to add something to the previous speaker said. He took up some confusion about the policy of the Progress Party, because the representative Åge Starheim said that the lack of funding from the state weakened the freedom of the municipalities to give priority to local policy concerns. But what you're adding from the Progress Party side is the eartags. There is no possibility of prioritising local policies when an eartag has the resources and, in addition, of taking over the main areas of the municipalities by state. I also ask that this be clarified. It is important for the voters and for the political environment to know what the Progress Party really means. And there's other things that are the same thing as confusing. Earlier today, the representative Gjermund Hagesetter said that we regulate the municipalities too much by law and regulation. But in Question Time in the same room, the Progress Party has called for more interference, that is, stricter rules to prevent residential construction in areas where there is a risk of flooding and slipping. One day you will have less legislation, the other day you will have more – it may also be possible to clarify. So to the exchange of letters with the Right on tax evasion, which has been a repetition. Right draws a wrong picture of what they asked me about, and what we wrote in our letter from the department. It's been taken up in many contexts, and I think it might be nice to do something for it. Right asked us to calculate the effect of all the changes that were made in the income system since 2005. Of course, that's not possible, because there have been many changes in the cost equalization. It's also not interesting to look at the cost bias, because it's based on objective criteria. What we have been doing at all times is that our figures show the impact of the political components of the income of municipalities — in practice, the different regional preferences and different models for the distribution of tax revenue. Tax revenue is more than half of the free income of municipalities. Tax revenue is divided differently between municipalities. If we change the amount of revenue that comes from taxes, the tax receipts that the municipalities will receive, or the degree of equalisation of tax revenue, then there will be changes in the incomes of the municipalities, and that's just what we've shown with our calculations. Right has said that the number is wrong. I have time and time again abiding right to come up with their numbers, so we can do new calculations. Enno has no black. Right had been about being honest about what they stand for. They should admit that less tax evasion means that many municipalities will lose money. It's not so important if Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg loses $87 or $93 million. kr – but they lose. It's not so important if Ringerich loses 21 or 23 million. kr – but they lose. That's how we could frame a lot of municipalities. The rich are getting richer with the Right configuration, the poor are getting poorer. I'll call it classic right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1876	All opposition parties have made fun of the Central Party's municipal merger allergy. The left said the Center Party won't change anything. They must have missed something. Firstly, in the Central Party, we have programmed that we are in favour of voluntary community mergers. Secondly, I cannot achieve a single community merger in the last few years without the initiative of a central party municipality. In Sør-Trøndelag, we now have two municipalities, the central party-driven Ørland and Bjugn, who are in a process of assessing municipal mergers. The centre party, with the municipal minister, has made changes to make it easier to merge. The State now pays all the costs of a municipal merger and the municipalities retain the income for four years longer than before. It's very special to hear all the opposition parties talk about that they will have less government control, fewer objections, more room for action, less detailed legislation. Local government representatives are able to take care of national responsibilities. They know how to make all these decisions – they really know how to control most of the stuff themselves. But when it comes to municipal structure, they are totally incompetent. I really have to ask: what happened to me between the day I was rapporteur and had no idea what was best for my municipality when it was a municipal merger, and the next day when I went up the stairs here? It had kind of happened a miracle: I had been able to draw the new municipal map for the whole of Norway. I don't understand the logic here. Everyone has ‘less municipalities’ as a mantra. Last year there was a halving of the number of municipalities, this year it should be well below 100. Now I'm really waiting on the map. I believe the inhabitants of the 329 municipalities that are going away are very interested in which municipalities it is. To the representative Hagesetter: I can reassure him that correctly I am nearsighted, but I see the difference between him and Siv Jensen. I am sorry that I lived in the error that the two of them had a similar sense of reality in terms of the basic tasks of the municipalities. I can ask the question to the members of the Municipal Committee of the Progress Party in a different way: do you support the opinion of the party leader, that school and care for the elderly are not basic tasks? If the answer is yes, can you clarify to me what are basic municipal tasks? Is it just to make sure that there is more alcohol in the local store, that there are free donations – or are there any other tasks you think are fundamental to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1889	The President will kindly refer to Paragraph 53 of the Rules of Procedure that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1893	It would have been excellent for the quality of the word change if you focused on what was actually proposed, and on what was actually said. I noticed that Navarsete – based on the answer to my question in a previous row, where I asked her to explain the difference between the government's framework for Kommune-Norge and Right – understood and probably had the sense of what was the fasit, namely that we have had exactly the same framework. I therefore believe that there is no basis for continuing this starvation cure. Of course, any political direction of the country must be based on the economic cycle, the macroeconomic picture, when it distributes money further into the system. It made the representative of Syversen take the floor. He thought that the macro-economy would be affected if the government, i.e. The size, not taxed the population high enough. It's a misunderstanding. Money will not be lost if it is not drawn from the private sector — they will not be lost to society for that reason. I would like to maintain that it is largely the economic cycle and the macro-economy that underpin the financing of the welfare state in general – and of the municipal sector in particular, which we are discussing here today. To the question of the objective – a reasonable work objective – 50 pst. own resources and 50 pst. transfer income. We haven't presented this as a coercion, but it's reasonable over time to work in that direction. For the same reason, we also want individuals to make a good use of their own income opportunities and not live on government transfer incomes. After all, you're becoming more and more concerned with the possibilities you have than with the constraints. It was good to see that the hunger line between a former bourgeois government and the current, red-green, government can boil down to a difference in the growth path of 0.3 pst., which even the Workers' Party must have praise for having brought in that direction. You can't argue with both sides, that you first avoided an accident – and then argue as if it were an accident. Otherwise, I would say to the representative Hilde Magnusson that innovation is not just new techniques, it can be old techniques organized or mixed in a new way. It may even be such that it is necessary to put things down and to avoid duplication of treatment, for example. the county municipality – getting rid of the county municipality – is a large, innovative grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1908	With the Interaction Reform, Norwegian municipalities have been given a clearer responsibility for public health work and local health services. When visiting many municipalities, I see that this possibility of providing better services to the population is under attack, and the Health Directorate's 2012 key figure confirms this. The interaction reform shall prevent patients from being hospitalised after the treatment has been completed. It is good for the rehabilitation work and prevents hospital infections. Already the first year, we're halfway to the finish line. In order to provide a good professional offer to patients who cannot be printed directly to the home, municipalities have increased the number of short-term places in recent years. The health directorate’s figures also show that municipalities with many short-term locations have fewer days of immediate hospital help among their elderly. Part of public health work is helping to change the lifestyle of health interviewing, activities, changes in diet and smoking outcomes. This happens, among other things: in the Health Centres. It is very gratifying that the number of health centres is more than doubled from 2008 to last year. By 2016, all municipalities shall establish immediate assistance daily. It will reduce the number of long trips to hospitals for disease that can equally be treated with services in municipalities. Although the deadline is 2016, 111 municipalities have already applied for and received grants to start in 2012. Three out of four municipalities are planning to cooperate on the new solutions. It is important that hospitals do not print patients too early to the municipality, so that the number of new admissions increases. Here, the Health Directorate's figures show that there is a need for improvement. In 2010, the number of renovations was 16 pst. and in 2012 19 p.m. Both figures are too high, and hospitals and municipalities have to go through their professional routines. We're a very healthy people with a high standard of living. A boy born in 2011 can expect to be 79 years old, while girls can expect to be 83 years old. Why? Clean water, good spatial planning, good kindergartens and good health stations with vaccines are essential. Everything is municipal tasks, everything is done in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1923	Now there are more, including The representative Aksel Hagen, the municipal minister and the representative Heidi Greni, who has problems understanding our funding system and how we think about it. Well, I don't think I have enough time to explain it, because it seems like you have a little bit of a hard time understanding it. At least we've been trying to explain it for four years now, but I'll try again. In principle, we want basic welfare services in municipalities to be publicly funded. Schools, care for the elderly, health – the basic welfare services – shall be publicly funded. Then, of course, the municipalities don't need that much money, as this is financed by the state, so they want money to do the other tasks. Until we get this through, we stick to the framework licensing system we have today, which I claim is a socialist system, which doesn't work like a more market-adapted system would work. I would also like to stress that there is no disagreement whatsoever between the party leadership and the municipal fraction of the Progress Party in this area. We're on the whole line, we're quite a few about this. This is a policy that is well anchored in the Progress Party. Ingelill Olsen was concerned that the Progress Party always has more for all purposes. That's not correct. We don't have any more bureaucracy, we don't have any more fine culture, nor do we have more to the farmers than the Center Party has. We have a little bit of different priorities that come out in our alternative state budget. One of the things we've been up to in the past is putting off competition. Austevoll has a competitive attitude to care and care. It was based on 60 pst. quality, 40 pst. price. There has been a better provision for the inhabitants. We have faith in competition because it stimulates efforts, something monopoly does not. In Us, on the other hand, we also had a competitive outlook, but there was the municipality itself as the water supply. Unlike the red-green games, it doesn't matter to us whether it's the private or the public that drives it. The most important thing for us is that the inhabitants get the best services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1934	I have listened to this debate with interest and noticed that more representatives from the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left will have the individual calling for a municipal reform. It is a fine word for a large-scale fury of the municipal structure in this long-range country. The representative of Gjermund Hagesets prefers to have fewer than 100 municipalities, i.e., have at least 329 municipalities. If we assume that this is the smallest municipality, barely 1.3 million inhabitants will be directly affected because they live in a municipality that is then laid down. Everyone knows that the Center Party is the guarantor that there will be no coercion in the next period. We are in favour of volunteering, we are in favour of more and better cooperation between municipalities, we are concerned with the efficient operation of the municipal administrations – we have many capable rapporteurs and municipal government representatives in this country who contribute to it – and we are too good services. But we have confidence that the citizens are able to understand and decide on that question, and we believe that they will decide for themselves their own municipal borders, over their own municipal future. For the Central Party, this is about fundamental values, about democracy, about proximity between politics and administration, between people and politicians. With the Right and Advance Party – and with the support of the Left – questions about the municipal structure will be decided in this Chamber. So most people don't have to have the decisive word through referendum. It's called the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left Party. People don't have to decide for themselves anymore. Why do you do that? Of course, because you have to save money. You have to lay down schools, hospitals, change care for the elderly, and make sure you run more efficiently, as it's called fine. The parties Progress Party, Right and Left will deprive at least 1.3 million people of the opportunity to influence the choice of municipal structure and belonging themselves. The 1.3 million considerate – for those parties – the people who receive services in the municipalities, who receive care for the elderly, who use the schools, who use the kindergartens, should therefore not be allowed to decide how they want to organise it. It shall be done in this room. Are we calling that democracy? Yes, I call it the elite's democracy – the elite's democracy, which the Progress Party, the Right and the Left stand for in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1945	I would like to comment on some of the comments of the High Representative Tetzschner. He said that there was a great deal of distrust between the state and the municipality, and I understood that he wanted the state and the municipality to be more equivalent. The Labour Party is for local democracy, but we believe that state and municipality have different roles. The role of the state is, among other things, To balance, to make the country's inhabitants more like each other, and to provide equivalent services when we discuss the area of municipal economics. That's the starting point, and there the state has a completely different role than the municipalities. Tetzschner says it's good that we don't have eartags. There is historically low earmarking in the previous budget and in this municipal proposal. What Tetzschner says, cracks from the point of view of the Advancement Party. They want a lot more rights fixing. In this area, too, there is a great difference between the co-operation partners on the civil side. Tetzschner has also stated that they want a dispute resolution body. We have two dispute resolution bodies: one is aimed at child protection, and the other is linked to the cooperation reform, for ready-to-print patients. In addition, we have other conflict resolution bodies. The County Council is a body capable of resolving conflicts, and we have consultations with KS. We do not want a dispute resolution body. We don't want politics to be fair, we want political judgement to be used – by that it will be the best results. It looks like this debate is coming to an end, and I'm not going to pull it out anymore – if no one else contributes to it – so I want to say thank you for the debate. There have been exciting and good posts, and there have been clear differences between the batches in this area – this is how it should be. I also allow myself to say a thousand thanks to the municipal committee for the good cooperation we have had – despite the dividing lines of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1956	Some of the things that fascinate most with this and corresponding debates in this room are the seas of difference between representatives from the Right Party here – that is, on the Stortinget – and the representatives from the Right Party around the communities and the municipalities. In my county, Sogn and Fjordane, there is neither a municipal merger, a change in company tax, nor a device in the municipal key to benefit the richest municipalities that are the theme when I meet the Right People of Sogn and Fjordane. No – what are they busy about? They are concerned with a framework funding that addresses the challenges facing the municipalities in question, often with a focus on geography and distances – and precisely Norway’s differences. I can afford two for the Right Party. First, to listen more to local preselected people, but not least to be honest with them. What will the devices proposed by the Right Party today and in the budget year after year mean for many of the municipalities around this country – including too many Right-Handed municipalities? I think it would have been good if the people of Buland and the Værland in Askvoll knew that this scheme would amount to more than seven million. kr less annual to Askvoll municipality. How should Askvoll municipality cover up these funds? We can probably discuss different numbers, but the direction is very clear. They are one of the municipalities that will come out worse with the scheme that Right suggests. Yeah, what does that mean? That would mean a poorer offer for the kids in school and for the elderly in that municipality. This should be honest enough to say. 23 out of 26 municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane are losing on this scheme. You might want to skip some municipalities, but you might not get positive numbers out of it. I would like to end by repeating the two advices: Listen more to the local politicians, and be very honest with them as to what this scheme will mean for many people, including right-wing municipalities around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1967	The representative Tetzschner said that it was the macro-economy that determines the distribution or transfer to different sectors. Yes, in part, but the size of the priorities of different sectors is also determined by policy priorities. Right Michael Tetzschner is making it sound as if the Bondevik II government were making a big cut in the state budget. That one cut in was treasure. A cut in the tax -- it figured out how much money you had to prioritize to other areas. I also record that the Right still won't stick to the facts. Erna Solberg’s municipal structure – as she presented to Stortinget – was not 2,23 pst. growth, but 1.6 pst. There's a lot of billions in difference when you get a couple of years on such large sums. It is also a political priority that the government allocates the framework so that everyone can provide equivalent services. And as the representative Erling Sande said, there is no call around the country in the 373 municipalities that are losing on their right, that they are going to do about this. There is also no call out there that the Progress Party's municipal policy should be introduced – where one will cut the small municipality bill: 11.2 million. SEK for the municipalities of Nord-Troms and Finnmark, SEK 5.2 million. NOK too many municipalities around, e.g. The game, which was named here – 600 inhabitants on a small island. There are many such municipalities along the coast. You can't bring them in and merge them into countries, they must have potential for development. I've had visits by the spokesperson at Leka, and several young girls from there who made a very strong impression on me about how they want to fight for their municipality, their community, where they have belongings, and who they want to move back to and realize their life project once. There are many such young people out there, and they tend to know what kind of policy a Right Party government will lead and what map they will draw. They need to know what the economy is like – whether the municipality is merged or they should be able to continue as their own municipality. It should be honest before the election day of 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e1976	It's good to live and live in Norway. I wondered a little when I heard the debate here before today, because it wasn't like that on all the articles. But it's a fact that Norway is like an island in a Europe in crisis. It has really comels to the municipalities under the red-green government – and this notices. I myself was a Communist under the right last time they were in government, and it wasn't always as pleasant to sit down and cut down and cut down. I think there are also many right-wing spokesmen who are very happy that we changed government in 2005. With the right municipality, 23 out of 26 municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane would lose almost 100 million. Total kr – there are a lot of sick homes and teachers in the school. It would really go beyond the well-being of our municipalities. Is that really what we can expect from a government that has right hands on the rudder? I think the answer is yes, and I'll come back to that. Then I am also a little surprised when I heard the Progress Party say that they are concerned about their government's arrangement because it would weaken the municipalities' freedom to prioritize their wishes. I thought it was earmarking The Progress Party stood for and went in for. Elder care is a good example of what they mean here. It's a little hard to know if Right wants Ear Mark or not. But I guess that's in the familiar style of the time. So I'll say a little bit about the roadways of the state. It goes without saying that for a state like ours, Sogn and Fjordne, it would look bad when it's the population that's one of the criteria – at least when it counts as much as 50 pst. This point is probably something we should look at and take an extra round when we look at the county municipalities and the funding of them. Maintenance of tunnels should include: like to be scaled in here. It is much more expensive to maintain roads with many tunnels than without tunnels. I'm absolutely sure that this point will occupy us red-green much more than it will occupy a blue-blue government. It is quite right that the representative Hageseter from the Progress Party said in his post: the Progress Party has no more money for everything, not for agriculture and aid, which the Christian People's Party should pay particular attention to – and everyone who is occupied with living settlements and bustlings throughout the country. Finally, I would like to mention a post as the Right Empty last time they were in government: the Municipal Food Fund. We red-green filled them up again. Yeah, there's a big difference between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2002	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2005	There are posts of the calibre that we heard from the last two representatives, the Council of State, which is that the relationship between the state and the municipality is unfortunately characterized by a certain mutual distrust. That's what I started my main post with. It's precisely because you say that you give more money to the municipalities, in fact, there's more obligations than there's any money. We've allowed ourselves to point that out. I also believe that the whole starving medic can safely be killed today. Even Councillor Navarsete said it had been a growth, and it could not possibly be the same as breaking up in the municipal sector. It must be borne in mind that the tax reliefs introduced at the time were a follow-up to the new tax system, which had to be reduced to income taxes in order to equalise capital taxation – and to note that the red-green government did not increase these tax rates when they had occasion to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2014	The representative Gjermund Hageseter has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. It may be a few, but the president will still remind us that we have a long night ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2020	I'm recording that the red-greens haven't completely coordinated their attacks on the Progress Party. While the representative Ingelill Olsen says that the Progress Party always has more for everyone, the representative Ingrid Heggø says that the Progress Party has no more for everyone. The pheasant is our alternative state budget. It shows exactly how we prioritise, and that's good, useful reading for everyone. Otherwise, I also record that some people compare Norway with the rest of Europe and say: See how good it is in Norway, and how bad it is in Europe! Well, that's not thanks to the government. Thank you for having our lucky and found oil, and we have an oil price of over $100. I believe that if Greece and Italy had had the corresponding riches that Norway has, they would have done well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2029	The reason why I have signed up is the articles of the Centre Party here – especially the post of the representative Breck. He claims that the reason for wanting a community merger is that you want to save money. I don't think you're going to save any money on merging municipalities. You may save a rapporteur's salary. It's possible it's going out on the central part of the lot, but I don't think it's the big, crucial part. The reason why the Left is to merge municipalities is that we think there'll be more local democracy because we can delegate more tasks if the units are large enough. We want to delegate a lot of power to the municipalities, so we need to have larger units. If we are to do what we mean – in many fields in the Norwegian welfare state – by moving more power to the municipalities, we must have municipalities that are able to take those tasks, just as the Central Party writes in the setting of the government message, which I referred to in my main post. What this is a struggle about is whether we're going to delegate more power to the municipalities or continue as before, so that they evolve more and more into branch committees. I understand that there will be many whole-day politicians in the Center Party having this branch selection strategy, but I think it's bad for local democracy. The left has always fought from this pulpit for a strong local democracy. We have never struggled to save money primarily with such models, but we want to shift power down – much more power down than what we have under this government. So I understand from yesterday's press conference to the Center Party that the main strategy is that everything should be exactly as it is, and that the Center Party is almost about to adopt the Conservative ideological tradition of the Right. They like to run election campaigns, but they have to be so honest that they refer to what we're actually talking about. None of us have said a word about saving money through this reform, but we are going to make better services and more local democracy. It's going to be the starting point of the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2040	To the representative Tetzschner: Yes, there was also growth during the Bondevik government, but he did not cover the costs we had for changing population – demography. Therefore, there was a great cut in the municipalities. Like the representative Heggø, I was also a local and regional politician in those years, and it was quite familiar with the body. Difor came 118 municipalities on the ROBEK list. Nextman on the list of speakers, representative Lars Myraune, had a full-page look-up in Trønder-Avisa on 15 October 2005, where he said: "I told Erna Solberg a long time ago that if the government does not improve the local economy, we will lose the election." ‘The government has not listened to my advice’, said Myraune in the statement in Trønder-Avisa, entitled ‘The speaker is pleased with the change’. Obviously, it may not be said that even in the Right's own rows one saw that the course one was at for the municipalities was quite wrong. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, is talking about grassroots democracy, talking about the smaller municipalities with an arrogance that is not really common from that edge – Trine Skei Grande is not arrogant – and talking about Center Party conservatism. But it's actually the Center Party that's gone off the hook for the municipal conspiracies that have been. I see a few left-wing spokesmen who are in charge of a municipal merger. We have one in my county. I haven't heard that he's been high on the barricades of municipal convergence. It also doesn't have Right-Original or Progress Party managers. They're sitting with their hands in jail and yelling at the Stortinge to thank you. That's what I thought was pretty ridiculous. If they think it's so negative for their own municipality that they don't want to put it on the agenda themselves, they might want to ask themselves if that's what they're going to spend the next few years. The representative Hoksrud of the Progress Party had a difficult tiara about the policy on trade. I can't use more of the time today to report me several times, but I just want to say that I was in Vrådal in February. I have run Telemark both across and across – not to say the whole country across and across – and have seen many good and bad roads. And it's not that all the dues that are in the road sector have come during this government's time in the Council of State offices. We have raised the budgets, and in the counties they are lifted monthly. Traffic jams are particularly high, but not least the general framework that can also be used for commercial investment. And there are many states. In fact, one also uses the general growth of the municipality to give priority to important infrastructure in its counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2058	I understand that the statement in Trønder-Avisa about the time I was rapporteur at Frosta has received a fine look in the Ministry of Local Affairs, and I have heard it referred to earlier. What made me speak in this debate was when the Council of State spoke so warmly about Leka. Now I know the rapporteur at Leka quite well, and I know why he made a visit to the Ministry of Local Affairs a few weeks ago. It was not because the current government gives him more than enough or enough to drive the municipality. It was precisely because he saw no possibility to operate the municipality with what this government has given it. So he has actually smelled about whether he – not to thaw Leka into the mainland, but – would get services from the mainland. I was not satisfied with the allocation in 2005. That's absolutely correct. But at least we rocked the municipal economy without imposing property taxes. Now there's the Central Party rapporteur in the country, and they're introducing property taxes because they have to. They are not allocated enough to operate the municipality. So I don't think it's right that the council boasts that now it's so much better than before. What is the matter is that yes, there has been more money for the municipalities, but the big thing is that there have been so many more assigned tasks for the municipalities. It is a burden for very many municipalities around Norway. When it comes to community mergers, I shouldn't say so much about it. It's a rather difficult matter, and I'm going to admit that in some cases the Center Party has a point in that context. We have to remember that we have to look at the inhabitants. Those are the ones you're going to serve. There's another solution. I've lived in Germany for many years. There you had different types of municipalities. You had smaller municipalities with less responsibility, and you had large municipalities with a lot of responsibility. It's kind of what we've done a good part of in central Norway, where you've merged municipalities, and where you have problem solving in common, and there's absolutely one way to do it. Since this is my last post in this room, I would like to remind you of my first post. There I expressed my hope that in this period the old term 'all power in this hall' could come back. This is my last post, and I will be allowed to state that I have registered that all power did not come back in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2071	I'm not going to try to draw this out too far, but it was necessary to take the word to parts of the history that were done here. First of all, this difficult question of community reunification, which has also become a mantra by the speakers of the Central Party today. I'm surprised that the Central Party in its reflection around it at least sees that we all have a slightly different responsibility here and a different approach to that issue as rich politicians than as local politicians. At least it should be of interest to dwell on the thought. But perhaps it is just the experience with the regional reform or what is called the administrative reform, which ended up moving two thirds of the national roads to the counties and some other trifle – it was the only thing left after the major regional reform we were going to have in Norway – that is behind it. So until the numbers that the state council is still coming back to. I have figures from the Council of State's own proposal plus the TBU's 2012 report, and the figures that the representative Tetzschner has referred to several times are entirely consistent with the figures in these reports. It is found that there was narrowhans throughout the Commune-Norway throughout the 1990s – on average. It was also tough in 2001 and 2002, but then growth started again in municipalities. Then the red-green government had a very good year in 2006, but after that you are on the same level as the Bondevik II government. Then there is also reason to ask the same question as I asked the representatives here in a previous debate: why has the debt increased so enormously in the municipalities? Why has it become so that more and more municipalities resort to property taxes that they prefer not to apply? And why is it that every day, almost every day, we read in the newspapers that the inhabitants do not get the offer they think they are entitled to? Of course, it is an explanation that it is not as good in the municipalities as special representatives from the Workers' Party have said that it does, and they are so proud of it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2082	The representative, Trine Skei Grande and I were born in the same region, we're both tammings, at least initially. I still live in Vikna, she's moved to Oslo. We have a common starting point, a common culture, but we are very different in terms of the perception of how we should further develop democracy and especially local democracy in this country. The left says they want better services and more local democracy. It means larger municipalities. That also means, of course, coercion, which is not mentioned directly by those who are on the platform here. Why don't you draw the left map? Why don't the Left and the other parties explain what they want that map looking like? It's important for most people to know who's being subjected to the kind of coercion that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left speak for. Why don't the Progress Party, Left and Right, dare to listen to people? There are still 1.3 million people living in the municipalities that, at least, the Progress Party has told them to coerce. Why don't the Left, the Advance Party and the Right dare listen to people most? It's very important – probably – that people around the country face a situation where most people don't want to be coerced. They circle around the municipality they are residents of, they are happy with the politicians they choose, they perceive that they have good services largely around the country. And then, of course, we can further develop services, we can do things better, and it can also be that some places you have to make changes in structure, but on a voluntary basis. What I'm still asking is, why do you go away from listening to most people, why should it be determined in this room? To the representative Halleraker, who says that we, as parliamentarians, have a different responsibility than local politicians: yes, the Central Party believes in local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2093	For me as a center party, it's a good thing to be close to those who rule. I also think it is good and necessary to be close to services. That's why it's interesting to hear, when you have an inescapable belief that a community merger is going to lead to better services: how is it going to get better when a citizen is going to get a longer way to those who rule and maybe even a longer way to services? It will be interesting to see how the Left's rhetoric about local democracy should go hand in hand with the Advance Party's desire for more state-making of services. There has been increased investment in the municipal sector under the red-green government – no doubt about it. I remember very well as a local politician when the former municipal and regional minister, Erna Solberg, stood and met us outside the high block outside the prime minister's office and said: not a penny more to the municipalities. There's something else now. In 2012, there were 300 municipalities with growth in the population. There were 101 more than in 2005 when we took over. In 2012, there were 180 municipalities with population growth, compared with 84 when we took over in 2005. The municipalities bet, they build the welfare, they make sure that there are more people working at school, they have built up kindergartens, they make sure that we get more hands in care, they get to bet on nutrition and housing and do a very good job in my view. We're gonna be proud of that. Then it surprises me that you're so negative about what's happening out there, saying that district policy doesn't work, and that you have to convert services to the state. I heard the representative Siv Jensen say that some of the major tasks were removed from the municipalities in terms of health and school, so the municipalities could concentrate on the really important tasks. And what are the important problems? For me and the Center Party it's having good welfare services near people – that's what's important, and it's got the red-green government doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2102	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. The President will allow himself to recall that there are 25 more things on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2107	I notice, President, that it does the President every time I draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2112	I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2115	It's so that the left is for more local power. So it will be a shorter road to power than it is under today's government. If you move power from the state down to the municipal term, the shorter term becomes sail if it might be one and a half kilometers further to the municipal government meeting. We believe that we are listening to the municipalities that are working on this, and in fact there are some rapporteurs in the Left who are also working to get larger regions around them. One of those who work actively with it is for example. Our rapporteur in Hurdal, who sees that he is not able to build up the professional environment well enough, is unable to raise the huge investment needed if there is no more to do so, because it is the way that most people want good services. We don't want coercion, we want municipalities to gain more power and then have the opportunity to create those regions. We've seen that they do it in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2123	The municipal structure we have today was set early in the 1960s. Then it was time to get a phone, and the car was not exactly everyone's. So there's been a slight development in those years. Society has become more modern, and distances have become shorter. When the Progress Party proposes to change the municipal structure and get fewer and larger municipalities, it is in order to improve the professional environments of the small municipalities that are currently unable to perform the services they are going to perform. At the same time, we want new tasks to be assigned to the municipalities from the state and the county council, so that you get a better local democracy, that municipalities get real tasks to work with, and not least that they also get resources to work with them. Now it's like KS is also positive for aggregation. Many municipalities are positive for bundling – just not for their own municipality. Almost all municipalities see that changes in the municipal structure are needed today, and are willing to look at changes, but as I said, they are a little more sceptical about their own municipality. I understand that the centre party is not a large supporter of a community merger. A party that has its party program written in runes is not exactly a party that views development and modernisation as the very big one. But what's important about community mergers is that you still get close to services, and you get a bigger and better professional environment. Then there's one thing that's often stressed; that you're going to have closeness to town hall. Ask the locals: How many times a year are you in town hall? How many times do you visit certain services in the municipality? People also ask: Where are your municipal boundaries going – between you and the neighbouring municipality? The answer is very often absent. That's what's important. There's a lot of heart that controls this debate, and then you don't think about consequences and what can be better with a community merger. What's important is that municipalities get new tasks, that they get money that comes with these tasks, and that they get a better and bigger professional environment, so that they can give a much better service to the inhabitants of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2143	It's interesting to listen to articles about municipal structure, because it shows a fixation to the inhabitants of the smaller municipalities that I would like the inhabitants themselves to sit and listen to. Then they might have had a slightly different vision than they have on individual parties. Today's municipal structure is not a big problem. We don't have many, nor do we have very small municipalities in Norway, compared to other countries. A large-scale remediation of municipalities does not change the Norwegian geography – if you do not want to move people or services. I want us to build bridges and roads to people where they live, not like the previous government, who used it as a bait for one to merge. Poor people in Bjarkøy – we saw how it went – it hasn't been much bridge, but they joined Harstad. Recently, numbers came from the Digi community survey, which showed that users of municipal services in smaller municipalities are more satisfied with the services they get than they are in larger ones. But based on what has been said here today, I believe that the same representatives believe that these inhabitants have not understood enough to understand that they should be more dissatisfied with the services they get. We have taken action to identify skills challenges in the municipal sector. We recently received a report on the situation of competence, and the distribution shows that today's knowledge gives relatively little insight into how municipalities are equipped to meet key developments. We follow up what we do in direct communication with the municipalities and through more research. We are concerned that we should have good competence in the municipalities, but also the competences that exist in Norwegian municipalities today are being greatly underestimated. Then I hope that at least through the election campaign, if not before, we will know what big tasks the left will add to the municipalities. One talks a lot about power and tasks to the municipalities. It would also be interesting to know a little bit more specifically what it is going to be, and how one will get an impact on those proposals together with the Progress Party, which both here and elsewhere clearly indicates that they will centralize power, from the municipalities to the state. If we see the debate here in conjunction with the options made available for the regional and regional notification and national transport plan, where the Right and the Progress Party will more or less liquidate district policy, I am quite concerned about Norwegian districts if they are to gain power in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2160	The representative, Heidi Greni, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2163	I didn't intend to extend the debate, but when the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen could tell me that the distances have become so much smaller, I really have to draw up the municipal map as the candidate from the Progress Party in the South-Tronde Team, drawn in advance of the national meeting of the Progress Party. There were Holtålen, Røros, Tidal and Selbu municipalities merged into a municipality – not a large unit in general, we have still not passed 20,000 inhabitants, but the municipality is then well and well as large as the Westfold counties. What complicates this little bit is that two of the municipalities are located in the Neadalsfähret, and the other two municipalities are located in the Gaul valley. You have then completely disregarded geography – which I hope the candidate from Sør-Trøndelag has some knowledge of – and it will still take at least three hours to drive from one end of the municipality to the other. In addition, the municipality centre was supposed to be at Røros. I'm not quite convinced that the cell builders share that idea. They have never had a living and working region that has had anything to do with that region.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2172	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2186	In this case, the Progress Party asks the Government to ensure that foreign citizens employed in the public sector have sufficient Norwegian skills to ensure good quality and to prevent misunderstandings in the meeting between the users of public services and public sector employees. Particular emphasis is placed on the importance of good communication with health professionals, but also in kindergartens and schools and in public transport. The party of progress has raised the matter earlier in this majority period, through a written question to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church. The Committee also asked for the Minister’s opinion in this matter. She now replied, as in the previous round, that it is the individual undertaking itself that is responsible for recruiting qualified staff for vacancies and assessing the requirements to be imposed, including: to Norwegian knowledge. At the same time, she points out that after 1 September of this year mandatory tests will be carried out for those with a right and/or obligation to participate in training in Norwegian and social sciences. Such documentation will be useful for employers to recruit new employees. In addition, language training will be one of several actions in the forthcoming action plan for better use of the skills of immigrants in the labour market. The introduction of language requirements for certain health professions shall be considered. Money is allocated to the current budget for language training for health professionals. An instructor for the addition of health professionals has been developed, highlighting the importance of language skills. The Committee shares the view of the proposers that the management of Norwegian is important in order to ensure good quality in the public service, but the other parties agree with the Council of State that this must be the responsibility of individual employers, whether national or municipal. The majority, which consists of all the other parties, therefore argues that the proposal for this to be a State overall responsibility is rejected. I assume that the Progress Party itself addresses the proposals they have made on the matter. Finally, I would also like to highlight a point made by the majority in the case in their comments. Where the proposers indicate that immigration to Norway affects the composition of public sector employees, they should also not forget that it also applies to the users of public services. The fact that employees also control languages and know cultures other than Norwegian is also a resource that increases the quality of the services provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2199	Let me start at the point where the case rapporteur concluded, namely that it is positive that we have public service employees who also master other languages. I totally agree with that, but when they just master other languages, it's not that positive. It is a prerequisite that when one is in public service in Norway, one must be able to speak Norwegian and communicate with both colleagues and users of the service. There have been long-standing media-related situations in which users of public services are met with non-Norwegian-speaking employees. We have examples of fixed doctors who are unable to communicate, who are unable to understand what the patient is saying, and who are unable to communicate to the patient what might happen. We have several examples of this. Then we have some examples of kindergarten employees. There have been complaints from parents who are unable to communicate with the employees in the kindergarten where their children go. They are unable to communicate what is to be said about the child who may be special, nor are they receiving feedback from the employees, because the employees are unable to communicate. We also have examples of nurses who have language problems, and especially in the case of doctors and nurses, this creates a number of situations that are not only unpleasant but can become directly dangerous. We have examples of mismedication, and we have examples of communication that has gone so wrong that there has actually been a risk of life. When we have such situations, and we are not willing to see if we should perhaps have a national norm, a national target, namely that those who are going to work in the public sector and communicate with users should be able to understand Norwegian, then we have a problem in Norway. This is not about whether a nurse comes from Moldova or from Romania. There is no requirement for those from Europe – in the EEA area – but when we use Moldova and Romania as an example, it is because they speak Romanian in both countries. For the moldover, it is a requirement to be able to Norwegian when to work in Norway, but for the Romanian, this is not a requirement. I don't understand the logic of it, and I don't think anyone else does either. We have another example, which is scary. This applies to co-judges in Norwegian courts who are unable to understand what the case is about, but who are involved in making decisions on matters that go directly to people, who are involved in judging or acquitting people. When these co-judgments fail to understand the Norwegian language, it goes without saying that it weakens the legal certainty of the individual. We can't have it that way. It is a prerequisite to have good knowledge of Norwegian languages in order to be able to work and work in Norway. It is a prerequisite to be able to communicate — with neighbours, with colleagues, with customers or with users of private and public services. Poor Norwegian knowledge can cause damage — in fact fatal damage — and it can erode legal certainty. It can create dangerous situations and misunderstandings that can affect a third party. It's simply bad HMS work. This is where the individual business has a responsibility. There is no doubt about it, and I agree with that. But we politicians also have a responsibility, because what goes well in the public sector, and what goes less well, is turning back on us. If the majority does not agree with the proposals that the Progress Party is making, we do not do any service to non-residents in the public sector, users or society. We're doing them a bear service – which can have unfortunate consequences – and I'll call it a discharge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2220	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2223	The rapporteur has explained the facts of the case and the matter has been discussed in this Chamber in the past. I agree that it is important that meetings between the users of public services and public servants are not a language barrier to understanding what the parties say. Today, users of public services are more diverse than before, and their linguistic background is therefore also more varied. This means that public employees with a varied language background contribute to equivalent services to the entire spectrum of the population. The proposers refer to the media, where information is available that there is a lack of Norwegian knowledge among health professionals. Let me first stress that there are a lot of health professionals from abroad who help us to have enough health professionals in Norway, and many of them do an indispensable job in the public health system. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has therefore assessed measures to improve the quality of foreign-language health workers. Language training will be a central theme of that work. Language skills in public care are part of the overall assessment when someone employs people. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has developed the ‘Good Practices — Good Additions’ guide. Guidance for health care employers by the addition of health professionals’. It is clarified that the employer should always interview and obtain references to ensure that the person added has sufficient Norwegian skills for the job. As of 1 September 2013, a rule is introduced that immigrants who are entitled and/or obliged to participate in training in Norwegian and community knowledge must carry out mandatory final tests. The candidates thus receive proof of their Norwegian skills. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has set aside 3 million in the State budget for 2013. kr for a commitment to the qualification of foreign-language workers for the health profession — it also includes language training. One prerequisite for any employment is that the employee has good enough Norwegian skills to do his or her work in a good way. Each enterprise is responsible for recruiting staff and ensuring that they have satisfactory Norwegian knowledge. It is important that establishments assess the requirements for Norwegian knowledge based on the needs of the establishment. Language skills are considered as part of the overall assessment of employment, including: interview, reference collection and various tests are of great importance. However, laws and regulations may lay down specific requirements for the competence of these professions. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is now working on an action plan to improve the use of the skills of immigrants in working life. The plan also includes language training. Public sector employees have varying degrees of contact with users, and the requirement for knowledge in Norwegian will differ. Activities are responsible for implementing the necessary measures for the development of competences, i.e.: also the need for language training, where appropriate. The proposers ask the government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that foreign citizens employed in the public sector have satisfactory knowledge of Norwegian language and that foreign employees in public enterprises are adequately trained in language. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church is the central employer authority in the country. We will not propose general requirements for Norwegian skills for all public sector employees and implement general language training measures for non-residents in the public sector. I believe that each enterprise is closest and best placed to assess the needs and candidates involved. Let me end by mentioning something that amazes me a little bit. The members of the Progress Party often underline in different contexts – most recently in the debate we have just debated – that there is too much bureaucracy in government. They talk about how important it is with less impositions, less centralisation and greater scope for action for both private and public enterprises. But I understand that in this case, they have little confidence in the discretion of state enterprises, and that businesses themselves can assess the language skills of their employees. I am of the opinion that rigid requirements and regulations relating to the language skills of employees can lead to the loss of valuable skills that society relies on in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2259	The Council of State was concerned that she could not understand why the Advance Party made such a proposal, since we were opposed to bureaucracy. We are opposed to bureaucracy, but to protect the interests of our citizens and to ensure – and prevent – that there is no communication gap between doctor and patient, between nurse and patient, etc. is the most important thing here. We put the inhabitants in the center. We can't see that this is a bureaucracy. I believe that if you continue with all these examples of communication failures, it shows – everywhere, in kindergarten and in different places – there will be greater challenges than if you introduce such a requirement. That is why we are making two proposals. One is that foreign citizens who are added to the public sector have satisfactory knowledge in Norwegian language. It seemed to me to be a minimum, so that they could communicate in a safe way. And then we also say that the government needs to put in place measures for foreign participants in public enterprises to achieve a satisfactory level of knowledge in Norwegian language. The government cannot sit here and discharge itself from all responsibility. This is a serious situation. We have more than enough examples from the media that there are communication failures, and then the government can't just distance itself from this problem. Then we have to take the initiative here and make sure that citizens can meet with public service people and wait to communicate in Norwegian in a good and safe way without any communication failure that could, in the worst case, lead to a risk to life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2270	This is interesting. We have the exact same word change now as we had in the debate on the municipal proposition. If the theme is the interests of the inhabitants, the Progress Party says that the answer must be state. Gjermund Hagesetter now has a formulation that is identical to the one he has had at least a few three times during the debate in the previous case. It is very clarifying to all the other parties that local democracy for the Progress Party does not go far enough to include an understanding to take the interests of the inhabitants seriously. So the Progress Party is the State Party – the State-regulating, bureaucratic party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2291	The reality of the matter is as follows: there is a proposition. Here, prior to that proposition, some negotiations have taken place, which was launched on 12 April. Finally, on 30 April, the State submitted offers. The main associations accepted the offer on the same day. This was an easy task for the Committee to address. In paragraph 2, we have comments from the Committee, no comments. We agree with the proposal. On paragraph 3, the Committee’s recommendation, we have no other comments either – or rather, it says ‘no comments’. So that's how we get the Storting to make the decision that's referred to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2298	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2327	In the first case, the Stortinget deals with a government proposal that Norway should conclude an agreement with the EU, where we have the opportunity to join the European Asylum Support Office, EASO. The Office is located in Malta. It's a unanimous committee that joins the proposal. The matter has also been the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, which joined our draft vote. Their agreement was also unanimous. The Committee decided not to hold a hearing on the matter. The reason for this is that the Committee was already on 8 June 2010 when we discussed the Announcement. St. 9 for 2009–2010 on Norwegian refugee and asylum policies in a European perspective, agreed that linking to the EASO should be a priority action in the follow-up to the notification. Proposals for agreements are now available. In the case, the individual provisions of the agreement on participation in Norway are set out. It is set out in the 2013 budget. Cooperation within EASO is for the benefit of all. The Support Office shall contribute to closer cooperation between the EU countries in the field of asylum and we associated. The exchange of information and experience will be an important part of cooperation. Countries receiving many asylum seekers should be better able to handle applications, including: by accessing their own asylum support teams, which may be deployed on request for shorter periods. We can also benefit from that. Activities and dissemination of knowledge shall be cooperated in respect of countries of origin. It shall ensure that applications are treated in a safe manner. It will provide us with a valuable overview of the development of asylum arrivals in Europe and strengthen Dublin cooperation. Close cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is also envisaged. The agreement will benefit all the cooperating countries, but most importantly, this cooperation will help raise the standards of asylum across Europe and ensure compliance with international conventions and agreements. It is most important for asylum seekers. Competence in reception, treatment and vulnerable groups is one of the themes highlighted. The Committee therefore recommends that the Storting consent to the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of which it has been negotiated. In the second case, the Left proposes that a common Scandinavian or Nordic country information should be established in the foreign administration. The aim of the proposal is to improve the quality of proceedings in foreign affairs. When an overall committee insists that the proposal is not accepted, it is not because we disagree with that intention, because it is good. It's about exploiting each other's competences across national borders. It is also a matter of ultimately ensuring the legal certainty of those seeking protection in Norway. Updated information on the situation in the country of origin is essential in this way. It is the task of Landinfo to ensure that such information is available. However, where the Committee does not approve the proposal, it is because close cooperation has already been established between Landinfo and the Nordic sister organisations, as the Council of State states in its letter to the Committee. Cooperation covers everything from regular trade meetings, exchange of annual plans, coordination of information travel themes and joint trips. In the previous case, we discussed the consent of Norway to join the formalised cooperation in the European Asylum Support Office. Here, too, before we reach the point of reaching an agreement, we have developed extensive cooperation, and here we are going to participate fully. The exchange of information is an important part of this cooperation in Europe. I mentioned that in the introduction. The same applies to the testing and use of land information. In addition, the Support Office shall carry out analyses which may contribute to more uniform assessment criteria between European countries. One final point is that EASO will also cooperate closely with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The Committee therefore supports the intention of the proposal, but a joint committee shares the view of the Council of State that the establishment of a new formal structure will hardly contribute to any further gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2353	I will not comment on the first matter, where I fully agree with what is in the committee's position. But I want to take up the proposal, our original one. I know that today we were 10 minutes late, we've pulled it off with the 287 other proposals we've been promoting over the past two weeks, but I've realized that the presidency's attitude is that we're going to be able to deal with it with it with a few minutes of delay. The reason we have promoted this proposal is two types of feedback. There are feedback from UDI employees, who work with these types of areas, saying that having an in-depth insight not only into what is happening in all countries, but in what is happening in all regions and all countries, is a rather demanding job, and that it takes a long time because it is a major subject area. For the Left, it is important that asylum applications take a short time. All we can do to ensure that the treatment period gets shorter is good, not only because of the problems that it leads to that people stay in Norway for a long time without a clarification, but also because it is much better for people to get a quick clarification in the future. The second response we have received is from those who work with this group of asylum seekers, who believe that sometimes there is no optimal knowledge of the countries on which the opinion is expressed. We have a good deal of examples of rejection that show that there are some lack of knowledge about the countries that are involved. I understand that it is difficult to keep an overview of such a complex area of business with such major changes. That's why we believe that we could have developed a common base at the Nordic level to get it done, based on input from both those who work on it, and those who work on that kind of application. So we're going to review our proposal again. We think it's good, and we're going to work to get to it in the other positions we can get, to push.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2364	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2380	The Presidency sees it as very important that legislative proposals made by the representatives of wholesalers be reviewed and quality assured by competent professional bodies, both in legal matters, in relation to the relationship with the Basic Law and in relation to other legal rules. A clear majority of the presidency believes that there are good opportunities for such assistance also with today's organisation of the legislative work. All legislative proposals – both those made by the government in a proposal and those made by the representatives – are reviewed and proofread by Stortingen's administration and quality assurance also in the case of legal matters. Representatives also have the opportunity to address the Stortingen administration for legal and legal assistance with the design of legislative proposals prior to their submission. This plan is only used temporarily. Representatives also have the opportunity to ask the Administration of the Grand Duchy to address legal and other professional issues related to legal work. For example, the Investigation Section may: provide background information and evaluate the legal consequences of a legislative proposal. However, the investigation section has limited capacity. This has a resource side and needs to be seen in the context of the fact that legislative activity in the Storting may vary considerably throughout the year and from year to year. I might want to put the greatest emphasis on the last one. To put it another way, and more directly, the activity tends to be associated with an upcoming choice. Therefore, of course, capacity is not always adapted to the activity of Stortinget. In the view of the majority, the need to strengthen administrative investigation capacity must therefore be assessed on a regular basis in the context of the examination of the Storting’s own budget. The majority of the Presidency believes that it is not desirable to build an investigative apparatus in the Administration of Storting as a full alternative to the government at its disposal. Let me say it this way: it will be a pretty substantial manpower task. In Norwegian constitutional practice, the government is making the vast majority of legislative proposals. The government has therefore built up a comprehensive investigation device for, among other things. to be able to fulfil the obligation to provide information to Stortinget under the Constitution § 82. The legal quality assurance of legislative proposals has also been added to the government in our constitutional practice, at least since the creation of a separate law office, as it was then called, in the Ministry of Justice in 1885. This office, later the Law Department, should have a primary responsibility for the legal and technical aspects of the legal work. Although the Department of Law was organised as a unit in a department, formally subject to the governing and constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, it has been argued that the Department provides its legal professional judgements independently of the Department’s political direction. The opinion of the Legal Service as a professionally independent body in legislative matters is also expressed by the request of the Stortinget or a Grand Committee for legal assistance. It is rare that requests for such assistance, to a reasonable extent, are not complied with. In accordance with established practice, the Committees also have the opportunity to ask the Technical Council a written question on a matter for consideration by the Committee, including requests for legal assistance. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy has pointed out on several occasions that it is of great importance for the Grand Duchy's legislative activities to comply with such requests by the Committees and the Party Groups for legal assistance. However, understanding must also be shown that departments cannot meet such requests if a very large amount of work is required, and – I would like to add – if it requires policy assessments beyond what a law department can naturally do. Following the majority's assessment, there are overall good opportunities for legal and regulatory assistance in the preparation of legislative proposals in the party groups or committees, either in the administration of the Stortinge or by submitting a request to the government. The majority of the Presidency therefore sees little reason to strengthen the investigation capacity of the Storting on a permanent basis with a view to legal assistance. The Presidency will propose that the proposal for a representative should therefore not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2397	Let me start by referring to the comments and the proposal in the vote. What is the starting point here from the proposers is to strengthen the Stortinget as legislator. As Foss rightly says, the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice today is largely used, and for matters relating to treatment in the Stortinget, it works pretty well. The times when it has not worked optimally are when large-scale representatives on their own initiative ask for assistance to prepare a legislative proposal. It has been mentioned earlier in this room at Morten Ørsal Johansen, among others. Some legislative proposals and the work to be done are more demanding than others. Then, in my view, it is problematic when you do not receive the necessary assistance. So that's how legal questions can get different answers. The Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice assists a lot, but there is no doubt that the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice has also made some misassessments lately. I've written that in the setting, three concrete things, and the fourth one may be along the way. This is the case we discussed on the Media Ownership Act in Stortinget on Monday, where a completely different conclusion has been reached from Schibsted, who has used lawyers, than the Law Department in the Ministry of Justice. What's going to happen to it is too early to conclude, but it just shows that it's not the Justice Department that sits with the fasit in all cases. I also think it will be difficult to find one environment that has all the answers, but what is the starting point for the proposers is to strengthen the ability of the staging representatives to come up with good and, not least, correct legislative proposals. So it's not the way the majority of the presidency writes in its comments at last, that it's ‘a small reason to strengthen the investigation capacity of the Storting on a permanent basis with a view to legal assistance’. What is written in the proposal is that a sample should be set up in order to assess how best to facilitate the involvement of the big business representatives. What is my starting point, and also the starting point for the proposers, is simply to get the best tools that can be recovered, of course, within reasonable limits, against the big business representatives. We do not feel that is being taken care of today, and it did not feel much of the opposition on Monday when we dealt with the matter of the Media Ownership Act, where it was quite obvious that we were given a bill from the Ministry of Culture, discussed in the Committee on Culture, and had neither the capacity nor the competence to assess it legally around it, and especially when there is time pressure in that way. This is how the Stortinget deals with the government and not necessarily with the Law Department in the department. Finally, I refer to the proposal that I have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2419	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2422	Formal power in Norway is divided into three: between magnificence, government and courts. The assumption for such a third is that there is a certain degree of autonomy in each of these institutions. That means that the courts will take their decisions on the laws that are made, without interference from the politicians in the process. That means that the government is the one who is preparing and presenting matters to the Storting. And that means that the Storting is the sovereign to consider the issues that the government is presenting, and to adopt laws. There are no watertight bulkheads between these three arrows. It's e.g. the government which points out judges of the Supreme Court, which shall judge by the laws adopted by the Grand Duchy. And, above all, the Storing itself can take the initiative to design and adopt laws, regardless of the government, either through representative proposals or through the consideration of government matters. In both cases, the Storting is free to adopt exactly the laws that the Storing believes the country needs, regardless of the government. But this autonomy requires a legislative competence. That legal competence does not have the Storting as an institution today. Today, only the government has such competence, in the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice. Of course, the parties on the Storting may acquire such a legal preparatory competence themselves by buying such legal services privately or even hiring the best lawyers. But such services are usually expensive, and it will allow those parties with best advice to buy the best services, while smaller parties will be cut off from this possibility. This will not be a successful system because the economy of the groups should not play a role in the ability of large-scale representatives or the party groups to carry out their act as lawmakers. In my opinion, this has to do with fundamental principles of democracy. Nor should such a role play the question of whether a party is in government. Position and opposition should have equal opportunities to investigate their legislative proposals. Today, the system operates in such a way that it is the government parties that govern the Ministry of Justice, and thus the priorities of the Department of Law. I remember that a better balance between the rights of the parties in the opposition and the position was also the reason why SV took the initiative in its time to set up the Swedish Investigation Department. It was just created to ensure that opposition parties would not be dependent on the government and the ministries to investigate issues that they would have investigated. It works in our opinion well according to purpose. Therefore, SV supports such an investigation of its own legislative competence in Stortinget, as discussed in the representative’s proposal. The reason why SV has a separate proposal in the case is that we believe that such a legal competence must be to give the local representatives quick and good help in assessing their own proposals for law and getting help to formulate their own alternative legal text for the government's proposal, regardless of the Ministry of Justice's law department, not to check quality or to ensure the quality of the work carried out by the Legal Service, as the Progress Party is calling for. Should this be desirable, I must remind you that the Stortinget already has the opportunity to avail itself of the constitutional court Stortinget actually has legal assistance or to have legal proposals checked up against the Constitution of the Supreme Court. I shall deal with my proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2441	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2457	This is a unanimous vote by the Presidency, based on a unanimous committee opinion on the guidelines for the subsidy of the party groups. The Presidency is of the opinion that the model drawn up by the sample redistributes the grants in an appropriate manner. The smallest and medium-sized groups are eligible for increased grants. The increase in grants to the smallest groups results in a slight reduction in the contribution to the largest groups. In addition, from 1 October 2013, i.e. this year, we propose that groups of parties who are reduced from that date, as a result of the election decision – i.e. the outcome of the elections – receive a transitional arrangement out of the calendar year 2013. I refer not least to the need for the working environment legislation for self-employed workers in the groups, and therefore a certain transition period is needed. In addition, some minor changes are made to the guidelines. I refer to cross-reference: the objective provision highlights that the grant is granted in order for the groups to be able to carry out their activities in order to enable the representatives to carry out their stratagem – that is a slightly clearer and clearer objective – and that the purchase of services from the lot is included for that purpose. We mention, among other things: to be able to purchase HR services from the batch for groups with less than one activity. It is now also open to the purchase of several services, where it is important to ensure that transfers from batch groups to batch organisations are not continued. So it's going to be big business, but it's opening up a certain purchase of services between the groups and the batches. There is agreement on all the changes and, of course, this transitional arrangement, which is underpinned, because I believe that all the parties fear that it may be necessary for them to make use of this transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2472	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2486	I cannot give notice of the same unanimity in this matter, perhaps, but the majority of the Presidency proposes that the Storting should determine the remuneration proposed by the Enlarged Bureau. That's why we appointed the Wage Commission of the Biggest. The proposal is based on an annual wage increase for 2013 for the grossing up representatives and members of the government of 3.5 p.m. It is the same as calculated annual wage growth in both the state and private sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2493	It's a fact that when people earn differently, and when the annual salary increases in percent, the pay increases more for those who have the most from before. Therefore, SV believes that the representatives of the Trustees and the members of the government should receive an increase in compensation in line with the people most – measured in crowns. It concerns, for the grossing-up representatives, approx. $17,500, which is about what most people will get this year in pay raise. Instead, a remuneration is proposed that will be twice that of most people this year. I see that there is no majority in favour of the proposal in the Chamber, but for us, it is important to promote the principle and not least send a signal to the payroll commission that they notice that we believe that wages should be increased as most people actually get, and that you do not use percentages and thus increase wages more than for ordinary people. I'll take up my suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2502	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2518	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 11 and 12 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2546	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2557	In the great story of modern Norway, an ever better public health belongs at home. In the 1900s, the average life expectancy increased by 30 years, and it continues to increase. The Norwegian population is in good health. Both my grandparents had the sibling who died of tuberculosis. Public health has stagnated the infectious diseases over the last 100 years. Toothpuss and fluorine have given better teeth, we have access to prevention and vaccines, and most houses are connected to waterworks that provide clean water. Most people have good health and live long. Sickness and death are increasingly caused by the way we live: food with too much salt, sugar and fat as well as too little physical activity. In 2011, a UN summit concluded that non-infectious diseases constitute one of the greatest threats to human development this century. We're not going to solve these problems at the doctor's office or at the operating table. The Communication describes the challenges and makes proposals for action. The recipient is not primarily healthcare, but the whole community. The principle of ‘health in all we do’ implies that the health of the population must be taken into account in all policies and across society. The Communication draws attention to health and quality of life factors rather than to a disease perspective. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. We don't agree on anything, but there's a lot we're dealing with. The entire Committee shares the government's ambition for broad mobilisation for public health. While Norway is a society of small differences in many other areas, there are systematic health differences between income and education groups. Norwegian higher education men live 6.3 years longer than men without. A fair society, without great differences between people, provides better conditions for good public health work. People's health is a result of how we set up society. The communication highlights the importance of volunteering in public health work. Freedom and public health are two sides of the same coin. It becomes more evident where non-governmental organisations have a direct responsibility for health promotion activities, as we see in sport and speed. Organisations that work to raise awareness and provide an offer to persons with specific disabilities or diagnoses play another important role. The National Public Health Association does both. Indigenous schools and offers to people with dementia are important. The same is true of the organisation’s efforts to influence society’s attitudes and knowledge of dementia. We also have non-governmental organisations that work with prevention as a whole. The organisation MOT has good results in prevention among young people, long before problems occur. It's an important job. In addition, all voluntary work is health promotion, wherever it happens. Cultural activities, tour groups, teams and associations are – no matter what they do – good venues for social association, knowledge and shared experiences. The Communication also invites business operators to cooperate. In a few years, Norwegian imports of palm oil fell sharply: from 26 000 tonnes in 2005 to 5000 tonnes in 2012 — during a period when consumption in the rest of the world has doubled. This is due to good cooperation between industry and the authorities. And while the committee examined the notification, the news came that similar cooperation was established for the marketing of children. That nutritionists in this way take social responsibility is great. There is consensus on a lot in the field of public health, but there are differences in the view of the balance between individual and community responsibilities. The working party is concerned that health is not a moral issue. Everyone is responsible for their own health, but the community is responsible for everyone's health. Per Fugelli has warned as follows: ‘The individualisation of preventive health work has moral side effects. [[...]] [[...]] Those who smoke, eat chips, and sit on the sofa instead of throwing themselves into the ake tray with red eplexin, are weak, stupid and guilty. People don't get any more life against such stamping." [[...]] Life’s face and life’s joy are important. We do not turn moral index fingers, but we are committed to using the tools available – legislation, price and availability – to promote health. We have to start with children and young people. In the hearings, the government’s goal of one hour of daily physical activity in the school was widely endorsed. Physical activity is important for the growth and development of children. Trudvang school in Sogndal has had 60 minutes of daily mobility for all students for two years. Students participating have improved in grades compared to the national average on national tests in grades 8 and 9. More attention needs to be paid to the mental health of children and young people. Studies show that children and young people experience healthcare as unavailable. There are knowledge-based methods of prevention and early intervention for children with symptoms of mental health disorders, such as: Psychological First Aid. It is important that such tools are used, for example: in the school health service. Strengthening school health is really great, and it's hugely important. The youth of the Red Cross has pointed out that the quality of life and sex education varies too much. That young people can develop good and healthy attitudes to themselves, their sexuality and health as well as increased respect for the borders and integrity of others is important for public health. Changing eating habits is more than knowing the different nutrients. The Geitmyra food culture centre for children is making an important effort to spread matted and agricultural understanding. The Centre is financed by public and private funds and is an important player for kindergartens, schools and volunteers in Oslo. The Centre is also a resource for other parts of the country. We are concerned that they will also have a framework that will enable them to play such a role in the future. Demos represents a major challenge both for public health and for care services. Research shows that different measures can slow disease development and improve patient and related quality of life. The Committee is committed to seeing the link between life and goals of preventing and slowing down the development of dementia. In the notes about this, there is an error in the setting. On page 9 of the printed book, in the last paragraph of the first column, the word ‘majority’ has been used twice where it was to be read as ‘the Committee’. The Labour Party is also concerned with the public health challenges that Norway is facing as a result of our becoming a more diverse society. The incidence of diabetes among the immigrant population in Norway, particularly among women from South Asia, is alarming. We are concerned that it is based on the good experience of the Diabetes Association and others in dialogue with the minority communities. Activity and work are health-promoting, while inactivity and exclusion contribute to health. Measures to promote labour relations have a major impact on the individual's health and mastery. The government has introduced Jobjesen as a permanent scheme from the summer of 2013. The system targets immigrants who are far from working life. It is – among other things – also a good public health measure. Environment means a lot to quality of life and health. Driving good urban and urban development is also about promoting public health. As walking and cycling routes are down priorities, less environmentally friendly transport, more noise and poorer air, but it also weakens public health. The Public Health Notice is described by Aftenpostens Thomas Boe Hornburg as a ‘dult dugunad’. It's a striking description. People's choices are largely influenced by circumstances. A secret is a gesture – a kind act. Municipalities, county councils and the state can do more by making it easier for people to make healthy choices. But fighting isn't enough. Obesity, alcohol and tobacco affect not only those who make the choices, but also third parties, especially children. More than 50,000 children in Norway live with parents at risk of alcohol consumption. Every five children are obese. Under the heading «Forsaken State», Committee Chairman Bent Höie wrote last year on his blog in the Medisin of the Day: ‘It is in the debate on instruments that we are now seeing an advance on the ideology of the superior.’ But using price, availability or legislation to protect children from disease is not superfluous. Of course, there are limits, but the right is against the fact that children have the right to a smoke-free environment with reference to a non-violent concept of freedom. Freedom from whom? The cliché that we cannot adopt for better health is just that – a cliché. It's not true that we can't adopt better health. Of course, we cannot decide that individuals should train or eat healthier, but throughout history the Storting has made many, many decisions that have given people better health. There is a striking common feature of all these decisions: representatives who use the term ‘we cannot adopt ourselves for better health’ have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2627	The Progress Party shares many of the intentions of the government in the public health report, but at the same time believes that once again one sees a big message with many good words and get concrete suggestions. The few proposals contained in the communication show that the government's line is to restrict the freedom of people, and it has few measures that give a positive incentive to take greater responsibility for their own health. There is far too little focus on measures that will make it easier to choose a more active and healthy life. The main message is that the government will assess, work for, contribute to, further develop, lay the basis for, build, cooperate on, facilitate, continue or assist with. We had hoped that the Minister of Health had put forward some concrete and binding measures. Good public health is about giving our children safe and good opportunities for growth, mastering at school with a school day without bullying, and freedom of choice for your own adult life. Knowledge builds children and young people to make right choices for their future. That's why prevention is about a lot more than what we put in our mouths, and how much we move. Obesity isn't always a sign of just this, but it can also be about sickness or bad feelings. I therefore wish for a policy that is not about pointing to late people, but that sees the individual, and that creates security and choice. It is also important to bear in mind that diseases such as: cancer, not only is it about a bad lifestyle, but it can actually affect healthy and spread people, and it affects even young children who have never had to live unhealthy. The Progress Party believes that its own health is essentially an individual responsibility, a responsibility that people must want to take. Authorities must be responsible for facilitating people’s choice of a way of life that promotes good health. We want a school that helps children and young people out more of their natural need for physical activity. School days are too much based on physical inactivity. This is why the Progress Party has made proposals to offer all pupils physical activity in school every day. This is a right and important measure because it also provides a basis for increased learning. It is to a large extent the volunteer that is the greatest promoter of improved public health. It operates through a variety of activities all age groups across the country and is the leading Norway in public health work. The Progress Party has therefore proposed VAT exemptions for voluntary teams and organisations. This would have contributed to a significant development of infrastructure, which would have given greater access to facilities and increased physical activity and improved public health. Unfortunately, there is a great need for voluntary funding in order to establish new facilities and to update the necessary equipment. And unfortunately, too many swimming pools are empty. It does not help for government parties to repeat the boring fact that they have increased the appropriations allocated to municipalities. The facts are, the money doesn't stretch. The national audit has revealed a lack of target achievement for swimming facilities, and there were far fewer basins open and available than the official statistics show. The National Audit Office found it particularly unfortunate that municipalities are unable to provide children with swimming training as provided for in the curriculum and pointed out the importance of access to swimming facilities for the population. Numbers from the Mutual Foundation show that half of the country's teenagers cannot swim. At least 150,000 children meet in the summer without being able to swim. Therefore, lack of swimming skills causes children to drown every year. Improved swimming training can lead to fewer drowning accidents, increased physical activity and better health in the general population. The promotion party wants to facilitate the stimulation of more employers to help their own workers become more physically active. This is particularly important as Norwegian work is significantly less physically active now than just a few decades ago. We will therefore introduce tax exemptions for employer-paid training. With regard to the elderly, we want to strengthen everyday rehabilitation for those who are in the process of failing health and thus become more inactive. In this context, we have repeatedly proposed the introduction of the Fredericia model from Denmark, which has achieved significant results with its project. The Progress Party supports the important work carried out through health centres and learning and mastering centres throughout the country. Many of these address specifically the group of people who need follow-up and motivation in order to improve their health situation. In addition, it is very important that we manage to provide an activity offer to older people who are in different forms of older institutions. This will help to strengthen, not only the physical but also the mental health, as well as increase well-being. Physical activity is important for everyone. Therefore, the Progress Party has been so concerned that persons in need of organised training equipment will no longer receive part-financing from the public after the age of 26. This legislation needs to be amended, and we note that the government parties communicate this externally, despite their voting against changes when they have the opportunity in this Chamber. The Progress Party believes it is a paradox that the vast majority of the parties on the Stortinget have an explicit objective of improving the dental supply to the population, while seeing little improvement in practice. After eight years of majority management, the offer in the dental field is almost unchanged. No follow-up has been made on better protection systems and self-interest in dental services. Good dental health is a fundamental foundation for achieving good public health. We are particularly concerned about the dental health of people with high dental costs and low payability – people who cannot afford to maintain good dental health and who are therefore at risk of developing a number of complications. This in turn contributes to the creation of a health class distinction in the population, which is unnecessary. The Progress Group believes that some of the challenges we face today are likely to be solved through better diagnostic tools, more effective treatment and also new medicines. It is therefore important from a public health perspective to strengthen research and development related to the major lifestyle diseases. The Progress Party has therefore proposed strengthening research on several of these diseases, such as diabetes, COPD, cancer and dementia. New technologies and new treatment methods should also be looked at in a preventive perspective. The Progress Party believes that Norwegian fees do not promote public health to a large extent. For example, the sugar levy is not actually a sugar charge. In fact, sugar-free shower has exactly the same charge as sugary shower, which means that there is no economic incentive to choose the sugar-free option. Nevertheless, statistics show that more and more people are choosing the sugar-free option. Marengs, which consists of over 90 pst. sugar is exempt from the sugar charge. Marsipan in the store has a sugar charge, but not if it is on top of a cake. In the case of the hook, we see something similar. If you buy it as the whole hook, in form, it is exempt from the sugar charge, but if you buy the straw hook, you will have to pay a fee. A charge that is then to those degrees randomly does not promote good health. In the case of alcohol, it has been decided to increase taxes on non-alcoholic beverages more than on alcoholic beverages — an action that is not linked to the government’s focus on the fact that high charges are essential to keeping consumption down. Once we're into alcohol, it's worth noting that over the last few years, the increase in alcohol consumption has been 17 p.m. At the same time, government parties believe that their alcohol policy is the only one that works. Knowledge of the content of food and drink is an important tool for individuals to make good choices. Today's marking is neither good enough, universally designed nor user-friendly. In this area, we have a significant potential for improvement, and that is to hope that the industry itself is increasingly benefiting from further development and improvement in this area. The Progress Party does not support the introduction of a regulation on the marketing of children, but is pleased, and is confident that the industry will discharge its responsibilities by means of the binding agreement and the partnership to be implemented. The Progress Party cannot be sufficiently stressed that there is now a need for a significant commitment to mental health. There are good examples of projects being carried out to bring more people back to work. We would like, among other things: mention the cooperation between municipalities and county councils with the hospitals in several places in the country. We have noticed that their working method is based on a health-promoting approach to empowering people to master working life. The Progress Party wants a new escalation plan for mental health, partly because we did not achieve all the objectives of the previous escalation plan, and partly because much of what we actually built is now being built down. Psychiatric plagues and sufferings account for so much pain and externality that here we can't rest. The Progress Party sees that more parties are very concerned with social differences and health, and that they want to know about these differences. For us, this isn't so weird. It is those with the worst health who live on disability benefits or social assistance, and these benefits are several times lower than an income from work. At the same time, sick people spend a lot of money on prostheses, drugs, organized services and equipment. It is natural, therefore, that this brings the worst advice for those with poor health. The Progress Party has therefore programmed, and repeatedly promoted, proposals that would have strengthened them financially, in terms of pension regulation, and also in order to keep the prob lems down. At the same time, the Progress Party is concerned not to put people in the booth, as it is in this case, as in other cases. Not everyone with low income has poor health and dies early. Nor is it the case that everyone with good advice, good health and longevity. A percentage can tell us something, but broken down against individuals the image looks different. I believe it is important both to be aware of it and to communicate it. Prevention is important, but it's still a little more fun to talk about life satisfaction. I would therefore like to finish my post with a few words on the proposals of the Advance Party on Special Olympics Norway. From a public health point of view, this is an incredibly important matter, which is very much at my heart. It's about sports pleasures at the right level – mastering, belonging and physical activity. Sounds like music in a health politician's ear. But beautiful words and verbal support are not enough for this organization to live on, evolve and reach even more. Special Olympics Norway has launched several activities for those with developmental disabilities who do not wish to engage in organised sport. The offers are about both physical activity and diet class. One of the offers is truddling. This is an activity that suits people with poor motor skills. It is arranged in Holmenkollen and at Bislett. They are nationwide and last a whole weekend. It gathers against 250 participants. In addition, there are many local and regional events. The Progress Party had both charms and persuasion in meetings with this organisation and their members as well as at their events. We have a strong and heartfelt desire to contribute to their economic situation in the near future – and in the years beyond. Seeing pure joy, cohesion and equivalency among the developing world warmed me so much that I got tears in my eyes, told our leader, Siv Jensen, to our big group after attending an event in winter. In retrospect, we have been made aware of the financial challenges facing the organisation – therefore this representative proposal. In his reply of 16 May, the Minister of Health described the same thing as the proposal does. The Minister of Health uses three whole pages on a description of reality and an estimate of all possible other measures that can be taken to push the case – as a form of excuse for not supporting the proposal in a concrete way. This regrets the Progress Party, but takes note of it. However, I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2705	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2708	Today, when the Storting deals with a new public health report, it is a good tradition that every ten years a global report on this issue is being addressed. The size treated St.meld. No 37 for 1992-1993, Health promotion and prevention challenges, 1993. In 2003 Stortinget St.meld. No 16 for 2002–2003, prescription for a healthier Norway. It contained strategies for the ten-year period we have now left behind. Today, we are addressing a growing communication on strategies for the next period, under the heading ‘Good health — shared responsibility’. If we look at the content and objectives of these two messages – one presented by a centre – the Right-Registration and the present, presented by a red-green government – we find that there are not the differences that appear to be the most obvious, but the similarities. The description of the situation in the main message Recipe for a healthier Norway was that trends in society pose new health challenges. Examples were increased globalisation, a multicultural society, a demanding working life and drug problems. One pointed out that the World Health Organisation pointed out that one third of the overall burden of disease in industrialized countries is due to the five risk factors of tobacco, alcohol, high blood pressure, cholesterol and obesity. The objectives of the Annual Report Recipe for a healthier Norway were to have a policy that could contribute to: several years of life with good health in the population as a whole to reduce health inequalities between social, ethnic and gender groups. So have we succeeded in that ten-year period? Both yes and no. We have succeeded in getting more years of life in the population as a whole. However, a key finding from the 2010 global disease burden study shows that increasing life expectancy is associated with several years of reduced health and disease burden from non-lethal conditions. While life expectancy has increased for all, groups of long-term education and high incomes have had the best development. The results of a recent Norwegian register study with data up to 2009 suggest that social health differences have increased over time. Other signs are more positive. In the case of obesity and obesity in children and young people, we see from the latest figures that the proportion is falling for both girls and boys. Many suggest that the onset age of alcohol is increasing, and that the proportion of illicit drug users is falling among the youngest. But the big picture is that life expectancy is rising as a result of our success in creating a welfare society. Better living conditions, safer jobs, regulated working time, the economy to buy rich food and education for everyone is the main explanation. The fact that we are getting older in Norway is therefore the main expression that we have succeeded in many areas. At the same time, we see that lifestyle diseases form a major part of the disease picture and contribute to the decline in the quality of the ‘bad’ life years that we have won. This means that a significant proportion of patients treated in our hospitals in the coming years will be related to lifestyle diseases. Some suggest that as much as 80 pst. the treatment will be linked to this. These are diseases that we could have largely prevented by better success in other areas of society. To put it simply, in the years to come, our hospital expenses will increasingly be the price that we society will have to pay for failing in other areas of society. The main solution for public health is therefore in policy areas other than direct health policy. We see that the main difference in health is related to education and labour relations. The school is therefore very central — not primarily to compensate for the failure of parents or society to follow up their children, but to do what is precisely the school’s primary task: education. What will mean most for public health is that we can create a school with opportunities for everyone. What does international research tell us about what's most important to achieve that goal? Is it school food, is there more physical activity in school, is it more elective? No – the answer is quite simple: it's the teacher. Five years with a competent teacher are enough to balance the differences between the pupils due to the level of education and income of their parents. Therefore, the Right's clear priority is that a teacher's vow is the next big initiative, where the State has to take responsibility for the school. This is one of the most important things we can do for public health. It implies the right and obligation of continuing education for teachers who are in school today. It involves the introduction of a five-year master's education for teachers who will start school in the future, and it involves not least the possibility of careers in classrooms, but not outside the classroom. That's where we live and in what the social physician Per Birdeli calls "our team," the good life is lived and created. If one is to have room to develop the good communities, families and networks, these need to be strengthened. In English there is the word «empowerment», but I have not been able to find an equally comprehensive Norwegian word for this. Strengthening local democracy, strengthening the family and strengthening and drying to delegate power locally are therefore an essential part of public health work. In the right we say that the spread of power makes society more robust. In this context, volunteering has a dual function. Studies show that a key explanation of the great trust we have in each other and in our social institutions in the Nordic countries is that a large proportion of the population is engaged in voluntary organisations. The security that this trust provides is essential for our public health – not least mental public health. At the same time, the voluntary organisations that generally always create meeting places and activities that promote our physical and mental public health – from the extensive and professional work of sport on physical activity, dignity and inclusion, to the annual BBQ meetings of small associations. That is why we must give the voluntary economic conditions and not least maintain its freedom and arms. The simple is often the best. I would therefore like to strike a blow for the outdoors, the good Norwegian tradition of going for a walk in the nearby environment. In this context, the inter-municipal outdoor councils and the voluntary organisations of the outdoor community are doing a fantastic job, both with the physical organisation of open-air areas, which makes it easy to access and experience, and with the organisation of joint trips and experiences. It's fun to go for a walk, but it's often best to do it with others. Many without family and friends nearby have the opportunity to meet others through these organized activities, without costing anything, and in their community. Physical and mental health literally goes hand in hand here – on the move. As one of the health centers, it says in its motto, ‘Why sit in, when all hope is out?’ Against this background, the Right will support the Left's proposal No. Eight, nine, eleven. Our health cannot only be made the responsibility of the community. We also need to take personal responsibility. I think that the bigotry message, as it has been presented, balances these relationships. We must not get into the situation of undermining individual responsibility for our own health, while acknowledging that we can do a lot at the overall level. That is why perhaps some of the most important state contribution to public health is the regulation we have in the areas of alcohol and tobacco. Only in the area of alcohol are four key instruments that need to be relegated to the future. It is to have a level of alcohol that keeps consumption down. It's keeping the wine monopoly. It is to have regulation of sales times and outlets and gift times and venues, and it is to keep the advertising ban. In the area of tobacco, a high level of charges will be a significant instrument. Therefore, in its alternative state budgets, the Right also proposes a higher level of tobacco charges than has been proposed by the Red-Green Government. These are effective instruments at a national level that it is important to reinforce further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2755	Why is it that in Norway, where the standard of living is so good and the health status of the population is among the best in the world, we still need to put public health and increased efforts for prevention so high on the agenda? Is that really necessary? The answer to why it is necessary lies in two aspects of our society. One is that our lifestyle related to less activity, diet, alcohol and tobacco is leading to increased health risks and more lifestyle diseases. But the second – perhaps the most important – is related to the major health differences in society that follow the differences we otherwise know: class divisions in social status, position and economy. Public health policy is crucial for those of us who believe that good society is there with little differences and who want to reduce differences further. Those with the highest education and the best living conditions have better health and live longer than those sitting at the bottom of the table. We know more about this today than we did 10-20 years ago. We know that we can't deal with it, we know that even if we spend more and more money on treatment, repair is just part of the answer in health policy. We need to spend more resources on prevention. That is why we in SV are pleased that the government and the Stortingen have adopted it in the context of the treatment of the Interaction Reform and the Public Health Act; that public health and prevention should be given a significantly higher priority in the coming years. The message we are discussing today follows up the leadership and expectations that were laid down when the Stortinget dealt with the Public Health Act. The Communication underlines that the State should take a significant overall responsibility for public health policy, it should not be the municipalities and the counties alone. The Communication also underlines that all government sectors and departments are given a responsibility for public health, just as industry and employment do. Public health shall be a general social policy, not just sectoral responsibility for the health sector and for health authorities. Research and knowledge shall be pursued. The State shall facilitate local authorities with increased knowledge of the state of health of the population locally and the best-performing measures. And the specialist health service should be given a significant responsibility for prevention. There are many municipalities, organisations, associations and voluntary teams doing a lot in this area — facilitating physical activity, organisations contributing to mental health and prevention, and not least making a fantastic effort in the field of outdoor life around the country. In all these environments, there are high expectations and not least great enthusiasm for public health work that contributes to local mobilization, well-being, the construction of good communities and strong communities. It is good that this should and must be followed up better and with more resources in the years to come. Wide-ranging efforts must be made to follow up the intention of overall public health work and targeting vulnerable groups. We have some important goals and some important choices in the years to come. It's about being able to prioritize prevention, not just repair. It's about being able to prioritize a policy that gives less, and no bigger, differences, and it's about really focusing on prevention in those arenas where it's most important. There I notice that there is not just consensus in this room. It's e.g. significant disagreement on how to develop tomorrow's school day, which is probably one of the most important public health venues. In SV we believe in a new school day where we bet on the teachers, but also on building a new school day around the teachers – with food and physical activity. I notice that the Right makes two of the most important public health measures into issues that they will actively oppose, both in this debate and in the election campaign. We believe that diet and moving are prerequisites both for good health and for knowledge in tomorrow's school day. It is a very good big message we are handling today. It will provide a long-term basis for public health policy. Now the job is for us to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2783	Nordics have a consistently good health, but there are clouds in the horizon, and we have clear social health differences in the population. The age of life in Norway is high, but we're no longer on the top of the world, as we were a generation ago. Life - style diseases are referred to as the new public disease. Our good life was a problem. We are forced to take action to prevent that development. If we are to be closed down with a good health policy and prevent the waste of health resources, we must prevent it. Everyone is responsible for their own health. If we are to guarantee everyone the right to good health, we also need to use tools at population level to make the healthy choices easier – instead of correcting the repair measures against the individual. The government has taken this seriously. The public health message that we are debating today is a follow-up to folkehelselova, which began to work in 2012. The recognition that most of the things that affect people's health are happening outside the health system is at stake. Social-medical founder Rudolf Virchow said that 150 years ago: "Politics is nothing but medicine in general." By that he meant that politics is to divide living conditions and values, and thus health conditions, between groups in society. When political governance at local, national and global level allocates living conditions such as income, work, education, housing, food and the environment, they at the same time allocate the framework conditions for health. This government's policy in fields other than health means a lot to the public. It is this perspective and recognition that underlie the public health message we are discussing today. We will give priority to community and Community solutions. Free fruit and greenery in the school will bring a great health benefit. If only 3 pst. by students increasing their permanent consumption of fruit and vegetables by 25 grams, the measure will be economically viable. More physical activity in the school days will also mean a lot to the people. The Public Health Institute assumes that increased physical activity along with better diet will be able to halve the risk of type 2 diabetes. When asthma is the cause of 20 pst. Of the children admitted to hospitals, it is important to address the challenges related to infrastructure, air pollution and indoor climate in kindergarten and school. The fact that the national transport plan has a lift for walking and cycling roads and traffic safety for school grounds is a good public health policy. Reducing economic differences in the population — responses to child poverty — is to provide fundamental financial security to all. It contributes to better health. We must think of public health in all policy areas. Prevention and public health are the backbone of health policy. The interaction reform, which is a policy reform for the health system, has this as its starting point. Prevention takes place where people live and live their lives. For this reason, municipal policy is important, so the municipal health service is very central. The centre party is very pleased with the escalation of health stations and the school health service that has been notified in the message. These are low-threshold measures that reach all children and young people, and can have early efforts and drive good prevention. Besides diet and physical activity, drugs and radiation are also a public health challenge. In 2008, according to the National Health Institute, there were 4,000 entries in somatic hospitals caused by alcohol-related disorders. Half of the patients in the country’s acute psychiatric wards have been problem drug use. Between 50 000 and 150000 children lir because of their adult drug abuse. Therefore, restrictive alcohol policies are good public health policies to ensure freedom for all, not just for a few. Norway is at the tip of the world when it comes to spot cancer. There is a direct connection between the use of solarium and cancer. The World Health Organisation places solarium in the same category as smoking and asbestos. Several countries have introduced age limits and irrigation requirements. 73 pst. by the population, according to the Cancer Unit's investigation, 18-year limit in Norway. When last year the government introduced the 18-year limit, the Right and the Progress Party rallied over the proposal. But they're indifferent to the people when they think that one shouldn't be a prevention among children and young people. The opposition, which agrees on a great deal in the area of health, also seems to agree not to have an active public health policy. Several good measures are at risk: free fruit and vegetables, physical activity in the school, tobacco damage law, alcohol law, 18-year limit on solarium, drug tax policy, dietary policy, advertising ban on alcohol, tipping times, wine monopoly schemes, alcohol television advertising – and one will also have television advertising for painkillers, to name a few. The opposition is on the table for the election year. It helps little when one disagrees about the most fundamental of health policy, namely public health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2812	Health is related to the way we organize our society. In the big picture, we have a good health, but that's the challenges we're set to tackle from this room. The main challenge is that the diseases we now get are because of the way we live: a little too much salt, a little too much sugar, unhealthy fat -- yes, we're a little too little physically active. And we know that physical activity can also be related to our mental health. As the good center party is the Christian People's Party, I say that yes, I have a responsibility for my health, and society has a responsibility. Or, in another way, health is both an individual and a public responsibility. I have a vision that the good public health solutions should be so close that I stumble over them. It's the ones I'll choose when I'm a little bit hungry and go into the kiosk. It's the ones I'll choose when I ask a little bit about what to do this weekend. If we look ten years back, we found four packs of apples at the gas stations. Now there are singles for $5. There's been a change. That's great. And it's very good that many people say, "We want to." We want to make the healthy choices. But then we also have to fix it. They must be so fluttering close. A tourist in the vicinity of the universally designed area must be sloppy near; a tourist that everyone knows about and that everyone can use. There is an overall committee that says that good growth conditions for children and young people are among the most important tasks in society. It's important in itself, but at the same time it lays the foundation for a health for the rest of your life. 21 organizations, representing two million people, have understood that. They've said they want an hour of physical activity in school now. We know that physical activity increases concentration, gives more physical and mental surplus, improves memory and increases self-confidence. This is a medicine that I know I'm getting a little bit touched by. Think if we could do something, so that our kids get a little more confidence when they leave school? Something that makes them say a little more often: Yes, I know something! Physical activity could be what made them a little bit straighter in the back. Physical activity could be what gave them increased self-confidence. I think this is something we have to do. Because it's the good patterns we have to facilitate. When Health Director Bjørn Guldvog presented the key figures for healthcare, he said that: ‘The health of the future is created by focusing on those who are young today’. It's a good sentence, an important sentence to bring with it. It is about physical activity, it is about nutrition, and it is about mental health – it has to be our areas of action. The sun shines today. It is good to take a bath. We can't do it right now. It's an individual responsibility, for the family and for the community, that we learn to swim. There are big differences. In my home municipality, Fredrikstad, it's a school that in the last four years has given 152 lessons in swimming, while another school only teaches swimming lessons to those who can't swim. This isn't a violation of any of the syllabus, because it doesn't say much about how many hours you're going to have. But the Christian People's Party believes that being able to swim is important, and we will introduce a national test in swimming for the fourth class. Consumer power is important, and this is what we see in the decline in the use of palm oil. We also know that in the food industry there is a large research and development environment that takes the important steps, from R & D and into production. It is important, and therefore we have confidence in the binding agreement that has now been concluded between the industry and the government with a view to marketing unhealthy food and drink to children and young people. The Communication states that public health policy should be knowledge-based. It's important. That's what the Bondevik II government said. Then we also know that the knowledge we have about using the local environment is important to take it further. We know that volunteer organizations do a lot of good public health work. Then we have to bet on volunteering. Good public health work is about the seventh and last thing about mastering everyday life, whether we are children, young or old.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2833	Health is an important area of policy because it is part of so many policy areas that many have been involved in. Although the Left does not sit on the Health and Care Committee during this period, we have, of course, been – and are – concerned with this issue and made a number of proposals during the four-year period. We have promoted both proposals from representatives and proposals in our alternative budgets. Of course, everything has been voted down by the government parties. Some of the Left's proposals are being promoted in the Chamber here today, so the opportunity is still there. Until about the 1950s, infectious diseases were our main health challenge. The solution to the infectious diseases was not just the revolutionary treatment of antibiotics. There was also knowledge of hygiene, put in a system through public information. Thus, the number of new outbreaks could be prevented, while offering a range of medicines to those affected by infections. Today, it is the non-infectious diseases that fill doctors' offices and hospitals. Today, almost half of the disease-free statistics consist of musculoskeletal disorders, i.e. chronic plagues and suffering, and nearly 20 pst. of the absence is due to mild mental illness. As an old gym teacher, I know that physical activity is good for both body and soul. I am therefore pleased that our Minister for Health is so clear in this area. Public information and good role models are important. Dietary staff is well described in the communication we are now discussing, and that is why the Left today is promoting a concrete proposal to remove VAT on fruit and vegetables, so that it is cheaper to live healthy. It is possible to use fiscal policies to promote public health. This has shown us the introduction of the sugar charge. The left also believes that outdoor life must be given higher priority in order to achieve the objectives we want in public health policy. Therefore, the contribution to outdoor measures needs to be strengthened. The same must be true of non-governmental organisations organising health promotion activities. Many of us know how much health there is to go for a walk in nature. Psychiatric health, as described in the Communication, is increasingly the cause of absenteeism and sick messages. The Public Health Institute estimates that the total socio-economic cost of mental illness in Norway amounts to between 60 billion. kr and 70 brd. kr annually. The amount includes lost earnings, sickness benefits, social security costs, social benefits and treatment costs. According to the World Health Organisation, mental disorders, measured in disease burden, are the most expensive of all disease groups in Norway. It tells me that we need to bet on strengthening people's mental health, preferably as early as possible in life. A national escalation plan for health centres is therefore absolutely necessary. The same will apply to school health services, and therefore the Left will make health sisters far more accessible to school students than they are today. Therefore, in our proposal for a low-threshold offer in the municipalities, the Left has now promoted eleven proposals, all of which are important preventive measures in line with the intention of the Interaction Reform to prevent more than repair. The representative proposal was well received in the committee, but of course voted down. The left today promotes proposals to strengthen the education of health sisters and proposals to strengthen school health services. The left also has a proposal to improve access to psychologists in the municipalities by introducing a probationary system of permanent psychologists in the municipalities and by improving the system of grants so that more psychologists are employed in the municipalities. Prevention is always the best, and the faster you can get good help, the better. It is important to facilitate the strengthening of the individual and its ability to take responsibility for itself, while at the same time providing and assisting society’s less resource-intensive groups as needed. This will lead to great savings for society and improve the quality of life for individuals. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2854	The representative has taken up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2857	One of my most important ambitions as Minister of Health and Welfare is to put public health policy high on the agenda. There's a lot of reasons for that. I think the head of the committee gave one good reason, that everything we use in hospitals, in many ways, can be seen as the price of what we fail with elsewhere in society. So public health is the key and the entrance to approach this big question. That is why this communication, which has now received good consideration in the Committee, is being debated in the Chamber. I want to join those who say that mostly the Nordics have good health. Lifetime increases, and there has been a significant decrease in the early death of cardiovascular disease in recent decades. People consider their own health to be good. Welfare development and living conditions are among the main factors influencing good health. The development of the Norwegian welfare state and universal welfare systems are therefore good health policies – modern policies for the 21st century – with a shared free school for all children and young people, better housing, better water and sanitation conditions, vaccination programmes, a good public health service and a working life that respects the rights, health, environment and safety of workers, and with a desire for redistribution and fair distribution. Positive developments show that we have solved many health problems. Now we have to get ready to meet new challenges. We live longer, and it's a pure bonus for the welfare state, but at the same time, increasing life expectancy also means several sick elderly people who need help, and that more are affected by cancer, stroke and other chronic diseases. The disease picture changes with changed lifestyle patterns, what we eat and drink and what we live a quiet life. And mental disorders are a major part of the burden of illness, which we have debated many times in this committee and in this room. Medical technology development allows us to treat more and more people than before, and people's expectations of health care are increasing. At the same time, we see social differences in health; we see them right there. Although all groups in Norway have improved their health, social differences are not gone. People's health is closely related to living conditions and social conditions. Lifetime has increased most in groups of long-term education and high incomes. The government made these differences apparent in the biggest communication on the cohesion of social health differences, which was presented in 2007. Since then, the Health Directorate has produced annual reports to follow developments in their efforts to reduce these differences. The 2012 report, published in these days, shows that Norway is the country in Europe with the least differences in income and that this is related to the fiscal policy and significant redistribution that takes place through welfare schemes. These are not simple measures; they are not the way to improve public health by pressing some decision-making buttons. This is a complex policy. The challenges must be met with a public health policy that draws lessons from the past and adapts to the challenges we are now facing. It shall be a policy based on the Norwegian welfare model, which evolves by taking advantage of experience and new knowledge. Therefore, continued work for all, kindergarten for all, a good school and accessible health care will be important. But we also need to focus more on participation and inclusion. For me, it is a further development of democracy. We have a special responsibility for children and young people, and therefore the main effort must be directed in here. Public health is primarily affected by conditions outside the health sector. That is why this debate should really take place in all the other committees in the United Kingdom and in a room which also involved representatives far outside the area of health. However, a strong public health service is an important prerequisite for good health and for balancing social health differences. The challenges are a common task for society as a whole, and they must be met across sectors, levels and disciplines. The public health report is based on this recognition, and here it is that contributions from other government governments have been as important as those who have come directly from the Ministry of Health. Consideration of the health of the population should and should be included in all sectors. That's the most important thing we can do to strengthen public health work in the future. I am pleased that an overall committee is in line with the ambitious objectives we have for this policy. We have a unique opportunity to address today's health challenges, with a society of social protection, trust – and orderly economy. But there are features of development that affect people's health negatively, and it has been affected in this debate: Physical activity as a natural part of work and daily tasks, is reduced or almost gone. Children are driven to school and activities instead of going or cycling. Adults drive a car to the store and take the escalator up and down, we spend more and more time in front of the TV and computer screen, and we swim worse. Food is available 24 hours a day in meeting places, events, gas stations and kiosks. Often, unhealthy foods are most readily available. The government's goal is to make it easier to choose healthy. We want to ensure better labelling of food, we need to strengthen the nutritional requirements of food, and we need to work to establish an smiley-shoe system at the food establishments. We will invite the industry to cooperate in the labelling of energy and nutrition for food and drink. We will better facilitate physical activity in everyday life, and consider how the school day can be organised to ensure that the students are at least one hour of physical activity every day. Health authorities will work closely with road authorities to get more people to go or ride bicycles. In a short time, we will establish a national centre for food, health and physical activity, such as: shall disseminate research-based knowledge to kindergartens and schools. During 2014, we launch a physical activity campaign — a little inspired by the smoking campaigns, but now with another sign — where the population gets information about what physical activity actually does for the body and the soul. Then we have referred to the health and school health service, which comes out when the revised national budget is adopted in this Chamber. We will also further stimulate the development of health services and learning and mastering services in municipalities, as shown in the revised national budget. Health and care services have a special responsibility to support prevention work in other sectors by being a professional and political driver. The Committee's position shows that there is a cross-political consensus that health needs to be taken into account in all policies. This promises good for public health work in the future. But we have to move on. There are no appropriations, decisions, rules and laws alone that will regulate this. There is a fine balance between individual responsibility and social responsibility, and not least organisation – in non-governmental organisations, trade, business, employers, civil society as a whole and in the wider community. A new approach is needed that motivates and inspires each one. We want to cooperate more – and invite it – with the business community. There is a growing understanding that public health is an important part of corporate social responsibility. Those who work in business and working life are also parents, and they know what it's all about. Simple measures such as placing fruit and green well visible in the store, and reducing the size of shower bottles and portions, are measures such as monks. And the Norwegian food and drink industry, which has reduced its sugar content, can go further and bring down its salt content and its additional sugar content. In meeting with the food and drink industry, we have the same perception of the challenges of obesity and obesity, and the fact that that industry is now saying that this is a problem is a step in the right direction. We will limit the marketing of unhealthy food and drink to children as one of several measures to promote good dietary habits, and I have, as you know, agreed with the food and drink industry to establish a reinforced, industry-driven regulatory system. In the setting it works, for example: from the Right, as this almost came about by itself, but I think that the plan to implement a regulation if it didn't become such an agreement helped us to get that understanding – at least if we're going to believe the industry ourselves. Therefore, there is a regulation in the department's drawer that can be used, if the evaluation in 2015 shows that this has not led to the desired results, but I think it will. I think we're on a good track. I meet the same positive upswing in the key sector – the voluntary sector, civil society, where social capital is shaped and managed. The volunteers represent a significant resource in public health work. They make an invaluable effort, especially as regards leisure activities for children and young people. We want volunteers to become even more important partners in public health work, as in the care work, which is the main message both in the care message and in this communication. That is why, in cooperation with Red Cross, I have invited you to a seminar with non-governmental organisations on 27 June next week. There, I would like to get an idea of how non-governmental organisations can contribute to the follow-up to tomorrow's public health and care messages. I also want to set up a national contact forum to strengthen dialogue and cooperation on the public health challenges between non-governmental organisations and the authorities. Finally, it is a proposal for a representative to strengthen the provision of activity and public health for people with developmental disabilities, and the instrument will then be to secure funds for the work of Special Olympics Norway for people with disabilities. I fully agree that people with mental retardation should be guaranteed a good activity offer with movement, play and physical activity. We're all moving by seeing the utility of this activity. Through the games of the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee, NIF, the government facilitates the participation of disabled persons in sporting activities. People with developmental disabilities often depend on the public in terms of small and large choices in life. At the same time, they have the same right to independent life, and they have the same choices as others. This also applies to the possibility of participating in sports or in other activities of daily and leisure time — and in the core activity, which is open-air. The government is working on a major communication on living conditions and measures for people with developmental disabilities. Leisure and sports are one of the themes listed here. Finally, we will develop this work in line with the Cooperation Reform. If we are to get as much health as possible back for the resources, we must give priority to prevention. The government’s proposal to submit a public health policy notice to the Storting every four years will provide the basis for a comprehensive discussion. Then it won't be every ten years that the representative Höie was in – I think we all agree on that. Public health work is community construction. Infectious and hygiene work was a prerequisite for the development of the welfare state and modern Norway. We still need to be prepared for infection, but continuing priority of public health policy will also be equally important for prosperity and community in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2904	It is my claim that a perfect example of preventive public health work is that a fetus is given good care before it is born. In other words, it is about ensuring good maternity care, including midwife service in the municipalities and accompanying services to the maternity wards, but of course also caring for the woman, that she has a responsibility of her own. Four years ago, we dealt with the birth announcement here in Stortinget. It came after the union council for maternity care and the state health department came across with a lot of criticism of that service. It has now been four years since the Stortinge dealt with that notification, and among other things. In order to strengthen preventive health work, professional guidance on maternity care should be developed. These guidelines are still not available, and my question is: When can we expect the government to follow the decision of the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2911	Now I didn't notice exactly that observation in the comments from the Right to the Public Health Communication, but I heard the question from the representative. In order to give her an accurate answer, I will consult the department and ensure that the representative receives a good and informative response in the form of a letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2916	Violence against women is not just crime, it is also a major health problem. The Council of State said in its speech that he wanted to put public health high on the agenda. In today's Our Country there is a chronicle from the red button campaign Stop violence against women, which gives the council two challenges that I don't really think the setting refers to. That's why I'm pulling it up now. It is about the prevention of violence, and that this campaign presents the Council of State with two challenges. First, they challenge him to put in place a national strategy to prevent violence against women and violence in close relations, and that the Council of State also takes responsibility for setting up an awareness-raising campaign. My question is whether the Council of States can take this into account in the further work on putting public health high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2927	There was a good article in our country, and that's a good question. The Ministry has begun work on the answer. I think it's important to have that dialogue, and I take this very seriously. We have addressed this with violence as a health problem also in the news of violence in close relations, about which I worked very closely with the Minister of Justice. The answer is yes, we are working to strengthen the capacity of specialist health services and health services to deal with the health problem of violence, and we have also mentioned violence as a health problem in the public health report. It's an expression of a consciousness of that. It is also true that over the last 10 to 15 years, the World Health Organisation has seen the importance of putting violence on the agenda as a health problem. Unfortunately, it hits both sexes and all ages, but especially women. That is why it deserves to be problematised in such a context as well, so I am pleased that the representative underlines it on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2934	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2937	There is a South African term that is pronounced ‘o-buttu’. Ubuntu is a kind of common term for a lifestyle that conveys the idea that we become human through the meeting with others. “I’m me because you’re you because we’re something together – in a community,” they say in South Africa. Ubuntu is threatened on a tape that is universal and connects it to genuine human beings. It's a great word with an important reminder to all of us. Ubuntu is closely related to aspects of the overall health concept outlined in the message we are debating today, because the concept is just about the meaning of community. Perhaps the word can form part of the understanding frame we're going to have for the broad public health work the government has initiated, and that also affects something of the most personal and human in our lives: what we are with others. The public health message is new, and it's groundbreaking. With this message, the government tells about how to implement a policy that can contribute to better physical and mental health for people throughout their lives, and we address the important challenges associated with the different phases of life. I would particularly like to point out that we need to focus clearly on our mental health, on social relationships and good community experiences. We know that loneliness, mental health problems and drug problems can be prevented by targeted measures to promote well-being, participation and cohesion. Therefore, it is so important to understand and recognise the health promotion by, for example: art and cultural activity, and that we can have good arenas to gather for both audience experiences and self-participation. These are the qualities of our lives, both when we are children, young people and adults — and not least in our older years. It's probably not to hide that as a society we may not fully recognise the cultural and spiritual needs of the older population. At least we don't talk much about it. But even when we get older, we have people dreaming and wanting for our lives. We need to be able to participate, give of our experience, experience, and be included in the community. Fortunately, the government has granted money for good cultural actions specifically aimed at the elderly and others who are not so easily reaching the general offers. Many people are concerned about – and know something about – how the creative forces in art and culture affect our health. At the Nord-Trøndelag University, research has been carried out on the participation of individuals and groups in cultural life and on the relationship with health. For many groups, the context is very clear. It is about pain relief, about improving the mental health of people, for example. to alleviate anxiety and to increase cognitive and linguistic skills. The researchers in the Nord-Trøndelag point out that we need more research to get the full picture of the opportunities that lie in the relationship between culture and public health. I think they're right about that. Not least, more people should have investigated the impact music has on dents, both in terms of calming down and mental well-being, and in order to find back some of the language that has been lost. Another good example is found in Asker. At Sem farm, NaKuHel – i.e. nature-culture-health – was established in 1994 by Professor Gunnar Tellnes, who had long seen the need to connect these dimensions and focus their interaction. The Centre is organised as a foundation and operates largely through voluntary efforts. Here are a large number of activity groups in turn, with e.g. music, literature, local history and tour activities on the agenda – improving the health of participants as an important objective. User studies show that this works as intended. One of the participants at the centre said it this way: As a caring gardener stands a luxuriant flower, the NaKuHel-centre gave me exactly the nutrient-rich soil and a suitable climate that I got into and growing on. I'm concerned with the health-promoting perspective of public health work, what facilitates us to live happy, good, social and active lives. That perspective is central to the great story of the red-green government, from Soria Moria to today. That's what I would call ubuntu in the policy that's going to carry us in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2960	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2964	In the Communication on Public Health, local communities and municipalities have a significant part of their implementation responsibilities. Locally, public health is already doing a lot of good work. To be even better, we need models that share experience and new knowledge. That's why I want to follow the example of Tove Karoline Knutsen and refer to the nature-culture-health-center in my neighbouring municipality Asker. This centre has 20 years of experience in health promotion work. They gather and disseminate knowledge about good health through natural and cultural experiences, community, self-organisation and mastering. They focus on the mental dimension of health, balance, joy and mastering. Self-governed groups and healthy human beings achieve good results with very limited budgets. Children and young people are an important target group. This autumn, a pilot project will be carried out together with primary schools in Asker. NaKuHel highlights the importance of creative activities for children and young people in the community as a contribution to promoting quality of life and preventing mental disorders. The pilot project is a first step towards establishing a NaKuHel course in primary school. The Centre has a good cooperation with the municipality of Asker. Cooperation with other municipalities should contribute to the dissemination of knowledge regionally and nationally. The NaKuHel model is innovative and different, and I believe it is an important contribution to new steps in public health work in Norway. The Centre investigates how the concept can be further developed as a regional inspiration and knowledge centre for municipalities and non-governmental organisations in order to achieve the objectives of the Public Health Communication. I said that here you get a lot of results by very limited means. In the debates we have on public health – just as in those we had on the Interaction Reform – it is often said that in order to start preventive health work, a large amount of funding is needed first. Something needs appropriations, but precisely in the prevention field, there is a mass that doesn't cost one penny. Making a good spatial plan in a municipality does not cost more than a bad one. It costs nothing not to put out a Coke Machine at a school, and it costs nothing to give a man a smile and a greeting in the morning. Then glad hormones in the brain are triggered both by the smiler and the recipient of the smiler, and then we live a few seconds longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2979	To follow up the last speech, I have to say that most of the positive you can do in this area costs very little, but is very profitable. In this way I will give tribute to both the Council of State and the Government to be so clear in this field. It is also important outside health policy – that we move from a repair society to a preventive society, whether it is in social policy as such, justice policy or more defined in health policy. This kind of debate as a pure method, I think Stortinget should stay on and give higher status. In this way, I am pleased with such a clear message and as clear a perspective as I have seen in the past. That's what's needed. A quality of life stamp is needed, but a discussion of the capacity of the welfare community — and in particular of the public — is also very much needed in the future. There is a need to discuss prevention. Apart from all the efficiency debates, prevention, I think, will become more and more politically important. That is why this kind of debate and the message we are now handling are very important. I also believe that many of the measures we see in public health policy – such as tobacco, alcohol and many other good measures – are largely about being freedom-creating measures. That's why I disagree with the representative Kjenaas Kjos who focused more on measures that restrict people's freedom. Many of these measures extend the freedom of people and provide opportunities for people, whether children or adults, to live more fully than they could otherwise have done if the measures had not been taken. In this way, it is a paradox that those who are perhaps the most eager for repair and the most willing to give the most money on any occasion are those who may be slowing down the most effective prevention. Finally, I would like to stress that prevention is about something more than just that non-governmental organisations are taking you on a trip. I was met by the Tourist Association today early that had good tour options, and we must have it too. But it is largely about politics, about accessibility, about legislation – which the representative Høje was involved in – and about price. Perhaps a little bit beyond the marginal argumentation of the Advance Party. Alcohol policy is such an instrument. Just a few years ago, the World Health Organization reported that 600 000 people are dying of alcohol. One of four are young men. In Norway, these figures are significantly lower. This shows that prevention policies in Norway have been very successful. Politics has thus given back a lot of life and freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e2990	I fully agree with the comments made by the representatives of Health and Knutsen. King Solomon also said three thousand years ago, “Rejoice in the heart brings good health”. I think that's an observation most of us can sign. Public health is a demanding area, not least because it goes far into the private sphere of people. It's about how physically active we are and what we eat. It's about our habits and habits, and what happens from we get up in the morning until we go to bed in the evening. Nor can public health be limited to a short period of time in our lives. The foundation is laid while we are children and follow us through youth and adult life. We adult people affect our children again. Our health largely determines how old we get, and how old age should fade. Public health in Norway is generally better today than a few decades ago. Lifetime increases for every year and is among the top ten in the world. Changes in lifestyles, improved diet and reduced smoking include: contributed to this. At the same time, we see that living habits vary between social groups and can contribute to increased social health inequalities. Voluntary teams and organisations do a lot of work every day by facilitating good outdoor experiences and physical activity for all of us. Not least, a large amount of work is done through child and youth education, but it does not reach all. The physical activity of the Nordics has declined in the last 50 years, and fewer and fewer have been working hard. We drive a car, and many people are busy working and doing leisure activities. In particular, it is worrying that too many children are inactive. Anne Lise Ryel of the Cancer Association has said quite eloquently: «Before we had to call the children in. Now we must chase them out." In particular, I believe that work needs to be focused more clearly on the impact of health behaviour and lifestyle, the development of low-threshold services for physical activity and the planning of physical surroundings in order to make it easier to choose an active lifestyle. We need an overall approach to public health work, increased physical activity at school, access to swimming lessons and swimming pools are important factors, and schools and homes need to cooperate. Schools can not only solve the challenges of providing children with enough daily physical activity. It is so absolute a parental responsibility as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3001	It is in few areas that Gro’s familiar words that everything is related to everything are as valid as it is in the field of public health. The public health message is therefore a message that deserves many more than the health politicians to attend and discuss it. It is that several of us should have been aware that the political choices we make in most areas are somehow a choice of public health. On Tuesday we adopted the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. The transport plan that outlines transport policy for the next ten years is also an important plan for public health work. The elections taken on Tuesday on public transport and bicycle and pedestrian routes in major cities are important for public health. I do not remember any of those who took part in the debate, mentioned the word public health. But if any of us did, I'm pretty sure it was in the same sentence that we also mentioned the words walking and cycling. That's what's the most obvious area to look at in the context of health. It's spending over $8 billion. The next ten years will help many people choose to go and ride rather than take the car. The major public health challenge for the transport sector is road accidents. In 2012, 145 people lost their lives in traffic in Norway, and 699 people were severely injured. This is 145 for many lives that were lost, but that's the lowest number of people killed and injured on Norwegian roads since 1950, and that's 30 pst. lower than in 2005, despite traffic having increased by 12 pst. The red-green lots and the government have overfilled the current national transport plan in terms of money. It is important, but it is even more important that it has over-filled in road safety. There are even fewer fatalities and serious damage to Norwegian roads now than was the stage objective of the current national transport plan. And when we see that the number of deaths at the end of May was six fewer than at the same time in 2012, there's reason to assume that the positive trend continues. The zero vision, the vision of a future without fatal and severe damage to traffic, is an important leading star and underpins our thinking on road safety. But when we've come so far down in the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, it's ambitious that we've set a stage target for the next national transport plan on a halving of the number of fatalities and severe injuries. This will require us to apply increasingly new and more effective measures for an increasingly secure traffic. In order to move forward in road safety work – and therefore also in public health work – we need to take action that is more targeted than they are today, measures that are controversial, measures that will actually require courageous politicians. That's why it's good for me to finish my last post from the Parliament's pulpit with the following greetings to the politicians who are going to rule the country from the fall of: if we really mean anything with a zero vision, it will require controversial decisions by courageous politicians. We need a wide range of measures to achieve ambitious stage targets. Public health is about life and quality of life. We have no one to lose, nor in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3014	If I had only one penny to spend on health care, I would spend one penny on preventive health work. I mentioned in my previous post that natural and cultural experiences can lift us up. There's also something else that can promise us: we can lift ourselves up. Self-help is a force in this work. Health is the ability to master the demands of everyday life, said the informer Peter F. Hjort. I think that in a good way sums up a direction for public health work. Self-organised self-help is an understanding and a contribution in public health work that is about this, giving the individual the opportunity to master. Self-help work suggests that all people have inherent resources that can be activated, re-observed and mobilised when life’s problems arise. Self-help is a way to find the resources and make use of them. The values of this health perspective are important in public health work and are not just about working in self-help groups. Experience-based knowledge of our own problem represents resources that we almost have not used up to now. I believe this is a crucial health well for the future. Further efforts through the Self-Help Centre Norway and other actions in the national self-help plan will strengthen public health work and a sustainable welfare country. The national self-help plan, which is now being revised in the Health Directorate, aims to provide everyone with a knowledge of self-organised self-help. Here Self-help Norway does a good and very important job. Self-organized self-help makes us stronger as users and participants in their own lives and in society. Such lasting and good changes are created when life’s problems have grown too big. It must be said that self-organized self-help is one of the solid foundations of our public health work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3025	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Health who has so clearly raised the public health issue in the social debate – through this public health report, and not least through the cooperation reform, which we have been dealing with in the past, and new public health law. This has led to discussions across the country, in organisations, employment, municipalities, states and the state, on how to improve public health for the population. Better public health is created primarily outside the health sector. I will quote the last foreign minister: ‘Health is so important that it cannot be left to the Minister of Health alone.’ I think today's Minister of Health is very pleased with that quote from the former Minister of Foreign Affairs. Housing, education, work, leisure and social relations affect our health every day. This implies that we need to have a high level of involvement and involvement from many sectors of society. Good health is a shared responsibility. We have to facilitate healthy choices. Facilitating healthy choices is about bringing forward some good solutions, while at the same time being very restrictive in other areas. This will limit the life-style diseases we see. We see that lifestyle diseases are becoming a bigger and bigger problem around the world. An hour of physical activity is an important measure to stimulate children and young people to be active, whether in kindergarten or in school. Walking and cycling routes are also important. This is why, through the National Transport Plan, we have put up a formidable effort, because we want children and young people to ride to and from school. Extending the system of free fruit and vegetables is also important, also in order to learn how to choose what is healthy. I remember one day I was going to pick up my children in the nursery. It was a cold winter day, and I let the car stand idly. When I came out, all the children stood in the nursery and coughed and raked – they had learned that it was environmentally harmful. Then the children taught me that this was not very healthy and good, and I didn't do it more times. If children, both at kindergarten and at school, are trained to be active and to what to eat for lunch and lunch, they will also train us adults to make the right choices. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate good choices, both at home, at school and in leisure, and that we stimulate everyone to do so. Since we're talking about public health, I have to draw my voice again. – Then I have to go one more round up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3045	Good health is important. The Norwegian population is generally in good health. Maybe we take good health as a matter of course until it fails. What's challenging is that we see big social health differences. In general, groups of long-term education and high incomes have better health and live longer. It's a challenge we have to take seriously. Of course, everyone has a responsibility for their own health, but society is responsible for everyone's health. Then we have to make it easy to make good choices. Too often, the health debate is about the repair and treatment of diseases and disorders, not how we can prevent them. It is not always as popular to face the prevention measures. The Progress Party, which is very eager to debate drug treatment, is less willing to prevent. They want 18-year-olds to be able to buy alcohol at the grocery store throughout the opening hours of the store. That means that an 18-year-old is going to be able to buy wine, beer and spirits at the store from 8 p.m. 7:00 a.m. until 7:00 a.m. 23 in the evening, as well as on Sundays and public holidays, and that in addition to reducing tobacco and alcohol taxes and introducing EU customs rules on these goods, there is no good measure to prevent sickness and suffering. The left, which is also a party that likes to stand out in the rush debates, shall have wine and beers in the shops. It's a little special when everyone agrees that prevention is good, that you don't want regulation, which we know is proven to work. We know that it is important for children's learning that they have eaten. It is worrying that many children do not have food until they come to school or that they do not bring food packages. That's why we have to have more setups like what they have at Grålum School in Sarpsborg. For 80 000 kroner a year, the school has free lunch every day – it covers both the cost of food and the compensation of employees for assistants. Three days a week, students can buy lunch for between 15 and 25 kroner. Both the students, the parents and the teachers are very pleased with that arrangement. Teachers say it has great significance for the concentration of rivers, and that it is positive because it creates a good social environment. When we see that it has such good results, it's a little special that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party cannot agree that it's important that the schools provide good meals and offer fruit and vegetables during the school day. Public health is not something we only do in the health sector. We have to think public health in everything we do. To borrow the minister's words, it's better to build healthy children than to repair sick adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3056	As we have heard in the debate here, public health is so lacking – from the great joint actions being solved by the community to what each of us can do for ourselves. We know that physical and mental health belong together, that the use of culture and nature, sport for all – at all levels – organised free areas, and the public's right to the swahberg, the bathing area and the coastal path are public health. It's easy to agree. But one thing we have a little more political disagreement about, and that's the use and availability of alcohol, and what that means for public health. When, for example, the Left Party and the Advance Party: will increase accessibility — having wine in the store and longer opening hours — give poor public health signals. So they say one thing -- it's good with public health -- but they want something else. The welfare committee of the Nordic Council has highlighted alcohol use from a public health perspective in the Nordic region. The committee proposal, which was largely endorsed by the session, consists of twelve well-founded proposals which should be easy to implement. This will be done, inter alia, in order to: set up a working group to look at the relevance of all research undertaken in order to find the best solutions to reduce the problems. It is also important to strengthen evidence-based research in order to see the impact on chronic diseases, lifestyle diseases and the impact on children and young people growing up in homes with severe alcohol abuse. Alcohol as an alcohol policy measure is also mentioned, as accidents related to car use and alcohol have major consequences and affect many children and adults. It also points out that we need to cooperate more in the Nordic region, more with the EU and with other actors in order to find good solutions, because we recognise that all countries have the same major challenges. The Council, which comes from all major research environments, is that availability and price are the best instruments. Most recommend that everyone follow the model of Norway with a wine monopoly. So weakening or eroding the wine monopoly is the wrong way to go if we mean anything that we're going to affect public health. It is important that a person has a conscious relationship with the fact that the alcohol policy in his country also affects public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3078	Case No. 12, representatives of the Progress Party on Special Olympics Norway: An overall committee agrees with the proposers on the importance that mental retardation should also be given the opportunity to participate in public health promotion and sport activities. People with mental retardation are often dependent on good organisation and organised sports offerings, other voluntary teams and associations — often in cooperation with local authorities. I am referring to the fact that the government, through the funds allocated to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee, facilitates a wide range of sports participation in the community of disabled people, and will highlight the sport's work on integration, where the various organisations are responsible for the provision of services to disabled persons. Special Olympics Norway is not a member of the Sports Association – this is not included in the proposal for a representative. The organisation has had a cooperation agreement with the Sports Association which was terminated earlier this year after the cooperation of Special Olympics Norway with Eurolotto. The Special Olympics movement is involved in the spread of sport for people with developmental disabilities, and many Norwegian sports profiles support the organisation with ambassadorial work. Norwegian athletes are very international here as well. Special Olympics were arranged in Pyeongchang in South Korea from 29 January to 5 February this year. The Norwegian troops, with 27 participants, won a total of 16 gold, 10 silver and 20 bronze medals. This is a double compared to the championship four years ago in Idaho, USA. It's an honor to be congratulated by the Great Council. So good results may be due to a bit of organisation and support equipment, but it's the active ones who show endurance in training, and that's the best thing about it. With regard to the Verbal proposals of the Progress Party itself, we believe it will have its natural place as part of the Storting's consideration of the budget later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3095	I have a comment for school food. The representative, Höie, said from the spokesperson that schooling is not the responsibility of the state, that there is a choice between what measures are most important to children in school, and that the most important thing for the Right is that the competence of teachers is increased. I mean, right and right is wrong. Expanding the school fruit scheme and strengthening food supply in schools is not a school priority, it is a health priority. To bet on a school meal is a choice between repair and prevention. There is no choice between fruit and vegetables and a better teacher. There is a choice between getting even higher health costs and treatment queues in the future and taking action to reduce them. It is a choice to reduce social health inequalities in the population, and it is a health priority to give children and young people equal opportunities for good health. This is when a health priority Right and also not the Left and Christian People's Party are willing to take. They actually choose to remove the fruit and vegetables scheme. I don't understand. It's okay that this wasn't introduced by them, but that one will take away free of charge from the students in the basic school after the election, with the reason that it's going to make learning better, I can't understand. We know better. The experience with fruit and greenery and school meal shows that it provides better learning. There is more concentration, there is more calm in the classroom, and it is also reported to reduce bullying. But to me, this is not the most important thing – it is a health priority. And then we also know that when it comes to the subscription scheme, which these parties will have instead, we have solid investigations that there is a supply of resources. It leads to social health differences. The payment scheme is for those who pay. So a comment on the Progress Party that indicates that alcohol consumption has increased in Norway – and that there is evidence that our policy is not working. I just have to say that there's a little bit of an easy point. If you look down in Europe, you will see the consequences of what an alternative alcohol policy will be – something that the Progress Party is in favour of. The party on progress will use research as a measure of better public health. Research is always good, but it is strange that the Progress Party refuses to take on the research and knowledge we have, on the link between restrictive alcohol policy and availability, and between price and alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3109	Some additional comments — one with knowledge. I just want to highlight it in the message that says that we need to gather knowledge and take advantage of it. In my first week as Minister of Health, I visited HUNT in Nord-Trøndelag. I'm going back to visit them tomorrow. I think it's very important that this magnification signals that we're going to be ready to support a HUNT 4 that secures Norway's unique material. The second is that we support the Public Health Institute's ability to conduct advanced public health research. It's very important for the policy design, and I hope that the Storting will be aware of that. Now, as Minister of Health, I enjoy everything we have in common in this room, and I don't want to talk any of it down. But I want to remind you that there are some deeper relationships here that actually draw in a slightly different direction. I believe that the Progress Party, for example. is very good at presenting a wide range of proposals to enhance the ability to repair, while those on what leads to the problems that need to be repaired are getting out quite freely — whether it be alcohol or tobacco. We have foe spot cancer/solarium as an example, where it is believed that the measures taken should be removed, or for example. food content. Both the Right and the Advance Party have proposals for distribution policy, which will move towards greater differences — sometimes also highlighted as an advantage — but the study presented today by the Health Directorate shows that small differences are good for health. Then I wonder very much, and I think Kjersti Toppe made a good contribution here, that the answer – to the challenges of food and physical activity in school – from the Right is to say, the teacher. I'm thinking, where's the opposite? We're all too better and more teachers. It's important to the school. But there's a crossroads between health and learning: the fact that the students are calm, have eaten and are getting involved, and that they are socially evenly distributed. I think it is a strange short-circuit and a rather eloquent attitude. Finally, there are many proposals for removing taxes here and removing charges there. I'm not against looking at these instruments, but I think we have to realize that they have varying to limited impact on consumption. In one area, I think it's interesting to see that while the Progress Party is now fronting tax exemption for training in training studios – I think the training studios are very much for that, and I don't want to talk down the meaning that several practice studios – say a lot in this room, and I'm very happy that the most important thing we can do, especially for those who sit completely silent, is to use an Urnorc resource that's there for free, and as 80 pst. And we're saying that we'd like to use it if we're going to move, that's open-air life. It's not just something that should look like a nice attitude to everyone going on a trip. I am very impressed by how many municipalities facilitate outdoor life by shortening the road to what is already there, and is a unique public health advantage for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3124	School is an important prevention arena. The curricula help children and young people to gain knowledge of how best to take care of one’s own health by eating healthy and being physically active. But the school alone can't raise public health. The right considers it essential to strengthen cooperation between school and home in this area. The school must help to provide parents with insight into the importance of children eating lunch, having food at school, and being active even after school. The right will facilitate daily physical activity for the students. Local authorities must be challenged to make better use of the local space for action, and can, for example: organise the day of school with longer breaks, giving students more opportunity to be physically active. It's not really a big paradox that we've never had miles of walking and cycling paths, but that we've never had more parents driving kids to school, or kids who get school kisses. At the same time, we have studies that show that going to school is the best start of the school day, because the students then meet the awake and the smarter, and get more benefit from the first part of the school day. A good school health service is also important to prevent and help the many children and young people who are struggling with mental illness. Preventing damage can be a significant contribution to improving public health. Injury prevention forums are coordinators of 20 municipalities and Sogn and Fjordane counties, all of which are certified according to the World Health Organisation standard ‘Safe Communities’, or Safe communities, as it is called in Norwegian. Harstad became the first Norwegian certified municipality in 1994 and in the committee setting it is shown that Harstad, together with Os in Østerdalen, has been in the front for systematic damage prevention work, with good results. In Harstad, the health sister Solveig Rostøl Bakken and the surgeon and Professor Børge Ytterstad have been pioneers, and have put lasting traces behind them. Public health benefits are indisputable when scalding injuries in young children are virtually eradicated, and when treatment in the municipality and the elderly has been given the recipe for effective prevention of femoral fractures in the elderly. Cooperation across administrative and sectoral levels and good accident statistics has made it possible to put in place effective prevention measures. Safe local communities are based on a model and a methodology based on multidisciplinary cooperation and local efforts across the public and voluntary sectors. The benefits of greater efforts to prevent accidents are increased quality of life, better use of hospital capacity and a smart economy. Accidents are cause of death No. 1 in the 1–44 age group, not cancer or other diseases, which many people may think. Better identification of accident causes can therefore be the key to saved lives and more good years of life. A good record is therefore a good public health measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3139	First of all, I would like to join fully until the representative Toppe's posts and the Minister of Health's last posts. I am also very surprised that the opposition does not understand that school food and school fruit are good. To put it that way, you don't get too many teachers for some bananas. If you're concerned about it, you have to give teachers priority. That's what SV wants, and I challenge the opposition to that. But I'm going to take the floor on another matter, and it's about public health also having to be about health services not causing people health problems. There is a lot of drug use in Norway. One type of medicine that makes a terrible use of is called B-drugs: sleeping medications, sedative pills, and analgesics. That's what you take, and get, in the context of life's crises -- very often too long. It says in the supervisor that you shouldn't take these drugs for a long time. Then there are side effects, which are diagnosed as new disease, often mental, sometimes physical, and you are again being medicated. This makes people sick. In Sweden and Denmark, a large number of professional units are involved, and in Norway, we are dealing with this together with both Russians and others. This isn't a rush. It's not people who have been seeking drugs, it's people who are seeking to dampen a pain, and who are being put on a health problem. I am very pleased with the comments that have been made about having a supervisor now, and working on it. But I don't think there's a lack of guidance really, because the one that exists is pretty good, if it had been used. But the Minister of Health said that it was important to gather knowledge, and I want to challenge the Minister of Health a little bit about going into this field. I've been working with people who have fallen out of work for all the years I've been on Stortinget, and I've had social difficulties. In Sweden, it has been investigated, and found out that of those who do this out of work and never manage to get foothold again, it's over 80 pst. which has such a drug use and which has had major health problems — it is at the heart of the problems that make them unresponsive. The problem is that it's hard to step down on this. Some are stepped down too fast, or the doctor just stops. It often ends in a drug addiction. In my opinion, recovery units are needed in all health regions for this. Knowledge of primary doctors is needed in order not to cause health problems to people, and in that case help them out of it in a more professional way than you do today. I'm absolutely sure that a deep dive into this knowledge is necessary in Norway, because I'm pretty sure we don't have all the knowledge, and at least that it's not present in the primary health service of the doctors, who are the printers, and who aren't always able to guide people out of this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3156	Psychiatric health must be seen from a public health perspective, because everyone has it. It's about joy and sorrow, or sadness, it's about how we think, our behavior, how we act in groups, and how we're alone. It's about how we evolve, about outreach and introversion, about attitudes and about anxiety and mastery. It's just about how we go through life. Looking at psychology as a subject, a quick person will discover that what we call illness is important, but is just a small part of the subject. We often hear that the value of the population's labour force is greater than what we have in the oil industry. Then it goes without saying that how we take care of mental health is about how we manage the country's mental capital. Prevention must start early. Kindergarten reform has had unparalleled positive effects. There is extensive evidence that high-quality kindergartens have major and long-term positive effects on the future mental health development of children. The effect is greatest for children who come from home where their parents have low education and income. Because children start there at an early age, and almost everyone is there, and because the environmental basis for good mental health is usually laid in early childhood, kindergartens have become important for public health that no one had initially expected. It's in kindergarten kids learn to regulate their emotions, think logically and creatively, expand and control their behavior, deal with their relationship with others and master challenge and conflict. It is important that kindergartens promote mental health and well-being and build up the ability to withstand pressures that can lead to mental disorders later in life. The pediatric subject paragraph does not currently cover the psychosocial environment. The government will do something about that, and now it's investigating this. That is a good public health policy. School is an arena where children meet and learn. There they learn about physical health, and how the body relates, but I've gone through the curricula with mental health for the eye, and the theme is almost absent. Thus, children do not learn enough about how the brain works, or train the ability to put words on what they experience in life. Children’s challenges are discovered too late. So there has to be a discussion about mental health in school. I would like to commend the Committee on the lowthreshold provision of children and young people in school and the commitment to the school health service. That's the right way to go, because everyone has a mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3167	Red-green recipe is healthy. It gives better public health. It gives a cultural promise. It gives a voluntary promise. And that gives you a sporting lift. The voluntary sector is important for achieving good and important public health objectives. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was concerned that we are not paying too little in the voluntary sector. I just want to remind you that in this year's state budget there are 950 million. kr in VAT compensation, and until next year it is promised to go up to 1.2 billion. kr. There is a unified solution between the voluntary sector and the government. In addition, the current budget allocates 62 million. kr for sports facilities – of the VAT compensation, which is 100 pst. compensation — and also in 2010 and 2011, with a slight curtailment in 2012. Herbicides have been allocated to the voluntary sector in excess of 600 million. kr. It has also been said that the key should be changed to 64 pst, which will mean an increase of more than 600 to 700 million. kr to Norwegian sport, for physical activity. We've got a lot of good input from volunteering and Norwegian sport. Today, I gave out a prize, "A speaker magnification". We have here in the house had club championships in walking stairs. A female employee walked in the course of a week 700 stories. That's good – there's good public health in it. Sport and volunteering contribute in many areas. It is Great & Strong, The Physical School, Folkepulsen, Health Centres, Friskis & Svettis, Active in Daytime, A Speaker Norway, Sports Schools, Seniors, Training Contacts, Sports & Challenges, Club Actions Storby, Active Business, Cyckle to Jobben and Active Municipality. It is important that we – both magnificence and government – participate in and contribute to the further stimulation of volunteering, in order to improve public health around the country. In addition to stimulating the voluntary sector, it is important to limit some factors. It is about, among other things: tobacco taxes. I am extra happy to hear that also right, in line with the government, want high taxes on tobacco and snuff, and not least on alcohol. This restricts alcohol consumption and at the same time rings the wine monopoly system, which makes the restriction of alcohol excessive. It's important, I think, when we see that more availability and lower prices of tobacco, snuff and alcohol increase consumption. It is good to see that a total increase, with the exception of the Advance Party, is in line to take action to improve public health – as an important piece in the future. We have to figure that out in a good way. Good information in society is important — in schools, through organisations such as the MOT, etc. This we must bet on in the future as well. Good information for right choices is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3180	I would like to start my post with something that illustrates a very important difference between a large majority on the Grand Duchy and, in particular, the Advancement Party. It goes into the view of the individual and society. In this debate, too, the Progress Party has said that we are first and foremost individuals and not groups. It's just sad. As a social democrat, I am committed to finding out how dependent we as human beings are on community. We need to belong to a community. We need to know a meaning in everyday life, we need to mean something to others. There's a lot of public health when we feel it. We see obvious and very clear public health problems as a result of the cultivation of individuals and bodies, advertising, alcohol and tobacco freeing, loneliness, etc. That's why, as a social democrat, I'm also concerned that we need to build societies where we take responsibility for each other, and where we lift in flocks. This is a major freedom project, because freedom is not only freedom to, it is also freedom from, which is an important example of the discussion about the smoking law. Here's the public health report. It's groundbreaking. I would like to highlight in particular what is important, which concerns consumer issues, food labelling and advertising aimed at children. Another way of showing community is through the HUNT, the North-Trunde Team Health Survey, which is a social well-being where North-Trundeers — including young people, through Ung-HUNT — contribute greatly with their blood, which provides a broad overview of public health, and which is relevant to the rest of the country and internationally. And maybe the northern ones don't move as much as the other ones, so it's a fairly homogeneous and stable group to research at. We also see that there have been more than one hundred doctoral degrees as a result of HUNT 1, 2 and 3. It's very valuable findings and data. Interestingly, this is now made available to the municipalities, so that one can see at the municipal level how public health is at stake – so that an active, preventive work can be carried out in each municipality. That's good. This is a pioneer work. Tomorrow, the Council of State will have the opportunity, as he himself says, to look at this work for another visit to the HUNT Research Centre in Levanger. I would like to take this opportunity to express great satisfaction at the fact that both the Public Health Communication and the Council of State send positive signals about the work to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3191	Outdoor life is important for our physical health as well as for our mental health. It gives good arenas for mastering and social community. As a low-threshold activity in the community, outdoor life is well suited for everyone and therefore contributes to the cohesion of social differences in public health. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that outdoor life is well anchored as an instrument in public health work. Tours, light loops and larger outdoor areas for trips and leisure activities are among the facilities used by the majority of the population. The organisation of outdoor activities in the community is one of the most effective measures to stimulate increased physical activity. A real effort requires public drag and support. Active management of open air areas and archipelago parks is necessary to ensure the attractiveness and accessibility of the public and to facilitate positive outdoor experiences and physical activity for all. After hearing the representative, Jorodd Asphjell, I thought that although I am going to wear Tribune on the weekend and hey and hey and hey, I must support the proposals. 7 and No 11, which mentions that we need to increase grants for outdoor life in the coming years. It's important for public health that we don't just bet on sports, which are good and good. With regard to the issue of the introduction of school food, I do not think that either the SV, the Workers' Party or the Center Party have all the credibility of the world. They've been in government for eight years without getting anything but fruit and green in some schools, despite being a majority government that we in the opposition are subject to every single day. Christian People's Party is a supporter of healthy food in school. We know there's a connection between healthy and good meals and school performance. Most children in school today get a good food package from home. For teachers, it should be an affordable task to follow up those students who don't. Food should be a topic of school-home cooperation. We also believe that each school can find good arrangements to ensure that all students get lunch and lunch during the school day. So a little visit to a debate we had earlier this week, about deaf blindness and leisure activity. The deaf blind have received a lower offer of leisure activity compared to the changes made by the government in 2012. They lose the interpreters with whom they have to engage in physical activity. In the last few hours, we have discussed physical activity and preventive health. We isolate 350 people who can't interpret enough to be physically active. There should be a challenge in this debate too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3208	It's been a good debate. I think the representative Storberget reminded us of something important: Repair costs. It costs for the individual, and it costs for the community. We have to go from being a repair society to becoming a prevention society. It concerns the justice sector, the emergency sector, health policy, and the rest. Yes, the Nordics have good health, but lifestyle diseases are a global epidemic that has also hit Norway. Smokers live eleven years shorter than non-smokers. Life-style diseases lead not only to disease and death but also to a reduction in the quality of life, shame and guilt, isolation and new diseases and ill health. Good health is not created in hospitals and medical offices. Using resources on prevention is a good investment. To leave is expensive. We agree on a lot here today, but we also disagree on a lot. Fruit and vegetables in school have been up, and it is interesting to hear the representative from the Christian People's Party attack the government for not having done more, when she seeks cooperation with someone who wants to abolish what she thinks it is too little of. We also disagree on the smoking law – a lot to be said about it – and we disagree with the alcohol policy. I have to say it's special to hear the Progress Party talk about public health. The action programme of the Party states that Norway should comply with EU rules on the import of alcohol and tobacco – a duty-free quota calculated by our country for 110 litres of beer, 90 litres of wine, 10 litres of alcohol and 20 litres of liqueur wine. That it gets full on the Fly train, is probably the least problem this proposal raises. Some words about outdoor life eventually: outdoor life trumps everything else. The representative's tendency is that outdoor life is the source of health and experiences for many, many people. Outdoor life is so much more than health. It reduces stress, gives natural experiences – large and small – like knowing the wind in your hair or experiencing a winter night in Rondane. It provides increased knowledge of animals and plants, stars, planets, berries and fungi. It's about setting up a tent, tying a knot, fire. All of this is completely free of charge. The working party shares the ambition to prioritize outdoor life and will therefore support proposal No. 11 from the Left, which is distributed in places, and I would encourage the red-green representatives to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3217	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3231	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3240	This representative proposal is based on the fact that some patients are resource-intensive and very conscious of the services they are entitled to and need, while other patient groups have a less conscious relationship with this. A Joint Committee has stressed in its comments that many individuals, for various reasons, will have little opportunity to promote their rights and needs, and for this reason specific requirements for legislation, regulation, organisation, knowledge and ethical reflection are imposed. Furthermore, the Committee has stressed that the same conditions in special situations can be the situation for all of us, including for individuals who would otherwise consider themselves to be resource-intensive. We are all vulnerable to serious illness, and the organisation and operation of healthcare must be based on this. Accidents leading to death are very serious, and society has an ethical duty to work systematically to prevent such events. It is therefore gratifying that better knowledge, increased awareness and systematic improvement work across patient safety are now being established among the most important issues on the health policy agenda and in healthcare. Report. St. 10 for 2012–2013 on quality and patient safety in healthcare describes both the work in progress and the direction of further work. Good solutions will balance demanding dilemmas, including: related to the notification of adverse events, good learning culture and the issue of societal responses to breaches of law and regulation. Therefore, there is a need to assess whether current instruments to address suspicions of crime or serious incidents are adequate, including an assessment of issues related to learning and the use of sanctions against health professionals and healthcare establishments. A Joint Committee therefore supports the announcement by the Government of a wide-ranging investigation into how society should follow up serious incidents and suspicions of crime. The Committee considers it natural that the selection should also consider how the interests of vulnerable groups should be safeguarded in the event of unpredictable serious incidents and that the role of relatives should also be assessed in addition to the work already carried out. Otherwise, I refer you to the Storting’s recent treatment and decision on changes to the Patient and User Rights Act in terms of strengthening the position of patients, users and relatives. Following the majority's assessment, the substantial part of the draft representative has been taken care of through work in progress, and we propose that the document be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3255	Losing one's closest is one of the worst things that can happen to a human being. Losing a child is every parent's worst nightmare, and we who haven't been in that situation can just try to understand. Today I know that a mother is following this debate very carefully. She lost her child in a Norwegian hospital. She came there with her son to get help, but went home alone. Some patients are more vulnerable than others. In this case, the patient did not have language and therefore could not communicate with his or her therapists at the hospital. The mother's desperate attempt to communicate to the health care professional that she noticed to her son that something was serious was not taken seriously. Her son was only 15 years old. Every story like that touches us all. We've all probably also experienced how difficult it can be to communicate with people without language or who can otherwise be difficult to understand. There are situations that can happen to all of us. Some have this from birth on and off, others experience 100 pst. functional health at one moment for this, e.g. after a stroke, to be nurturing without language in the next. I and probably a lot of people with me have experienced the great thing about people who are close to these, spouses, friends, children, etc., yet are able to understand and communicate, despite the lack of language. When we experience this in everyday situations, we can all imagine how difficult it can be in a serious hospital situation. The meeting with these people and these stories has done something to me in my four years as a health politician. It upsets me, it makes me angry, and it makes me eager to make improvements, so that others can avoid getting into similar situations. We will never be able to guard against all unfortunate events in the health sector, but we should use the experience we have brought with us to improve health care. I hope that no one else will experience what this mother has been through. Unfortunately, I think it's going to happen if you don't add political draw fights and the game between opposition and position and put quality and patient safety in the high seat. In the case that is the basis of this proposal for a representative, the State Health Authority has concluded that the patient was not given the offer she should have been given. So the patient did not get proper health care. What is particularly worrying, however, is that this case seems to reveal a greater problem than many – including myself – predicted. How are vulnerable patient groups and their relatives met by health services? It's a question that we should all ask ourselves. There is no doubt that some patients have greater challenges to understand about the health sector than others. Good competence and established procedures for meeting these patients and, where appropriate, their relatives are essential and essential. Only in this way can we avoid similar happening again. Unfortunately, I have a good feeling in my body today, and it's not just a cold in the summer. Indeed, the size will vote in favour of this proposal to strengthen patient rights for vulnerable patient groups. I think it's a terrible bad signal to send to the country's patients and health professionals. The government says they won't vote for this proposal because they're working on a case to strengthen patient rights for all patient groups. That is very good, but not at all an argument that the Storting should vote against the proposal. Rather, this is an argument that the Storting should give a clear signal that this patient group deserves a special focus in the work being done. In my, probably, last post from the Stockholm pulpit, I would like to see an overall increase in order to give the government a signal that this patient group needs to be given priority in terms of improvements in patient rights. It would not be a victory for the Progress Party, but it would give this mother who sits and follows the debate – and many others – a legitimate hope of being seen, believed and cared for by the country's elected representatives. I would like to bring up the proposals that are referred to in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3283	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3286	Let me start by saying that I see and hear this mother to whom the representative refers. Her case has made an impression on us. And we, as politicians and the country's elected representatives, are to take care of her interests. The quality message was aimed at communicating a message that now attention needs to be much more focused on the individual patient’s rights and the quality we offer to the patient. All patients are vulnerable and need attention, content and quality. The service shall place patients, users and relatives in the centre. Good quality and improved patient safety with fewer adverse events are important objectives. Then we must have systematic quality work throughout the business, and the work must be anchored in top management – it is a management responsibility – but must be patient-friendly to keep it going. The government and central health authorities have a responsibility to support the quality and patient safety of the service. The Patient Safety Campaign in ‘In Safe Hands’ is an example of an action undertaken at national level. From 2014, the campaign will continue in a five-year national patient safety programme. Patients, users and relatives are important resources in patient safety. One of the leaders is to further develop user involvement in patient safety. The size has also recently adopted a number of legal provisions aimed at strengthening patients, users and relatives in the event of adverse events and in health and care surveillance. I'm very busy following this up in the department nine hours. Because we can all be vulnerable when disease strikes you or the nearest one. The regulatory framework already takes account of the fact that some are more vulnerable than others and that information and help needs to be adapted accordingly. It is, however, so important that this legislation is complied with in order to meet the objective that I felt the representative underlined here today. According to current legislation, patients, users and related requirements for information on health status, treatment courses and patient rights are required. The information shall be appropriate to the assumptions of the recipient and health professionals shall ensure, as far as possible, that the recipient has understood the content and meaning of the information. Patients and users also have the right to participate in the provision of health and care services. It's not just a right, but also better for the treatment patients get. Furthermore, the requirement of professional soundness and careful assistance means that patients and the individual needs of users are at the heart of the provision of health and care services. As is known, the government sees the need to investigate how society should follow up serious incidents and suspicions of crimes in the healthcare sector. Tomorrow I will present proposals for a sample that will investigate this widely. This investigation is one of several measures aimed at ensuring a better follow-up to events that have led to unpredictable patient injury or death. I believe, like the majority of the Committee, that the objectives and measures of the Single European Act on quality and patient safety and the legislative proposals adopted safeguard the intentions, intentions and sympathy of the proposers, and for which I support, and that in this way we strengthen patient rights for vulnerable groups. Furthermore, the question of how the interests of vulnerable groups should be safeguarded in the event of unpredictable, serious incidents will be one of several themes of the envisaged sample. I would like to say from this speaker to the previous speaker that his commitment in this area is important and will be missed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3315	I'm going to be very short and just ask the Council of State once again to assure me that despite the decision today is going to be a special focus on this group in the work that is now happening. I would like to use the rest of my line to thank both the Stortinget, thank the President and not least the Council of State for good debates over the years that have been – thank you for the factual disagreement that has been, and that in the way we conduct democracy, we all have respect for each other. Then I'm going to try to get allowed to wish the Council of State happiness in the future, perhaps primarily in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3322	The President will also be allowed to thank Per Arne Olsen for the effort and commitment he has shown in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3325	I accept the pleasant words and will make the very last one ashamed. I want to put all the effort into it – in a friendly way. Yes, I think we should have a special focus on this group. And I have to say that I experience in the vast majority of things you encounter by health professionals a caution that people are different, but that they are equal in the right to care they are to receive. In this way, there is no need for care that is exactly the same when we come in and are vulnerable in such a situation. That's why I think having a rather universal principle that health care is to be provided is the best way to see the individual. I'd get a little worried if we were to start to measure what kind of care and attention patients should get, because we'll always be in the frontier between some patients who might be on that side or maybe on that side. We must have confidence in the training and management of those who work in our health and care services – trust that they can see the special needs that the representative has shown in the particular case he has mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3336	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3352	As in previous years, this is the last case from the Health and Care Committee to the Stortinget. It concerns annual regulation of rates for population-rescue suspension for medical, psychological and physiotherapy assistance. These tariffs run from 1 July to 30 June of the next year. The processes for new tariffs are in progress, but have not been completed. This year will be negotiated with the doctors’ organisation and with the psychologists’ organisation, and this will be for reasons set out in the timing, consultation and discussion meetings with the three physiotherapy organisations. It is the Joint Committee which only promotes joint comments and supports the award of the necessary powers to the Ministry. Since this is the last filed case from the Committee in this big deal, I would like to thank the Committee for very good disagreements, for good work environment and a lot of public health through a very good sense of humor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3363	Since it was the last case of the Health and Care Committee, the President will take the opportunity to thank him for having followed many interesting and good debates. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3379	It's a unanimous committee that wants to agree to the development of the E6 Alta West. There is a total distance of 13 km where two tunnels are built of a total of 3.6 km. As such, the project will reduce the E6 by about 2 km and, as I said, it is a unanimous committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3384	As the rapporteur explained, there is a unanimous position in this matter. I am very pleased that we had discussed the matter before the summer and that the committee was so flexible and flexible, otherwise we would have stopped building the project. The reason I take the floor in this case is the comments from the opposition parties regarding the number of tenders used in this section. The conclusion drawn by the opposition parties is not at all the conclusion and experience of the State Road Administration and the other actors behind this development. On the contrary, they have very good experience that there have been so many tenders on this route, because this has given the possibility to use both local, national and international competences. Now, as you know, there are some problems related to one of the international companies that are in there, but that's very good experience. There has been considerable competition for individual projects and there has been considerable local ring-fence that so many local entrepreneurs have had the opportunity to participate in this development. Both the industry and the trade organisations in the area are satisfied. This has also led to a saving, but it has not taken longer or had consequences for the pace. I believe that this particular case is a good example of how important it is to use different contract strategies for different transport projects. Now I'm not going to go up again the debate we had on Tuesday in connection with the NTP. It was both long and extensive. But I would still recommend the opposition to adopt a slightly more dynamic and flexible approach to different transport projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3395	As the representative of the Bjørnflaten was in, the NTP debate was on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3398	I record that we disagree in this way in the matter, but with regard to the case proposal, it is a unanimous committee that submits it. I then thought that I would take the opportunity to wish all my colleagues a really good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3405	There was a good conclusion to case no. 15th Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3421	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3430	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its flexible and rapid examination of a matter which came at the very latest possible time for the Committee. So thank you so much for the fact that it was possible to get this case processed before the Storting goes apart. What we're going to deal with today is two new couples on the E18 towards the Swedish border. There's every reason to enjoy two new parcels of 6 and 7 km of new road that's being added to the construction start as soon as we've made the decision. The route E18 Oslo–Ørje/Riksgrensen and Stockholm is the second most important route to and from abroad, following corridor 1 Oslo–Svinesund. The road is of great regional importance especially for Eastfold and Inner Eastfold, but also for freight and passenger traffic to and from Sweden, Finland, the Baltic region and Russia – and therefore for the whole country. The Oslo–Riksgren range is important for both passenger and business transport, and closer to 20 pst. of all international goods transport services to and from Norway on the road are carried on E18 through Eastfold. The Committee is pleased to announce the start of construction of the Knapstad–Rivet section during 2013 and the Riksgren–Ørje section in 2014 and that both sections are expected to be open to traffic in 2016. The Committee notes that these are the last two sections of the E18 Eastfold package and that there is local political support for the proposed package. In the context of the examination of the deployment and financing arrangements for the project E18 Krosby-Knapstad, it is also decided to extend the recovery period from 15 to 20 years for both E6 and E18. Rehabilitation and new construction of the 58 km long section is now to be completed with the last two sections of E18 in Eastfold. The majority of the Committee sees it as an important and necessary investment for both road safety and competitiveness. A different majority from what I have mentioned – the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party – also believe that it is necessary for the E18 to be completed as a non-meeting road on the entire section of the Riksgren–Vinterbro by 2020. In order to ensure continuous expansion, the route from Retvet in Akershus to Winterbro in Akershus must also be started as originally planned for the first part of the planning period. Then I'm going to mention and point out some particular issues, seen from my party right. We will stress the importance of realizing precisely E18 between Winterbro and the Swedish border and are critical of this being done piece by piece and division. This has meant that the project has taken much longer and has become much more expensive than necessary. The Smålen newspaper on Saturday, 8 June this year says in the director of the newspaper: «E18 is never completed». The right share the view that E18 has become a textbook in short-term thinking and how to waste our tax revenue, both on government budgets and on tolls. The first municipal government treatment in Inner Eastfold of tolling E18 in Eastfold was already treated in 1989. We note that ‘forced expansion’ has taken 24 years today and will have taken a full 27 years in 2016, as the sections are expected to be completed. There is every reason to recall that former centre party leader Haga promised completion in the 2005 election campaign in 2009. E18 between Lundeby and Ørje has already become too narrow and does not meet today's requirements. A number of bridges and sections need to be expanded. The road must be converted from two-field to two-field with pass-by fields and middle parts, which is reported to be more expensive than if it had been built four-field road from the start of. The development of E18 through Inner Eastfold is an example of how not to plan and build for the future. The right considers that the four-field road on the entire Oslo–Riksgren route had been building for the future. Instead, we have built piece by piece and expensive. Right will have more road faster! Building overall, faster, continuously and with clear funding ensures more money. In this area, there is a need for modern solutions, which we absolutely need, and which the Right is calling for. We want the existing two-field and three-field sections of the E18 Oslo-Ørje/Riksgren to be upgraded to four-field roads and indicate that the Right has previously proposed to extend this as an overall public-private cooperation project and that the way would already have been completed with our solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3458	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his swift and good treatment. I can stand behind that part of her post that was the case rapporteur's post, and I think the committee deserves credit for the fact that they would deal with the matter. There is no one who believes this is an ideal case, but I believe both the case rapporteur and I share the interest that this matter was raised in this session. With these two extensions, E18 will be completed in Eastfold, from the border of the national border to Akershus and Krökstad. It's kind of nice that the last matter I've been involved in in the committee, ends up in my hometown. Then I also got the opportunity to greet home, which I have noticed is a habit of doing from this pulpit. The last route to complete the E18 development until Winterbro has a place in the government's national transport plan, as the Stortinget treated a few days ago. With that distance, we can set the final line for the E18 extension. The real reason why I took the floor is a discussion of the lateral measures mentioned in the attitude comments from the opposition. This applies to fv. 115 in the Ringnes Valley. I Prop. 131 S for 2010–2011 refers to the fact that the Municipality of Skiptvet assumes that the development of Fv. 115 in the Ringnesdalen was to be financed by the Eastfold Package. The proposition states that decisions not to cross between E18 and Fv are taken. 122 in the municipality of Spydeberg, it was rather agreed to increase the framework for cross-road measures by 40 million. 2004 crowns, which were the stipulated cost of the cross, and then as a subsidy for the correction of Fv. 115, which was then a highway. This happened in 2003. Measures to be taken on the current fv. 115 in the Ringnes Valley was thus not part of the Eastfold package, but came in as a contribution to the framework for cross-roads measures as a result of the crossing at fv. 122 were not to be built. I Prop. 131 S is to be provided that, in addition to this, costs must be financed within the ordinary framework of the county council for investments on the county road network, possibly within the remaining means of cross-road measures. It's been a cost increase. As far as I know, the county council has agreed to finance half of the additional costs of reforming Fv. 115 will result, but there is no agreement between the municipalities of Inner Eastfold on the use of cross-roads to finance the rest. This is a process going on right now, and I think we from the Storting should be careful to think something about this. On this basis, the Labour Party considers that there is no basis for claiming that E18 through Østfold cannot be considered completed until this cross-road action is in place. Finally, as the rapporteur was concerned, this is a matter that is important for the Right with clear funding. Well, this is a matter of disagreement between the Right and the Advance Party on financing. The Progress Party has its own proposal on the matter of full state funding. On the right, the government supports part-financing by means of tolls. As far as clear funding is concerned, it will be exciting to see if one can agree on the civil side on financing this route and 56 other projects over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3478	I do not, as representatives Schou and Kjernli say, welcome home in this matter, but it is an incredibly important road map that has been waiting for many years to be completed through Eastfold, and which it is important to be fully built to Oslo. It is very important because it is one of the major shipping years from Norway to Europe. I fully agree with the representative Schou that it is quite tragic that it has taken 24 years. It's going to take 27 years before you're done with this project that's really pretty short. So I want to say that I think maybe the Dovreban and the E6 Memory Sun are a good example of starting to think differently and do things faster, just like the OPS project from Grimstad to Kristiansand is also a good example of a project where you can do things quickly and well. So I could go into the E18 in Westfold, which is probably an example in a bad way of building road and infrastructure. I think everyone in this room is very familiar with that and where the different parties are standing there. I have to say that it is interesting to listen to the representative Schou who says that she is concerned that there should be a full four-field road here. For the Progress Party, proposals have been made for the full four-field road on the E18 through Eastfold. Unfortunately, the Right voted against and did not support the proposal to secure a full four-field road. Even the representative Schou has said in Eastfold that she is against tolls, must vote against tolls, and is in favour of full government funding. And once again, the representative Schou and the right has the opportunity to do so. If you want to, you can actually vote for full funding of the last two parcels. There is now a proposal here, because the Progress Party is concerned that it is a state responsibility to provide a good and proper road network in Norway. Then you have the opportunity to vote for it if you want. I think it's quite timely to look at the costs of this expansion. The expansion in Eastfold would cost 11 250 million. kr. The tolls were supposed to be 5.8 billion. NOK, and that was 52 pst. Then you could call it a spice layer, which in its time was called all of these so-called wishes for the state and the drivers to stand up for each other. But the reality now is that the drivers have to pay 73 pst. And that means that there's someone else who pays much less than what they were supposed to pay initially. Unfortunately, I feel that this is how this government works, and that is how this government is doing. The billing is largely due to the drivers who will take the bulk of the costs of major infrastructure projects in Norway. For this is important infrastructure, this is a very important project because it is about getting both goods and services into and out of our country and getting quickly to and from. Then I'm going to be a little bit daunted when the first thing you cut when the costs go beyond their limits is the route of administration, i.e. fv. 115. But even worse, and as I think is the worst thing here, when we dealt with the National Transport Plan, there were 85 parking spaces that we were busy getting in place for the next ten years, and that we have to put in place for the next ten years if we are to ensure that professional drivers can follow the law that we have required them to comply with driving and rest periods. But one of the first things you choose to take away is the rest of the space at the Smale Bridge. I think it's quite amazing. I think it is sad that the political majority does not see that rest places are important for those who have the way as their way of life. But obviously it's just that some people think it's okay that the wagon drivers and the professional drivers running around on our road network should not have the same rights and the same conditions as everyone else, and not be able to comply with the law because they haven't arranged that kind of rest. Then I'd like to include our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3495	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3498	Like previous speakers, I would like to stress that the Committee has been flexible, which has allowed us to deal with this matter. The centre party is pleased with any matter that we can decide on in terms of infrastructure development. It's very important. The Oslo–Riksgren route is important for both passenger and business traffic, and not least for traffic in and out of the country. There are a lot of exports – a lot of goods – that come in and out of line E18. Therefore, it is very important that the last two sections of the Eastfold package be realised. The 58 kilometers will be completed in the distances remaining in it. I didn't intend to go up the national transport plan debate again, because we had a long and good debate in which we discussed both funding, more comprehensive development and shorter planning time. We're going to do that. But I register with a little wonder that a number of right-wing representatives have different views at home in their counties and when they enter this hall. I have registered that in my own home state, and I have also registered that from the pulpit here today. That must be on their account. It only creates even more tension and challenge in terms of blue-blue alternatives to the financing of the road sector, where neither self-agreement nor internal agreement is reached. It is demanding, not only for the voters out there, but also for those who have to deal with them as alternatives. I would like to end by congratulating Mr Eastfold, who is now getting the most urgent investment on the Eastfold package, and congratulating us as a nation. Finally, I want to thank the Committee for four exciting years, and wish everyone a really good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3513	It's an important road map we're now discussing. It is Norway’s second most important road link to and from abroad. It is therefore very good that the committee, and also now we in Stortinget, were able to complete this matter before we split up before the summer, despite the fact that it was very late for Stortinget. It is alarming that the route between Winterbro and the national border is set in nine different parcels, and that we have spent so much more money on this expansion than has been necessary. A research program at NTNU shows that on this distance we're probably using between 20 and 30 pst. more than what would have been necessary if we had built this way out in another way, something that has emerged in the media. So it's been 24 years since we made our first decision in the inner east fold on this way. On average, it'll take 9 years to build a road, but here we've spent 24 years so far, and we're going to spend a few more years. But the day we are in 2016 and have completed the entire E18 is important. I want to go over to this which concerns what was included in the original budget, and what was not included. The representative of Kernli addressed this with the route of administration fv. 115 from Vampire. He did not take this up with the parking space from Bru, which is also an important matter in this regard, and which was included in the original budget. When some sections have worked well within the budget framework, we believe that this should have been possible to put in place, so that we got a complete expansion of this route, with the things that should be in place. Then the representative of Gorm Kjernli would like to think that we do not need to talk about the route of administration and funding of fv. 115. But the undersigned believes that we should think something about that, because we have meant something about that in the past. We should also complete this route of administration, so that we get the whole route and the route of administration in place through good funding. That is why we are asking the government to come back to it in the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3524	For the treatment of St.prp. No 26 for 1999-2000, the Stortinge gave its consent to partial toll financing for the deployment of both E6 and E18 in Eastfold. No further progress was made on the development at that time, and the expansion has since been submitted to the Stortinget in several rounds. The E6 in Eastfold was completed as a four-field road in 2008. Until now, we have not had a final final plan for when the E18 in Østfold could be completed. Foreign goods transport via E18 in Ørje is the second largest in the country after E6 in Svinesund, and continued development is therefore important for regional development and for reducing the cost of transport to industry. The government is putting forward a comprehensive approach to the finalisation of the Eastfold Package, including the development and financing of the E18 Riksgren–Örje and E18 Knapstad–Retet. Attention has been paid to local policy support for the financing scheme. The installation start of the remaining parcels will be in 2013 and 2014. The facility will enable E18 in Østfold to be completed in the autumn of 2016. I am very pleased that the committee saw the opportunity to deal with this matter in spite of short deadlines, and I am very pleased with the clear commitment to the government's proposal and proposals that lie in today's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3535	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3539	With regard to the development along Mjösa, we have seen today that one of the contractors has gone bankrupt. It is clear that there are concerns about delays on that route. But what I'm going to ask the Council of State is, are those who are now going to manage the development of the two parcels coming to E18 being examined and checked? As far as I've gained experience, this contractor has a billion-dollar debt behind him on the extension along Mjösa, which has now gone bankrupt. My ringing question is: How does the government check that those who receive this type of tender have the opportunity to stand out?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3546	Indeed, in any call for tenders, the State Road Service will be subject to a number of conditions relating both to the HMS declaration and to the economic conditions of the operators. I have been informed that the State Road Service has also had a review of the various providers in connection with the tenders submitted on the joint project and has not received any information suggesting that they could not submit the tender to Alpine Bau. Otherwise, it is not really the subject of today’s case – but at least that is the information I have so far in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3555	Now my first line was linked to the contractors at E18, so I think that the matter is absolutely relevant. But the next question is that the previous extension, the Sekelstein–Knapstad, was completed 150 million. DKR below the budget. I see that the municipalities in the area are very concerned that this is among other things. should be possible to look at both this with the rest area and the route of administration. Now I see that the Swedish Road Administration is overusing the budget, and the municipalities are getting a bill in jail – something that they would not get with public–private cooperation funding, because then the contractor would have to take that extra cost. What is the Council of State's assessment of the municipalities' expressed wish that money was saved earlier, should have been used for this route of administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3566	One has to say that on the question of the route of administration of fv. 115, there has been a lot of discussion about whether it was part of the Eastfold package or not. We've thought from the state that the rest area is not a natural part of the Eastfold package. However, one chose to include some measures as a contribution to the Eastfold package framework. However, one has come into the situation that, in the case of further actions, there are measures that should be financed through the ordinary framework of the county. But there is a certain degree of disagreement between the county council and the municipalities, and there is a disagreement there that I agree with the representative of Kernli that someone from Stortinget and the government should be careful to think anything about. Otherwise I have to say that it is interesting that the representative Schou believes that with the Right in government this would have been completed much earlier. In fact, the government has been in office for four years — just after the first proposition was adopted in Stortinget. They had every opportunity to adopt this as a predictable project or OPS project. It wasn't done by the Right in the four years they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3575	This is one of several projects that came to Stortinget — to say it carefully. It might have been interesting if the council could explain a little about why it took so much time to get these things to the Storting, and why you had to rush through in fourteen days. Is there something you haven't seen here that can come in retrospect? Or is there any other reason why you've come so late with the Proposition of the Storting? Since the council now stands here, it might be nice to know a little bit about it. Then I want to challenge the Council of State in rest places, because I know that the Council of State has said that she is engaged in providing rest places, so that professional drivers can stop and follow the driving and rest arrangements that they have. They are refused to stand in many places, including: are not allowed to stand at state control stations. And then this is some of the first thing you take away. Does the Council not agree that it would be a bit wrong to remove what is absolutely necessary for those on the road to actually comply with the laws and regulations? Shouldn't you have this rest space when we're about to put this project in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3582	I recognize that this proposition came late for Stortinget. There has been a lot of work to be done, including at the department store, before one could present the matter. We have been clear that we wanted them to be able to get it done. We have not put any undue pressure on them, and I believe they have also had the time they need for it to be qualitatively good enough. But we probably wanted it to come out. I am very happy that it has come out, and I am very glad that the committee also saw its advice to deal with it, for if not we would have risked a further delay of up to half a year throughout the project, and that would have been a shame. In the case of rest spaces, the government's position is that the designated rest area as shown by the examples here is not a natural part of the Eastfold package, and therefore it is not contained. When it comes to rest spaces in general, I'm concerned about it, and I think that you should have good and reasonable rest places, so that you can meet the requirements of the industry for rest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3589	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3594	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on the Rapid Treatment of an Important Matter. There has been a long way to go from the development of the E18 to the adoption today of the finalisation of the Easternfold package, with the extension of the last two parcels of the E18 in Eastfold. I would like to stress that we would like to see a faster progress than the 20-25 years that have passed since the first decision was taken locally. But to talk for the last eight years, where we have had a government with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, we have had a much faster progress and a continuous expansion at Stortinget – together with our local rapporteurs and state politicians as drivers – which means that we are now seeing the end of the construction period. As the rapporteur in Eidsberg from the Right wrote this day on his Facebook page – and I quote: ‘I swung into one of the rigging sites for the E18 construction in Hungary at 22 o’clock last night. Nearly 20 men were at work, here it goes away. Opening after the summer next year. Then Härland, Eidsberg and Inner Eastfold will appear even more attractive." E18 Oslo–Ørje/Riksgrensen and Stockholm is the second most important road link to and from abroad after Oslo–Svinesund. The road is of great regional importance, especially for the inner east, but also for freight and passenger traffic to and from Sweden, Finland, the Baltic region and Russia. About 20 pst. of all international goods transport services to and from Norway on the road are carried on E18 through Eastfold. Today, Østfold's inhabitants and those who travel through Østfold on the E18 are therefore pleased that with this proposition we can look forward in a few years to a finished E18 with good standards all the way from Oslo to the border with Sweden. The proposal sets out an overall plan for the finalisation of the Easternfold package, with the extension and funding of the Riksgrensen-Ørje and Knapstad-Rivet sections, including the remaining financing of actions on existing E18 and cross-roads along the E18 with construction start on the Knapstad-Rivet section during 2013 and the Riksgren-Ørje in 2014. Both routes are expected to be open to traffic in 2016. The right and the representative Schou made a point in the vote that it has taken 20–25 years to build E18 and that the road is still not finished, but that the road, with the Right solutions, had been finished today. I agree that it has taken a long time and that such large-scale projects should be organised, financed and implemented as a whole project, as the government now proposes in the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. But the fact that it has taken a long time is a cross-political responsibility. The representative of Schou and Right had a good opportunity to support the development and start E18 as a OPS project when they were in government eight years ago and the representative of Schou was a minister. That the representative Schou and Right now believes they have better solutions than when they put in government, remains to be seen. There is a lack of Right Trustworthiness here. I have also noticed that the Right now wants existing two-field and three-field sections throughout the E18 Oslo-Ørje/Riksgren to be repaired to four-field road for reasons of traffic growth. I would point out that the right-wing representatives actually voted in favour of the two- and three-field extension that has been made, and that only two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3616	I join those who have expressed their gratitude for the flexibility of the committee and for the consideration of the proposition, even though it has recently come into being. I also think it is striking to hear in this debate and, to some extent, in the debate on the national transport plan how many new ideas and good solutions have come with the Right since they came out of the government offices. It is unlikely that any of these have been brought before, because they are not new, nor are they – showing experiences from other countries – good. But what I really took the floor was that the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud, who spoke in this debate – and as in previous debates – that the State should take the bill. It was made a big number from his side as well when they discussed the matter of mandatory bombing. He thought the state could split it up a little bit with the drivers. The representative Hoksrud speaks as if the state is a rich uncle in America, but the state's money is taxpayers' money. So what Hoksrud asks for is that the drivers – in this case – should split with the taxpayers, but the taxpayers are not just the representative Hoksrud and me and others who have a good salary. It's pensioners who pay taxes, it's unfavourable who pay taxes – it's the state. Then I see that the representative Hoksrud now thinks about the oil fund, but the oil fund is also the people's money. So it's not like you can screen the population. It is possible to discuss the extent of the distribution to be taken over the State budget and the extent of the distribution to be taken into account in the form of tolls — in this case. But what is taken from the state budget is also taken from the population. And that's not a big difference, I think, for people with cars and people without cars. So anyway, the bill ends up on the drivers, it's just a question of which invoice you want to print it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3625	Only three quick things: it is repeated from the opposition that this has taken 20–25 years. Well, the first decision in the Stortningen on the development of E18 and E6 was made 13 years ago. So to the representative Hoksrud, who wondered why it took so long to get the case up to Stortinget. If the representative Hoksrud had read the proposition, he would have seen there that due to uncertainty about the introduction across the county border, which was originally planned, but as the last time we treated the development of the E18, there was no breach of the county border, now however, is above the county border of Akershus. That regulatory plan was adopted by the City Council of Ski, which is the municipality concerned, on 15 May this year. Therefore it took its time before the proposition came to Stortinget. But then to my last point. In the past, we have heard a lot – especially from the Right, but also from the other opposition parties – that we need to control more broadly in terms of transportation. Most recently, the representative of Greece was the one who, in the best time in Dagsrevyen, stood there and said that the Right wants to rule more in general. The spouse of double communication when making a rest area a major political issue in the country's national assembly! It is hardly possible to get there if there is a long way from steering the transport policy at large.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3634	The President has come to realize that there really wasn't any little rest, but we'll probably get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3638	There's the representative Svein Roald Hansen, and that's good. That was very good. When he starts talking about the state's money and the car drivers' money, who's what and how, I'm very aware of what the representative says. But I also think the representative Hansen should notice that the drivers pay 55 billion. kr in 2013. They get about. 18 B.C.E. kr back in 2013 for road purposes. That means there's a surplus here. There's a surplus here that you can use either to build more roads or in other ways. Then the representative says that it is good that the drivers should be involved and pay, because it is the same money – it does not do so much how you spend the money, because it is not so much a difference. Well, there's a significant difference, because when you charge tolls, you have to pay interest on expensive loans to the Municipal Bank or other banks of money that they borrow abroad at a much higher interest rate than what the Norwegian State lends to, for example. Denmark and Germany. In the eight years we've had the red-green government, over ten billion. have been made to collect money for all the toll projects which have been dealt with in this Chamber. It hasn't become money to a single meter way. And in addition, it's going to be over 30 billion. SEK to pay interest to Norwegian and foreign banks, where the bosses can enjoy the big bonus party. We in the Progress Party think it is a bad way to spend both the car drivers' money and other people's money. That's exactly why we say that with all the taxes paid by the drivers to the state through taxes and taxes, this is a state responsibility. Before that, there was a road tax. But I understand that someone thinks it is stupid that the money is earmarked for something, so they chose to change their name to a year's fee, because then they can only be used for anything else. But we know that there is a big difference between the government that rules now and the Progress Party. We think it's stupid that the drivers have to pay over 40 billion. when they do not receive a single metre of road, rail or public transport for that purpose, because there is a poor and expensive way to collect money. Tolls are an expensive and poor way to collect money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3651	Thank you for the debate. I record that someone believes that this is a cross-political responsibility, and wants to get road and rail construction and its like, but also has a responsibility that goes so slowly. I want to remind you that in the last 40 years, there have been people who have had more responsibility than others in 33 of those years. I think that most people are busy getting on the road faster, and have little understanding of a clumsy and expensive development. That's the way it is to have other and new solutions to the things we want on the planning side, on the construction method side and on the financing side. I feel that that is also what people are asking for. Then I also register that the position believes that it is not that long since this was treated in Stortinget, but I dare remember that Stortinget does not live in a vacuum. Political decisions start locally, and this started in 1989. I remember it very well, because it was in my own local government, and it was equivalent to five other municipalities along the E18 that depended on getting an agreement on this. The matter of a forced extension of the E18 started in 1989, and the jam I said forced. Since the majority of the Committee, when considering the last case in the course of development, points out that the completion of the route of administration fv is very unfortunate. 115 from Vampire and the landing area by the bridge, both of which were in the original budget for financing the precisely sub-project Sekelsten-Knapstad, are not included in the government's proposals and the municipalities in the area are constantly pointing it out, I dare remind you that the policy is out there for the exam. We point out that the E18 through Østfold cannot be considered fully completed in this area until these sub-projects have been completed. In addition, the local authority points out that the road is not being completed, because it is already too narrow from the traffic load and the annual traffic that is already there. We see that the previous parcel in this area was 150 million. kr below the budget, and the municipalities in the area naturally express that it would have been desirable for this additional funding to be 90 million. NOK should have been included, because it was originally inside the whole. I believe that a expressed wish that the government would come back with this in the state budget for 2014 would have been this holistic support. The council itself said that there was also some disagreement in understanding whether this was part of the project or not. I want to thank the committee for the work. I would also like to thank you for the work done in the Committee throughout this four-year period. I expect that this is the last case for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3668	With the risk that the representative Hoksrud will need the last minute as well, I just want to say that I believe the calculation he is doing about what is paid for by car use and drivers, and what is used on the road is not quite as simple, although I also agree that there is a surplus that is used for other useful purposes above the state budget. But if I can send with the representative Hoksrud a little recommendation or a little thought that he can think about on vacation until we meet again, it's that he should start talking about the drivers being able to split up with the taxpayers. Then you would be a little bit more precise about what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3675	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3689	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the granting of access to a replacement line of up to three lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3698	This case is about the state's ownership of Cermaq. I just want to start by saying that as late as May 14th this year, the Stortinget dealt with a matter of a state participation in a preferential distribution in Cermaq, and the acquisition of Copeinca, one of the largest fishmeal and fish oil producers in Peru. At the general meeting of the company on 21 May, 62.5 pst voted. for the transaction, which was then also agreed by the Storting. But there was not enough support to implement the financing of the Copeinca transaction. After that time, we have clearly seen that the activity towards Cermaq has increased. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the Stortinget also now perform the necessary rounds of state ownership of the company and handle the powers that the government now requests. In this way, this matter has been reviewed very quickly in the Committee, and I also thank the Committee for a thorough examination of the matter in the short time available. We already knew when we dealt with the previous case on 14 May that there was great interest in the company, including through the activity that Marine Harvest had shown to the company. In retrospect, we have registered, not least through the media, that even now there are several interested parties. We are also aware that there is now a specific offer on Cermaq ASA from Marine Harvest, but both Cermaq ASA's board of directors and the Ministry of Industry and Trade believe that the offer does not reflect the real values of the company. What is thus in progress is a never-ending race about the company's values. We got as late as today in a press release that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is now initiating a process for the possible purchase of shares in Cermaq ASA, assuming that the Stortinge gives the necessary powers this evening. The important thing is to ensure and maintain the values of the company in a good way for both the state and other shareholders. In this sense, it is absolutely necessary for the State to exercise active ownership in the light of the current situation. An authorisation, as requested by the Government today by the Storting, considers that the majority of the Committee is necessary to manage the values in a good way and at the same time provide the State with sufficient tools to deal with the situation that has arisen. It is therefore important for the Storting to give an authorisation for the State to purchase shares in Cermaq ASA up to a holding of 65 p.m. and for the State to sell all of its shares at the same time. An extension of the sales authorisation will ensure that the State may also choose to allow Cermaq ASA to be merged with another operator, with the freedom to choose an appropriate settlement form. It is important to ensure that the values of Cermaq ASA are kept in the best possible way. The majority certainly believe that the authority they have set up to provide to the government is the right way to deal with the situation. Now I suppose the minority will explain their positions in an excellent way in relation to the matter, but I would like to stress that what is now, we should say, the Cermaq ASA race, testifies well that the space for action and the ability to exercise an active ownership might be limited by the proposal the minority chooses to vote for tonight. I'm actually a little surprised because the marine sector is an important strategic area for Norway, and in the years to come the farming industry can become part of a significant growth. The majority are therefore concerned – and I stress this – with the further assessments and strategic dispositions of a possible transaction, in fact assessing the possibilities of strategic ownership where head office functions, research and strategic functions have a main base in Norway – yes, with some state ownership in relation to it. I would like to strongly recommend the Stortinget to vote in favour of the suspension in its entirety as it exists, so that the State can be ensured through its ownership a sufficient space of action that can in turn contribute to a good industrial solution for the company and a fair price for the shares, possibly in Cermaq ASA. I would also like to believe that this is the last case of the Business Committee in Stortinget and would therefore like to thank both for the cooperation and everyone for a really good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3719	In a short time, the Stortinget now deals with two issues relating to the state’s ownership of Cermaq ASA. First case, Prop. 119 S for 2012–2013, was addressed in May. In the context of the treatment of the 2013 State Budget, the Stortinget government authorised the government to reduce ownership of Cermaq ASA down to 34 pst. by dilution as part of an industrial solution. State holding in the company per Today is 43.5 pst. For the treatment of Prop. 119 S for 2012–2013 the government did not ask for any authorisation to buy up in Cermaq ASA. I Prop. 178 S for 2012–2013, currently under consideration, the government asks for such an authorisation to purchase up to 65 pst. Cermaq ASA is in the government ownership message defined as a Category 1 company, i.e. a company with commercial objectives. It is provided by Meld. St. 13 for 2010–2011 on active ownership, as follows: ‘The objective of the country’s ownership of Cermaq ASA is to contribute to the development of an important environment for farming, feed and research on feed in Norway and internationally. The State is aware that the company is a significant player in the further development of the Norwegian farming industry. The company shall be operated on a commercial basis.’;» In examining the ownership notification, the Progress Party proposed to authorise the sale of the shares of Cermaq ASA. If the government has other intentions with the ownership of Cermaq ASA than the purely commercial one, the Progress Party wonders that the government parties have not transferred the company to one of the other categories of ownership, such as: category 2, companies with commercial objectives and national anchoring of their head office, or category 3, companies with commercial objectives and other specifically defined purposes. The Progress Party will stress that it is the management board of the company that is responsible for the interests of the company and that it will be up to the State as a shareholder to attend to its interests through the general meeting. The interests of the company and the interests of its owners must not necessarily coincide, but it helps. The Progress Party believes that using 2 billion. kr of taxpayers' money to buy up in the company at 65 p.m., appears as a project with a significant risk. The Progress Party would stress that although the marine sector is an important strategic area for Norway, it does not mean that it must be a field of State business. The progress party also believes it is very positive that there is now an interest from private investors to purchase the State’s shares in Cermaq ASA. The progress party has long wanted to facilitate the sale of the State’s shares in Cermaq ASA if it would prove that it was interested. The forwarding party will also agree to split up the company and sell out parts of the business, if this could lead to a better industrial solution and a market favourable price. In the case of feed production through the EMS, the Progress Party is of the opinion that it is important to ensure continued Norwegian control of this part of the company, in order to maintain head office functions and research and development in Norway. The availability of fish feed may be the main challenge for the farming industry in the coming years. In this context, it is important to ensure the proper functioning of competition in this market, so that not some major players become too dominant. I would like to inform you that the Progress Party does not support the vote I and II, but supports the vote's III.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3746	A unanimous increase today gives the government a sales authorisation to sell out of Cermaq ASA, the same authority that the Right has proposed on several previous occasions. Now the situation is something different than before. In the past, we have considered, in principle, that the State as a significant owner of Cermaq ASA with competitive surfaces against many wholly-owned private companies has a double role in the simultaneous administration, concession and supervisory functions. Our connection to the sale mandate this time is still based on the primary view that the double role is unfortunate, and we see that the situation can now be conducive to the government reducing or terminating its involvement. But we also see, of course, that sales can now contribute to an industrial solution in which Norwegian jobs are secured, developed and given an even better future. Such opportunities also exist and are already one of the elements in the game of the company currently operating through the Marine Harvest bid, a game in which the opposition has only limited transparency — and should have nothing more than that — and therefore not a background enough to form a qualified image of what is right to do. As we write in our notes, it's not impossible to make a purchase of 65 pst. can provide the company with flexibility for solutions, but we are strongly in doubt whether it is appropriate to use over 2 billion. kr of taxpayers' money for a project that is definitely presenting with a significant risk, especially when you do not know what one owns, with a purchase of 65 pst, except to be flexible. There will then be considerable uncertainty as to whether you can get out of the company again if you want to, and not least at what price. This is a cyclical industry, market prices fluctuate, trading conditions fluctuate, competition varies greatly, product quality, disease, environmental problems are some of the things we know from this area. We have no basis or information through the proposition that weakens these kind of considerations. And from the same point of view, i.e. the outside position, the development that is now coming, with new bids on parts of the company, seems to indicate that there may be a possibility that after a purchase, or after a sale, one can stand with 65 pst. in a Cermaq without the substantial part of the feed business, and then there is a company with a predominantly part of its activity abroad and a relatively modest share in Norwegian activity with Norwegian jobs. It gives, as we assess it today, without the knowledge that others have, an additional risk that the values you buy as a fully integrated company will not be realized when the sales object is a more amputated company. Indeed, both in the proposition and in the red-green notes, they have committed themselves to contributing to a good industrial solution, while at the same time obtaining a fair price, and not least to carrying out a transaction at the expense of shareholders, where the state's ownership can again be reduced. It's a long race with a lot of risk factors. We don't know how this is going to happen, but as I said, we are in considerable doubt that this very soluble sketch can be fulfilled. I would also like to stress that good industrial policy and good state ownership are not always just maximizing value, as stated often by the Council of State, at least in newspaper interviews, but also industrial solutions that take care of and secure Norwegian jobs. It's a recurring theme in the exercise of state ownership, and we don't have to go so far back in the red-green business history until we find examples of Norwegian employment considerations playing a far greater role than taking into account the values of the state or maximising them at all times. So this seems to be to a significant extent situational, and for those who don't know the situation, it's hard to go out on this race. That's why we're voting against the authority to buy up. It also has to do with what the representative of Aasland hangs at the end of his speech, that he is wondering about the opposition, which limits the possibility of participating in the race. That's right, we limit the possibilities of participating in a race when we only know where it starts, but not where it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3765	I would like to thank the case manager for a good review of the case, and I will not redraw the whole picture presented by him. This case is subject to authority of the government to make the purchase and sale of Cermaq ASA. From the time before, the government has the power to reduce its ownership to 34 pst. Now the government is asking for extended powers both for sale and for purchase. It has an interest in the company recently, both for the whole company and for parts of the company. There is now a need to arrive at good industrial solutions. As the previous speaker referred to, we are concerned to arrive at good industrial solutions, as well as to secure the values of the company. There is not necessarily any contradiction between good industrial solutions and ensuring the values of the company. It is important that the State, as a large owner, has room for action to facilitate a good development of the company. The State shall be an active owner, as added in the State Ownership Notice. In the paper on an active state ownership, Cermaq ASA is placed in the category of financial investment. At the same time, a joint committee in the configuration of the Stortinget points out that the marine sector is an important strategic area for Norway. It can be done, among other things: from the maritime food message, which has recently been dealt with here in the Chamber. With sustainable management of seafood and farming, farming can generate significant growth in the future, which means that the strategic importance of the industry will at least not be diminished in time to come. The Committee points out that, in the case of any transaction, the government assesses the potential for strategic ownership where head office functions, research and strategic functions are based in Norway. There are things that you have to include in the further process of managing ownership. In this case, the government is given increased powers to have greater scope for action to ensure the values of the company and to ensure an industrially good ownership and continuation of the company. However, the mandates are not required for implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3782	Cermaq is one of the world's leading aquaculture companies, where the state owns 43,54 pst. The State’s objective with the ownership of Cermaq is described in the ownership notification: ‘The objective of the country’s ownership of Cermaq ASA is to contribute to the development of an important environment for farming, feed and research on feed in Norway and internationally. The State is aware that the company is a significant player in the further development of the Norwegian farming industry. The company shall be operated on a commercial basis.’;» I also want to add, as more representatives have said, that this is an important strategic industry for Norway, and we have just adopted the maritime food communication here in Stortinget. There is now a bid for Cermaq from Marine Harvest, which has offered all the shares outstanding in Cermaq. In a press release on 10 June 2013, Cermaq’s board recommends its owners to reject the offer and asks shareholders to wait for possible alternative solutions. Marine Harvest has been trying to control the feed and rearing company Cermaq for the past few weeks. On the basis of this, the government has promoted a proposition for the Storting on the power to purchase up to a maximum of 65 pst. holding in Cermaq in order to ensure full control, but also authorisation to sell the entire country's holding. This is aimed at safeguarding the interests of the State and contributing to an industrial solution. The Central Party is committed to the active pursuit of its interests by the State and the offensive meeting of the Marine Harvest. The centre party believes that, in such situations, it is important to show the power of action and to have room for action to deal with different situations that may arise. A merger of companies with farming concessions could be the consequence of the situation that has now arisen. It has therefore been important for the Centre Party that the government initiates parallel efforts to contribute to the greater benefit of the values of the farming industry to coastal communities and to provide measures that can contribute to ownership diversity in the industry. For the Central Party, the latter is very important. For the Centre Party, it is a clear objective to contribute to the greater benefit of coastal communities in the farming industry and to contribute to the further development of small and medium-sized operators in the industry. We have to be able to do this in parallel. From this point of view, the Centre Party supports the proposals contained in the proposed proposal. Like other speakers here, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its cooperation and to wish everyone a really good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3809	Developments in this matter since the start of the examination of Prop. 119 S in the middle of April, says more than words about the significant values in the company Cermaq ASA. The struggle for market shares for farmed salmon and fish feed in the world market is tough and intense. It also carries the battle of Cermaq clearly off. Cermaq ASA is a company that the government of the ownership notice has placed in category 1 of government-owned companies. In this way, the government is acting in full line with the business judgements made in relation to state ownership in this category. The ownership message opens both for strategic purchase and full sale of the country's category 1 shareholdings. For us in the Christian People's Party, however, this case has more aspects of it than purely commercial ones. We record that the State can collect a fine gain on its investments in Cermaq ASA by a proper course of action when it sells in full. We also see that a purchase up to 65 pst. participation may be necessary to control the game of the company. Nevertheless, as we evaluated it as late as April this year, there are other considerations that weigh more heavily in assessing the appropriateness of a full sale in Cermaq ASA. In the ownership notification, the government provides some overall reasons for state ownership as a principle in the Norwegian mixed economy. One of these reasons is particularly important for the Christian People's Party: there is the possibility of raising expectations about social responsibility to companies in which the state has interests. Such expectations of social responsibility will not be equally relevant to all companies with State ownership or to all transactions in which the State changes its ownership portfolio. Cermaq ASA is a company that has located the majority of its business activities outside its borders and the majority of its employees are not resident in Norway. Through the EMU business area, Cermaq has a global market share of 36 pst. in fish feed, and through the Mainstream business area a global market share of approximately 6 pst. within the rearing of salmon and trout. This means that the management of Cermaq ASA is related to daily important ethical and practical considerations as regards the treatment of workers ashore with other labour law conditions, the management of scarce fish resources such as raw material for fish feed and significant environmental challenges related to fish farming. We therefore consider that this is a matter in which the state's ability to raise expectations of social responsibility is particularly important from the company's business area. On page 56 of the Communication of Ownership, government expectations on social responsibility include: specified in the following points: ‘The Government expects that: Companies with international activities are linked to the United Nations Global Compact and that companies with international supply chains consider the same. [[...]] [[...]] International companies or international supply chains are at the heart of the eight core conventions of the ILO.’» The continued state ownership of Cermaq ASA will thus allow for the accumulation and government to make clear expectations of the company on social responsibility in these areas in the future. In the event of a full sale of the country's holding, that possibility will lapse. During the current period, the Christian People's Party has repeatedly highlighted the major environmental challenges associated with Norwegian farming. The Christian People's Party has also called for government investment in different companies operating in the international market to be based more strongly on ethical assessments of the company's business operations. In this context, we have noticed that Cermaq ASA places great emphasis on the full and sound reporting of employment for its own employees, the sustainability and enforcement of national and international laws and regulations. It believes that the Christian People's Party is very positive, and in line with the expectations of social responsibility placed by the state as a partner in the company. We believe that the continued state ownership of one of the world's largest fish farms and the production of fish feed in itself can be justified by the possibility of raising expectations of the company on social responsibility and ethically sound business. We would also like to remind you that the Stortinget has voted against the full sale of the state's shares in Cermaq ASA on two occasions during the current growing period. This happened for the first time when the Storting dealt with the ownership notification on 9 June 2011 and again during the treatment of the Storting on a proposed share issue in the company on 14 May of this year. It says that the majority of Stortinget is skeptical about allowing the free games of market forces to determine who will dominate and possibly control the farming industry. This applies both here to the country and to the international. The Christian People's Party will give its support to I and II in the vote. But we're going to vote against III, with the reasons I've given here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3861	Let me first thank the case rapporteur and the committee for a thorough and timely examination of the matter. The State shall be a professional owner. This means, among other things: the ability and willingness of the State to act quickly when necessary to safeguard the values of the State, and I very much appreciate the efforts made by the members of the Committee to ensure the necessary flexibility for the State over a hectic period. On 6 June, Marine Harvest made a voluntary offer to all outstanding shares in Cermaq with settlement in shares and cash. In the view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the bid does not reflect the values of Cermaq. The exchange notification of 13 June shows that neither the board of Cermaq recommends the shareholders to accept Marine Harvest’s offer. The board has informed that they are working on alternative transactions to make the values the board considers to be in the company. In the exchange notification dated 17 June, the company informed that they had received offers for the purchase of the feed company EOS for 6.2 billion. kr. The same exchange notification states that Cermaq has informed the stakeholders, the investment companies Altor and Bain Capital, that their offer to purchase EMUS to a total company value of 6,2 billion. kr is considered so interesting that Cermaq will initiate a process with the aim of concluding a final agreement. In order to ensure the best value for the State and other shareholders in a situation where the company is in play and a number of possible solutions can be found, action spaces are needed for the State that owns Cermaq. Therefore, through the proposal currently under consideration, it is requested that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade be authorised to purchase shares in Cermaq up to a maximum holding of 65 pst. and an authorisation to sell all the State's shares as part of an industrial solution. By the possibility to secure a holding of up to 65 pst. of the shares, the State will be able to actively contribute to good solutions for the Cermaq shareholders. As stated in the proposition, the purchase authorisation will be used only if it is valued as value-creating and with the ambition to realise the item in a later industrial situation. Similarly, in the case of the sales authorisation requested, it will be used if it leads to a good solution for the State and for other shareholders. An extension of the current sales authorisation down to 34 pst. will enable the State to contribute better to the merger of Cermaq with another actor, with the freedom to choose the appropriate form of settlement. If Cermaq is to be part of a new company, it may be relevant with continued strategic State ownership. I note that the members of the Committee from the Advance Party and the Right believe that giving the government a purchase authorisation appears as a project with significant risk. My answer to that is that the risk of not obtaining such an authorisation can be greater. It's not that doing nothing is risk-free. Being the owner also means responsibility. We're at risk of losing influence on what solution is going to be the outcome of the process. In today's situation, it is important that the State can strengthen its ownership position if necessary, and I appreciate the fact that the majority of the Committee supports the government's responsibility. According to the Ministry’s assessment, the risk is moderate in the country’s potential acquisition of Cermaq. We consider that it will be possible to realise a share item at satisfactory prices and exchange rates if desired. The government believes it is right and important to secure the state's operating space in a situation where Cermaq is in play. I therefore ask that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade should be given the necessary powers, as requested in the submitted proposal, and I am pleased that the majority has agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3878	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3882	For the treatment of Prop. 178 S asked the government for permission to purchase up to 65 pst. in Cermaq ASA. I note that in the proposition reference is made to the sales authorisation that was granted in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2007–08, but one has obviously not been given the power to sell that the government itself requested and that was granted in connection with the treatment of Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013. In company law matters, there is a minority veto, or so-called negative control, at 34 pst. You have a simple majority at 51 pst. And you have a majority and you can block minority Veto at 67 pst. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State respond to why someone chooses to ask for permission to buy up to exactly 65 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3889	As the representative himself points out, in some cases more than one third of ownership may be in a blocking situation. This applies not only to the country, but also to other owners. By the state getting up to 65 pst. We assume that, for all practical purposes, it will guarantee us more than two thirds of the majority and thus full freedom of action if we wish. That is the background to this mandate. As I said in my post: not having such a power and freedom of action do we believe that there is at least as great a risk as having such an authority. If I can add: I have a little difficulty understanding it when the Progress Party says that we should ensure a Norwegian anchoring of the EMU and at the same time insist that we sell. It is difficult to imagine that we would sell at a lower price to a Norwegian owner than to another owner. This would be contrary to the mandate we have to respect the ownership of Cermaq and the ECOS.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3896	There are two concepts that the Minister of Industry has used in recent days in this matter. One is ‘to maximize the values’. He uses it most in the newspapers. The second is ‘good industrial solutions’. To maximize values, the right really knows what's going on, so I'm not going to ask you that much. But what is the ‘good industrial solution’ in this matter for the Minister of Industry? What content does it have — seen in relation to what he sees as a good and active industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3905	It's a little bit dependent on the solution that's going to be the result. If the state sells completely out of Cermaq and realizes all the values in the company, it is clear that we have an obligation to try to get the best price for the company. That will be a very important assumption. All responsible owners — perhaps in particular the State — should contribute to the continuation of the employment, value creation and societal significance of the company after any sale, merger or alternative solution. So we're also assuming that we're going to contribute to that. Considerations may also be given to the synergies inherent in any partner. It'll also be a factor that we'll evaluate. The powers we are now asking for give us full freedom of action to choose throughout this spectrum of alternatives. If we don't get the power to buy up, which the Right won't give us, we limit the ability to realize these values.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3916	In a letter to the Ministry dated 17 June this year, the head of the Norwegian Maritime Association’s National Association, among others, writes: the following: ‘The forthcoming suspension of the Norwegian farm ownership restriction – so far no company has been able to own more than a quarter of the concessions – will increase the risk of large parts of the Norwegian farming industry being at risk. In addition, if the country chooses to sell its strategically important ownership position in the world’s third largest breeding company to the leading global giant – directed from Cyprus and London – it will be a strong signal to the rest of the Norwegian farming industry to do the same. For why should all the other farmers along the coast fold up their sleeves and ensure management and value creation, if the state – the richest of us all – were to be tempted to fly out and let Marine Harvest take over, as the largest remaining competitor. If the Government opts for a deflagration strategy for Norwegian aquaculture, Norway will become even more a clean area of production, and its economic and societal impact will be significantly reduced for our country.’ What is the State Council's comment on the quoted extract from the letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3926	The first thing I want to say is that there is no conclusion to the table on how this process ends. Those who advance that there will be a Marine Harvest fusion, I think I'll have some ice in my stomach and wait for the process to go. That being said, Cermaq is a large and valuable company, but the proportion of Norwegian farming industry is relatively small – about 4.5 pst. So a merger between Mainstream, which is the breeding part, and other companies, won't be a very big contributor to a consolidation. The size has dealt with these issues very recently, and there is a need to address the structural framework for the farming industry. We don't do that through ownership. It will manage the values, jobs and value creation of the company we own. I also record that the three opposition parties have three different positions. There's going to be exciting discussions, if there's going to be a civil majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e3937	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 18-27 is treated as a whole. All cases relate to the second processing of legal acts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4044	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4050	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4058	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposals No. 8-19, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1-19 is included in the vote, and proposals Nos. 20 and 21 are distributed in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-one from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to file a case on student housing as its own regulatory purpose.» The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4089	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to review the regulations of the Planning and Building Act as soon as possible, with a view to facilitating the rental of a part of the owner-occupied dwelling and increasing the local action space in connection with the approval of such rental units.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4106	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a priority for indoor climate as a field of activity for Building21.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate the relationship between the registration of lung cancer deaths by the Cancer Registry and exposure to radon and the importance of new build densities for the exposure of radonous gases.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all those at risk for radon problems are offered radon measurement.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on simplifying and reducing tools in the construction industry with a view to laying the foundations for a well-functioning market without unnecessary state supervision and intervention.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take immediate action to reduce the use of objections.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative proposals to enable individuals to make proposals for regional regulation.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government requests the winding-up of the independent control system, which was put in place on 1 January 2013.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government requests the removal of universal design requirements for dwellings below 55 m2.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the plans to introduce passive housing requirements from 2015.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the energy efficiency requirements related to TEK7 and TEK10 so that the minimum energy efficiency requirements are TEK97.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the legislation currently governing the regulation of land and housing with a view to making the legislation less comprehensive, simpler and less bureaucratic.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider proposing to repeal § 12-4 of the Planning and Building Act, which states, inter alia: ‘If construction measures are planned to be taken on the basis of private regulatory proposals under § 12-11, not initiated five years after the decision of the plan, the authorisation for the implementation of the plan cannot be granted without a new plan decision.’ [[5]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4183	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a change in the Planning and Building Act § 5-4 that objections are limited to those where ‘the relevant State and regional bodies may promote objections to proposals for the area and regulatory plan of the Municipal Plan on matters of national or substantial regional importance’ and where the wording ‘or, for other reasons, essential to the subject matter of the body concerned’ is deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4198	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 to 5 and 7, from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals for revision of the Planning and Building Act, as well as provisions of the Building Technical Regulation [[TEK10]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up clear guidelines on how to promote objections, so that the number of objections can be reduced.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a change in the time-limits, as stated. § 12-4 of the Planning and Building Act so that it lapses.» [[legal effects of plans]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the Planning and Building Act with a view to simplification in order to ensure better progress in planning processes.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the construction of at least 2000 student housing per year and to lift the cost framework.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4239	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the Youth Housing Saving Scheme by increasing the amount that can be saved from 150 000 to 300000, raising the rate of deduction from 20 to 28 p.m., and raising the annual savings ceiling to 25 000.’ [[BSU]] The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4272	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3 by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposal No. 4 and 5 by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 6, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is included in the vote, and proposal No. 6 is distributed in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to review and propose a reduction in the total number of laws, regulations and reporting requirements, etc. regulating the municipal sector and local democracy.’» The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4306	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government of the State budget for 2014 to propose an increase in the revenues of municipalities of 2.5 billion. SEK in addition to what the government signals in the Municipal Proposition for 2014 and that these funds are mainly earmarked as operational funds for care of the elderly, primary schools, interaction reform and drugs and psychiatry.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with an overview of the actual need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation of municipal and county infrastructure, and to promote the necessary proposals for a rapprochement plan that facilitates the conditions for the necessary upgrading.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4328	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that 4.25 pst. by corporation tax is retained by the municipalities where the values are created.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the time of counting of new residents in the municipalities of growth so that these municipalities receive financial resources according to the actual number of inhabitants.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4352	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the digitisation of public services and to ensure a functioning national strategy for ICT solutions that strengthens the ability of municipalities to provide services to their citizens’.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4373	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4390	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that foreign citizens employed in the public sector have adequate knowledge of Norwegian language so that they are able to communicate in a safe manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by non-resident employees in public enterprises to achieve a satisfactory level of knowledge in Norwegian.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4550	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives towards the Scandinavian, or Nordic, countries for the establishment of a common country information in the foreign administration.’ The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposal from the Left has been submitted after the deadline set in Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy for submission of proposals for which a statement of objections is required. However, the President will propose that the proposal be put to the vote. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4581	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Öyvind Korsberg, Member of the Presidency, proposal No. 2, from President Akhtar Chaudhry First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from Akhtar Chaudhry. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Presidency to investigate how the Stortinget can best ensure independent competence in the handling of legislative proposals.’ The voting boards showed that 81 votes were cast against and 19 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 19.59.19]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4602	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4607	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4612	There were probably several people who voted incorrectly, so then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4624	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the member of the Presidency Øyvind Korsberg. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Presidency to set up a selection to investigate how the Grand Duchy can best strengthen its own ability to follow up legal work and ensure access to independent and competent assessment of legislative proposals, including whether legislative proposals may be contrary to the Constitution, the legal system, the legal certainty of citizens and human rights.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4647	The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left will vote against this. The voting boards showed that 63 votes were cast for and 36 votes against the presidential election. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.00.51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4656	There are several people here who voted incorrectly. There is a great deal of misappropriation today. Don't the representatives want to go home tonight? The President proposes that we resume voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e4837	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from President Akhtar Chaudhry Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘An increase in annual average compensation for grossing-up representatives, prime ministers and government councils in 2013 is set at SEK 17,582, corresponding to approximately an annual average add-on for full-time positions in Norway. In accordance with this, the Storting agrees to establish the following remunerations with effect from 1 May 2013: Storting representativeskr820 940per. yearMembers of the Government1 161 437per. yearMinistry of State1 422 399per. years’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The development of remuneration of grossing-up representatives, state councils and prime minister is determined on the basis of an increase in the annual crown amount of an average salary in Norway.’ An alternative is to vote between these proposals and the decision of the presidency. The Presidency had cancelled: The majority agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2013: UKL 836 579p. yearMembers of the Government1 195 072p. yearMinistry of State1 469 831per. years
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5094	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. The proposals have been distributed in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 10 from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the charging system to stimulate a healthier diet, including by removing VAT on fruit and vegetables.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the distribution of gambling funds can be more widely used to activate low-activity in all ages’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5124	There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to increase the grants for open-air actions in the context of the State budget for 2014.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5143	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 6 from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better framework conditions for non-governmental organisations and social entrepreneurs providing health and welfare services or organising public health promotion activities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the alcohol charging system to distort consumption from strong to weaker alcoholic beverages.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5167	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Two, four, five. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a national escalation for health centres over four years’ time.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the school health service, as well as the health services of student partnerships.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the education of health sisters.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5196	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to put in place a probationary system with a permanent psychologist in the municipalities.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5215	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the VAT compensation scheme for wide-ranging sports facilities.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5234	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess how outdoor life can be given greater priority in order to meet the public health policy objectives of the State and the sport policy objectives of ‘sports and physical activity for all’.’ The President, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the parties have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5265	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the State budget for 2014 to ensure that Special Olympics Norway receives stable and predictable funding.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5293	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan to improve patient safety in general and to vulnerable patient groups in particular. The hospitals, the State Health Authority and patient and user organisations should be invited to participate in the design of such a concrete action plan.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5321	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case that strengthens the rights of relatives following serious adverse health-care incidents.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure adequate motivation in the health sector to learn from their own mistakes and those of others, thereby reducing unfortunate events.’ The left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5382	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the finalisation of the Eastfold Package and was the extension of the E18 on the routes Riksgren – Örje and Knapstad – Retvet is built as mentioned in Prop. 176 S [[2012-2013]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5435	I and II will be voted on. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5450	We're voting on option III. The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5467	In the case of cases No. 18–27, are the second time dealing with legal acts and are subject to legal acts 103–112. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-20.ana.ud2501e5481	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will be allowed to express his thanks. It's the last time I'm presiding today – and ‘ever’, I think. Thank you very much for me. It's been a great joy. [[Applause from the Chamber]] Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
