ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e268	Honourable co-representatives! Former poacher and poacher President Jo Benkow is dead, 88 years old. With his passing away, an important voice in the social debate is silent. Benkow was a liberal and clear politician, who will not least be remembered for his commitment to tolerance, and against discrimination and prejudice. Benkow was born in Trondheim and grew up in Bærum. In 1942, the male members of the family fled to Sweden, where Benkow graduated in 1943. After that, officers were trained and assigned to the Air Force in Canada and the United Kingdom. After the war, Benkow completed his photographic education and established his own business. He quickly became involved in local politics – first as chairman of Østfold Young Right and later as a member of the local government and the chairmanship of Bærum. In 1965 he was elected as a permanent representative at Stortinget from Akershus. This was the start of a 28-year growth career, culminating in eight years as the Grand President from 1985 to 1993. With his background, he helped to expand the knowledge of the Big One and to strengthen the representativeness of the Big One. At Stortinget, Benkow was primarily a social politician. He was a hot defender of the welfare state. A spokesman for tolerance, understanding and respect for differences. In the role of President-in-Office Benkow contributed to strengthening the role and reputation of the Stortinge. He represented Stortinget in a worthy and good way. The big business traditions, custom and use, and improving the working conditions of representatives and employees, were important to Benkow. In the time at Stortinget he also held central positions as chairman of the Right, Parliamentary Head and Chairman of the Judicial Committee. Transatlantic, European and Nordic cooperation was central to Benkow. He marked himself as a Nordic, and was for a time president of the Nordic Council. With the book «From the Synagogue to the Lion's Hill» Jo Benkow's dramatic life story became an all-man's life story. It gave strength and authority to his struggle against intolerance and prejudice. He was – as it has been said – a ‘moral compass for and in Norwegian society’. We remember Jo Benkow for his work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e320	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Geir-Ketil Hansen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 to 6 is treated as a whole. – they are deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e395	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will inform you that, when this is dealt with in a profit-making manner, there will be more than one case rapporteur, and it must be emphasised that the opportunity for the President to have the floor more than twice, of course, is linked to the matter for which he is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e408	As the rapporteur for the Social Security Communication, the Terrorism Alert Communication and the three other issues we are now dealing with at the same time, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good and effective cooperation. Where the possibility of consensus has been within reach, we have managed to bring the Committee together. There has also been good dialogue with the two parties that are not in the Committee, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In particular, the state of social security is characterised by broad consensus on most issues. That's good. No one has committed to political games but has contributed to the widest possible agreed national basis for social security work. Our task, as a magnificence and government, is to lay the foundations for an even safer Norway, with all of that involved, and I believe that we do that together. At the same time, we decide today to allocate nearly 90 million. extra to the police's response to terrorism. In the position of preparedness for terrorism, an overall committee is committed to the objectives of the government’s strategy to prevent and deal with terrorism, a strategy that will also contribute to strengthening efforts in the fight against related, serious crime. The objectives are: preventing radicalisation and violent extremism to cooperate internationally on the prevention and combating of terrorism to avert and detect acts of terrorism before they take place to protect society and to make it well equipped against terrorist attacks to deal with terrorist attacks in the best possible way – whether it would happen to us in some way or not. The Committee stresses that the implementation of these objectives – and the related actions – must respect our democratic values, the principles of the rule of law, privacy and the security of citizens and nations in a balanced manner. The Committee points out that the July 22 Commission was clear in its report, one of the main conclusions being: Too much went wrong — and important parts of the authorities’ preparedness and capacity for crisis management were not good enough. The Committee recognises the Commission's report as a sound basis for decision-making actions to improve social security. With a few very few exceptions, a Joint Committee joins in the various measures taken by the Government for: preventing past and improved international cooperation to detect and avert terrorism in order to strengthen protection, in particular of critical infrastructure and societal critical functions, so as to reduce vulnerability to an acceptable level; The Committee further adheres to the many measures described in the Communication in order to enhance the ability to deal with terrorist attacks, including: by strengthening military helicopter preparedness, which may, upon request, provide assistance to the police. We also want the aid instructions to be anchored in law, as the government is working on. I would also like to mention the importance of new emergency networks – also in the light of good terrorist preparedness. A Joint Committee concludes on the follow-up and action of the main findings of the 22 July Commission on management, attitudes and culture. We are very concerned that new, useful and efficient technologies should be put into practice, not least to have the most effective police force possible. The Committee appears to have contributed several interesting input and ideas to the Technology Council during its hearing. The Council has an ongoing project, security and transparency after 22 July, which provides knowledge that should be useful in the work of the Police Directorate on a comprehensive ICT strategy. That's about. 700,000 hearing impaired in Norway. The Committee stresses the importance that hearing impaired and deaf people can communicate in direct contact with emergency situations, using SMS, as soon as this is possible, as the Council of State has clearly indicated that it will take care of them – by the end of 2015. I would also like to mention that the majority of the Committee supports the government's approach to new arms law. The Progress Party stands alone with its proposal that the government refrain from restricting today’s weapons legislation. We are all keenly concerned that it must be a top priority to set up a response centre in Oslo for the national police response capacities. This requires that the regulatory plan be clear during 2014 so that the Centre can be established by 1 January 2018. At the same time, it is also important that basic police preparedness throughout the country be increased, as the government proposes, through the deployment of police emergency services in the districts, increased training for the police to deal with ‘shooting is underway’ episodes, and the establishment of minimum staff for all police operating centres. Furthermore, as an important contribution to identifying, averting and ensuring good prevention and preparedness throughout Norway, it is important that police districts have a staff of PSTs that are satisfactory in order to do a good job. A single committee considers this to be a point of reference. This, too, needs to be focused when the overall use of resources by the police is put under scrutiny. In the context of both major messages, the Committee also draws attention to the major and demanding information security challenges we face. When most of our society is so dependent on ICT, we naturally also become more vulnerable – to attacks and crime. That vulnerability can and must be reduced. The Committee stresses the importance of education and research in this field. All the good forces must go together, and do so, through the establishment of a national centre at the Gjøvik High School, also highlighted by the special committee here on the Stortinget. The Centre shall conduct research and development of competences in the field of information security, with national and international partners. The Committee considers this to be an important establishment. Norway has been hit by a number of serious incidents in recent years and social security work is a very broad field. It also bears the impression - a setting in which we have otherwise captured many good input from the committee hearing. We have made good advice and views – through the suspension – into national policies. There is a broad consensus on most of what is needed to prevent and manage natural events, major accidents and intentional incidents – such as terrorism. The Social Security Communication introduces the interoperability principle as the new and fourth principle in social security and preparedness work, as well as equality, responsibility and proximity. The Committee supports this. At the same time, the Committee is committed to ensuring that good cooperation also requires clear management in order to optimise the functioning of the various actors individually and collectively. The central crisis management has been strengthened and the role of the Ministry of Justice and Security in coordination and leadership has been strengthened and clarified. The Social Security Communication describes many measures that have been taken, in particular in the light of the experience of 22 July 2011 – and time does not allow me to go into this detail here and now. I would therefore like to briefly describe some of the points that the Committee has raised and pointed out, which we believe contribute to new steps in the right direction. Overall, there is considerable resources in Norwegian society in the form of personnel and equipment, and we are getting better when these resources are seen in the context. Cooperation between emergency situations, police, health, fire and rescue shall be further developed – and it is said to be in good cooperation with the voluntary rescue and rescue organisations. The rescue service in Norway is unique and volunteers constitute a carrier. They represent an impressive spirit of effort, capacity and competence that the Committee believes is very important to maintain and contribute to further development — yes, to renew energy. To this end, the Committee shall enhance the position and capacity of these voluntary organisations. There is a clear signal to the municipalities and emergency authorities about the importance of good cooperation, through agreements, common procedures and cooperation with this important part of Freedom Norway. Then the results are also the best when it comes to it. They also have a role to play in making local analyses and plans – they have useful knowledge and experience. These organisations have 20,000 active members. I think it's great that KS is now signaling increased attention to social security and preparedness. Let it also include even better partnerships with volunteers in this field. That's my call. I hope that the involvement of the KS will help several municipalities to start freeing employees with pay to participate in rescue operations and emergency efforts. We understand that practical problems can sometimes arise in the workplace, and that it is not always easy – yet it is of great value to have employees with such skills and willingness to intervene. That call is also addressed to private employers, of course. These relevant organisations, Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid, the voluntary part of the Rescue Company and Norwegian Rescue Dogs – the four who will have to cover all their expenses related to their arrival on emergency networks – are totally dependent on stable and predictable framework conditions in order to do their job and be prepared 24 hours a day. We must then ensure that they have such framework conditions, and that is clearly stated by the Committee. Otherwise, we support the establishment of major intercommunal fire and rescue companies to strengthen the ability to deal with increasingly demanding tasks, to strengthen prevention, the supervisory function, competence and impact. Today, these companies cover about 1.5 million of the country's inhabitants. I guess we're actually saying -- a little bit interpreted from here -- that we want more of these companies. We are also concerned about increasing the focus on fire and rescue skills, and we are particularly pointing to this in the more than 8 000 part-time teams. Fire and rescue services must be good in all parts of the country — urban and rural. The Committee points out that the intentions of the part-time reform must be followed up. The Committee also unanimously supports the continuation of civil protection, while stressing that it must be given the necessary resources. The water level is still high in many places. The social security attitude refers to the flood of the year. Our main message is that the emergency need to be lifted – yes, get what I will call increased authority in all relevant planning. Current plans need to be reviewed where necessary, and there should be a low threshold to consider critically the plan. Furthermore, we say – and it is important to note – that if major flood damage has first occurred, the Committee will emphasise that it is a national objective to include the prevention and mitigation of floods in the recovery of the damage. For many municipalities, risk and vulnerability analyses and contingency plans do not exist. It's actually a crime. At the same time, so it is also said that many municipalities are good at this. So here – as usual – it can pay off with a little bit of good neighbourly cooperation. And once again, it's nice that KS now focuses more on preparedness. I see that time does not allow further comments on the representative proposals. So with respect for the use of time – I guess I’ve got a little extra time too – I’ll get back to it a little later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e505	The security and preparedness sector has been an important focus in recent years. The Progress Party believes that this has been necessary, and it is therefore good that we have now received a preparedness message and a social security message that, not least, explains to a large extent the current situation. The Committee and the rapporteur have done a considerable and thorough job on these issues this spring. Although the batches largely agree on the situation description, there are some dividing lines in the attitude regarding concrete solutions and the willingness to address these challenges. The Gjørv Commission gave Norwegian ready-to-use hard-to-reach access. The main conclusion was that too much went wrong, and that important parts of government preparedness and crisis management were not good enough. The Commission focuses on key challenges that need to be addressed. The reports that the Committee on Legal Affairs is now under consideration are a start to this work, but it should not surprise anyone that at least the Progress Party believes that we are at a very close point in our goal yet. We are far away, among other things. the cross-policy objective of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants — the first line in our preparedness. Half of Norwegian police officers are not yet cleared for sharp missions. We don't have an emergency room in place, and the helicopter service is defective, to mention something. In this debate we will deal with several issues such as: can see criminal law and preparedness in the context. This is a positive and a good picture of the importance of seeing the whole thing in the field of justice. That is why I am pleased that coordination is also brought forward as a new precautionary principle, and that the whole Committee agrees on the importance of this, even though the differences between the various parties are also evident in how to resolve it. Where non-socialist parties wish to involve SMK more closely in preparedness cooperation, government parties wish to establish coordination in the current ministerial structure. I am nevertheless pleased that all the parties represented agree that cooperation between the sectors is an absolute necessity for better preparedness. I must stress the importance that all parties see the need to follow up this knowledge with action. You have to make a decision sooner or later. We must not get into, or continue, a situation where the investigation impedes development. When talking about interaction, it is, therefore, very regrettable that today the Storting is not allowed to take the debate on the organisation, structure and system of the police, but must wait a few days before the police analysis is presented by a sample — an analysis that may provide a position to be dealt with piece by piece and divided into future government budgets. I believe that this analysis should certainly have been in place in this process, because the first line readiness and the structure there are crucial for the rest of the preparedness and interaction. If I'm going to practice some criticism of the government constellation, it's that even though all parties agree on the problem description, unfortunately not everyone is willing to act. The Progress Party is surprised that the preparedness message is so little concrete. There is a review of many issues that have not been addressed, draft legislation that has not yet been drafted, and issues that remain to be assessed by the government. In my view, this goes beyond the pace and the ability to make decisions. The Progress Party lacks clear signals both on how to clarify responsibilities and on how to implement them in practice. I did not expect 22 months after 22 July 2011 that there would be no more concrete measures from the government. I would also like to remind you that Norway does not exist in a vacuum. Over the last 40 years, we've seen a development in which people become increasingly mobile, and the world is getting smaller and smaller. This has preparedness perspectives and puts security services to the test. We also have challenges with Norwegian citizens who go abroad to war, or radicalize, for example, in Syria or Afghanistan. These are new threats to Norway’s security, which it is important not to take too lightly. Both the PST and the message underline that the greatest terrorist threats come from people with an Al Qaida-based worldview. This challenge needs to be taken seriously. We have to see the whole thing. The progress party is therefore critical to, among other things, border control is not allocated to any greater space in the message. The possibility of potential terrorists crossing borders is alarming. The Progress Party therefore believes that border controls should be reinforced and that border controls play an essential role in stopping bombers and other dangerous objects before entering the Reich. The fact that the tariff rate is not more closely linked to the contingency plans is worrying. The Progress Party has long been concerned about the framework conditions of the PST. I myself spoke to the Nettavisen on July 9th, 2010: ‘Today, the size of the incident does not receive more information about the terrorist threat than the police security service writes in its open threat assessment. This makes it impossible to ensure that the government takes the challenges seriously, and it is impossible to know whether the PST has enough resources in relation to the real threat picture.’ That situation exists exactly the same today, and if I'm allowed to say the same thing, as most people, I'm usually right, but in this case I really wish I was wrong. The size should have been so absolutely informed of the financial priorities of the PST at a much earlier date. There is something the Progress Party has been demanding since 2010, and it is not without reason that we have been concerned. The PST, Lasse Roen, Chief Trustee, announced the following to TV 2 last summer: ‘I see that we have too many tasks compared to resources. We think there is a gap between the expectations around us and what we can deliver." I'm totally in line with the union. When PST's budget prioritization was published on the spring party this year, I was hardly the only one who got an aha experience: $91 million. Where PST is used annually for the purpose of counter-terrorism. This represents only 17 pst. by the PST budget, and one third by Sweden for the same purpose. The Progress Party has therefore strongly criticised the government's budgetary management for the PST in the communication, and we are surprised that it is not immediately re-prioritised to counter-terrorism. Even if we have to get a boost in terms of the preparedness for terrorism, it's important that we don't set our feet for blacksmiths. I think we should hit criminal environments hard, but have two thoughts in our head at the same time. In my view, limiting the rights of innocent and law-abiding citizens is not the right way to go. With regard to one of today's proposals, unfortunately, the Progress Party is alone. Norway has a high stockpile density, with approximately 1.2 million registered weapons. But I would also like to remind you that Norway is nevertheless very low on the international killing statistics. It is not possible to equate the level of legal arms access with the level of counter-terrorism. I just want to quote NJFF, Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federation, which stated in the consultation round: "The claim of the 22nd July Commission that semi-automatic weapons have little to do with Norwegian hunting tradition, we do not recognise." This proposal will only affect people who have a good and good deal of guns in hunting and other sporting activities. The police’s ability to respond quickly is crucial in a crisis situation. Seconds can often be crucial, and the ability of response personnel to fast transport, irrespective of traffic and other obstacles, can be the difference between life and death. Of course, I'm talking about the police helicopter situation. The Committee and I believe that it is good for the government to do something, including: by placing a military helicopter on Bardufoss at the disposal of the police. This isn't far enough. First, there will still be no police helicopter capacity in the South, in the West, in the Trondelag, in the interior or in Finnmark. Secondly, the helicopter on Bardufoss is not a fully-fledged police helicopter either. The consequences of this are stated correctly on page 87 of the message: ‘However, it is necessary to calculate periods during which the helicopters are disengaged in order to carry out higher priority military missions, as well as necessary training and training.’;» For the Progress Party, it is important that the preparedness is complete throughout the country. We have therefore put forward a proposal to investigate emergency centres in all parts of the country, with full helicopter preparedness. The report from the Police Analysis Committee will be received in six days. I have to say that I am currently positive about the leakages that signal a severe reduction in the number of police districts. In the future, it will become increasingly important to look at organisation and new solutions in the context of preparedness. It is therefore positive that an overall committee supports the desire for better Nordic cooperation on counter-terrorism and preparedness for crisis. The Progress Party will nevertheless underline the importance of anchoring the so-called Enforcement Instructions – international instructions – so as to make Nordic emergency aid easier to put in place in a crisis situation. ICT security is becoming increasingly important in today's society. Although the Committee is united in understanding the problem, the Progress Party and the Right have wanted to criticise the lack of sufficient room for information security in the preparedness communication. Nor does the government’s strategy have an overall vision of information security or a pronounced end result. We see that several countries have probably already used hacking as an instrument in large-scale attacks against other countries. We must assume this will only increase as a problem in the future. In the context of terrorism, both countries, individuals and terrorist groups pose challenges — with an enormous potential to harm critical infrastructure through cyberattacks. The opposition therefore wanted to focus more on this issue from the government. Penalties are an integral part of the state's power apparatus. It is important to ensure that measures are implemented here too. We have seen in previous election campaigns, in particular in 2009, that this government in the media has still given the impression that new criminal orders were in place. Today this is still deficient. The whole process almost bears witness to chaos and little implementation by the government. This is at the forefront, if you look at the Gjørv Commission report in 2012, where it is stated that the police have no ICT strategy. Eight years after the adoption of the new penal code, the situation is that the amendment of the law is not ready until early 2017. The latest estimate suggests an incredible cost of 2.4 billion. kr. The government will not even start work on the new ICT system until 2015, as they are waiting for KS2 approval from the Ministry of Finance. It has been claimed that new computer systems must be put in place by the police before the new law can come into force. This is not sustainable. The government has had eight years to follow up a decision on the rise — the main judicial policy reform of over 100 years. As I know, the government has not even started working on the new computer systems, which are claimed to be necessary for implementation. The current situation is irresponsible. There is a need for immediate action. That is why the Progress Party and the Right have put forward proposals in this direction. We are still looking at major challenges with natural disasters and floods around the municipality of Norway. The case rapporteur was in on this. It is important here that we focus more broadly, so that emergency plans are anchored in all municipalities, and that there is coordination that is sustainable in meeting the future challenges in this area. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which the Group of the European People's Party is advocating, and the proposals that we are making on our own initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e562	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e565	What can we do to make Norway an even safer country? This issue is behind us when we are now discussing today’s and the future’s threat picture – and its consequences. Both the July 22 Commission and the Hearing Officers demonstrated that there was a major failure in preparedness and in the security of the population on 22 July 2011. In the right, it is highly critical that the government had not sufficiently implemented measures that enabled society and the state to protect its citizens. For this reason, the Right had clear expectations that, in particular, the notification of terrorist preparedness would be a crystal clear strategy and a good tool for better security. The right is therefore surprised and disappointed that the staging message is so little concrete. There is a review of many issues that have not been addressed, draft legislation that has not yet been drafted, and issues that remain to be assessed. However, it has been important for the Right to facilitate a policy that will bring together the Biggest on a key direction that will increase social security and better preparedness for terrorism. For the Right, the main profile has been particularly focused on making visible and clarifying responsibilities – also at the very top. We have focused on police and defence cooperation. And in particular, we have raised the need for increased security in the cyber domain – in the opinion of the Right, probably the area where the threat scene evolves most in a threatening direction. I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has arranged for an inclusive process in the Committee's examination of these matters. In the opinion of the Right, it is high time to review the traditional civil-military sector distinction. The historical justification for this distinction is important to remember, but today’s threat picture needs to be met with a greater degree of coordinated efforts by the country’s security agencies. In today’s threat assessments, there is no longer a crystal-clear distinction between national and international threats. This is why the right has several times proposed the creation of a separate law that can provide a predictable and effective way for a good interaction between police and defence – within the framework of the Constitution. These proposals have been voted down, but we note with satisfaction that the government has announced that it will still produce such a law. A large and growing part of the social structure is based on digital data and computer systems. It makes society more efficient, and it facilitates business development and good services. But at the same time it makes us more vulnerable. It is therefore important to strengthen information security. The right is surprised that this isn't dedicated to greater space in the matters we're discussing here today. Cyberdomain is an area where the traditional civil-military distinction between national and international is almost meaningless. The cyber domain is boundless. Therefore, the right considers that responsibility for information security should be brought together in one department. We had in this field expected offensive measures and a forward-looking discussion, but we did not. On the right, support the establishment of a Emergency Response Centre where part of the police special areas of expertise are co-located. But we are concerned about the government's approach. It is an impression that the site is first determined and then adapted to the operation of the emergency centre according to the appropriateness of the site. So when we can also read about uncertainty about progress and costs, we are in favour of a proposal to get on the table here in Stortinget a review. In addition, the right notes that several places in the country are very committed to pooling preparedness resources, establishing areas of practice and strengthening environments of competence. I mention Rygge, Bodø, Stavanger, Buskerud and Akershus. This is positive, and the Right expects all recordings to be carefully evaluated by the Ministry of Justice. Finally, I would like to stress that with this treatment, we have facilitated a safer society. At the same time, we have to remember that we never get a risk-free society, but we can always work for a risk reduction. The vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 6, from the Progress Party, in the setting of the Terror Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e595	July 22, 2011 was a day we could say was a day before and after. Social security was put on the agenda with a weight we might not have wanted, but it turned out that we have to take social security seriously. Our responsibility now is to prevent terror in our society, and here the seriousness must first sink into us. My claim will be that it's about to do it thoroughly. Our responsibility now is to lead the country and ensure that preparedness is improved from top to bottom. Here the government, the Stortinget, the Police Directorate, the special agencies, the individual police officer and woman, and not least the association of police officers, must be involved in taking responsibility together. It's together we can make this society safe. We have to make each other better. That's how we can prevent and investigate terror and give the country the security we need. Unfortunately, there are major weaknesses in the system, from top to bottom. We have to recognize that, that's how we can move on. I have to say that the government has taken its part in the responsibility and is doing its part of the job. The size does – among others. Today, with this debate – its part of the job. We've updated the law. The government and the Stortinge have jointly allocated extra funds to the police. The focus on the management of the police and the emergency seat has been increased. The concrete measures, such as: the establishment of an emergency centre and the establishment of helicopter standby is under way and the focus on preparedness is much higher today than before. Today is the time to look forward. We have to see how we can prevent, that's where the main gravity should lie, I think. I'll come back to it in a few seconds. We must prevent crime as terrorism; we must improve the police, both in terms of resources and training; give them good framework conditions in the law; strengthen the special bodies, in particular the PST, within the democratic framework, as a democratic society like ours should work, and not least – as the case-rapporteur was in it – involve the voluntary Norway in it. As I mentioned, there are two things I think are important, which I want to highlight here. When it comes to the problem, there are people who are behind and who have been behind acts of terrorism both in our country and in other countries. By and large, we can prevent this from growing up. This involves providing good framework conditions for children and young people, drawing them into positive activities and contacting them, for example: the individual youth or parents, if the police were to find that there is a tendency for young people to get on the slope. The second thing I want to point out is having a good, close and trusting relationship and cooperation with the countries where we know that some of our young people are leaving to get inspiration and training in both terror and violence. We need to prevent this. It is an international problem, and then it must be prevented at international level. I have addressed it several times in the past, and I am absolutely sure that there is a need to strengthen this cooperation with relevant countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e610	Norway can often shine like a peaceful little spot in an otherwise brutal world. While wars rage in other countries, and tornadoes take everything in their path, we'd like to think that we're lucky to be living here. That's absolutely right. We're lucky, because we usually have good reason to feel safe. In order for our citizens to be truly safe, however, as politicians, we need to think about everything that can happen in the worst cases. We must use both time and effort to discuss and work with preparedness and security. We've done a lot of that in the last couple of years. I don't have a statistical basis to confirm this, but I think the scope of preparedness must have been more used in politics and the media's value in the last few years than in the previous ten. Terrorist attacks on 22 July 2011 and Hurricane Dagmar in Rome in the same year made us differently more aware of the need for our society to be better predicated on the emergence of different types of crises. The two major messages on social security and the preparedness for terrorism that we are discussing today provide a solid basis for us to be better foresaw both the foreseeable and the unmistakable future. It is about ensuring that those responsible for security and preparedness at different levels and at different levels have the knowledge and ability to make the job the best possible, and to interact across sectors. Voluntary rescue and preparedness actors are a great resource, and we need to facilitate their contribution to good interaction with the other actors. In this context, I would like to point out that the voluntary rescue organisations will be included in the emergency network. It is important and right that we now allow money to cover the costs of using the emergency network. It is the individual's effort in sum that determines how good preparedness is in our society. With this, I would say that strategies and plans only get their value if they fit into reality and show up as relevant to those who are going to follow them. Plans must work both during prevention and when the crisis is a fact, and actors and individuals must have the ability and the will to follow them. At the same time, operators must be able to be flexible and out-of-directional if situations arise that require it. I mean the two payment messages we are dealing with today, replying to this. I can take a few examples from the terror message, where this is mentioned: Police expression units in the districts need to be strengthened, and the crew needs to be increased. Police shall have more training to handle ‘shooting in progress’ situations. All operation centres shall have a minimum crew. A mass recall system shall be established for police personnel. Police patrol cars are provided with new tablets with direct access to the ICT system of the police and, as said, voluntary rescue organisations are to be included as users of the emergency network. The counties and municipalities are important actors in the field of social security and preparedness. In addition to the planning of central authorities, the planning work in the municipalities is also open to decision-making for good preparedness. This has been emphasised by both the government and the committee. Both the government and the committee clearly point to the need for good leadership. No matter how much money we allow, both economic and human resources must be spent in the best possible way. The potential of modern ICT solutions must be exploited in a good and forward-looking way. The ability to transfer digital information from the public to the emergency services in critical situations, if used, will mean real progress. Good information system cannot be underestimated. I will not outline any more good objectives and actions now, but refer to the comments of the Committee and the introductory statement to the case-speaker Hagebaken, where he was given many important moments. But I would like to underline the benefit of not having too much distance between the inhabitants and the emergency and rescue teams in a vast and diverse country – with great distances. Work on prevention of maintenance of closeness and knowledge. The structure of the police and the Home Office is an example of this, and we in the Center Party are going to be in charge of the local police and the Home Office too. Finally, as many people have done and will also do, I want to boast of the work of the case-speaker Hagebakken. He has ensured a good and results-oriented process in the Committee. It is important in such a case, and it has also contributed well to all the other parties. The goal is – as I was at the beginning – to ensure that the inhabitants are safe. In the future, it will be up to a number of different sizes and governments to ensure that their programming messages are followed up and that what is not yet concrete is done. Preparedness is an eternal process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e642	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his good work. For me who is not in the committee, we have been included and allowed to make recordings and have been listened to. It has been appreciated, and it also shows some of the good treatment that Stortinget has had in this kind of case. This is also not a point in the preparedness work, it is a follow-up to important issues that have been dealt with earlier in Stortinget, and issues that will have to be further worked on in the next period. The Christian People's Party has been allowed to work closely with the other two major issues, even if we have not been on the committee. We have had both Becquerading Violence and Hareide as case rapporteurs in two different treatments of similar matters, and we have put a lot of the leaders there. When I cannot refer to comments in this case, I can at least refer them to the leadership we have put in the other two matters. What I notice is that the vast majority of the population has had in those matters, and is left in this matter. The Christian People's Party has had several themes on which we have been particularly concerned in the work on strengthening preparedness: preventing crime and violent radicalisation and extremism, that we are well equipped to prevent terrorist attacks, that the police's ability to solve sharp missions is strengthened and also a strengthening of the police in general. We need to have better interaction between the police and the defence, good communication in emergency situations, ensuring that the preparedness is so good that if an emergency occurs, it is handled well. Then we have to ensure competence in the municipalities – after all, all events take place in a municipality. I would quote our party leader, who was also the head of the special committee. He said in the debate in Stortinget at the time: ‘The shots that were fired at the Utjah, told us that the axis of evil is not a place far away, but inside the human mind. What happened has happened before. It can happen again, unfortunately, but it's our job to prevent it from happening. Preparedness is important, but prevention and retention must never be underestimated.’ I will not continue my contribution with family policy, but at least it could be tempting to point out that the attitude-creating and prevention work must start early. It's important that the value distribution in school, that the school should be a place that not only educates, but also forms the human being. Today's threats to society are many and complex. After 22 July, there has been massive criticism of lack of leadership and also interaction around security. That is why we have proposed the establishment of a National Security Council directly attached to the Prime Minister. Terrorist attacks, major accidents and disasters, or computer attacks against vital social interests, are some examples of events facing society that have the potential to hit many with brutality. This is why we have wanted better coordination between different authorities – in sectors such as foreign affairs, defence, justice, health, oil and energy, telecommunications and transport – so that they can sit together and find coherent and coherent solutions. We have also been concerned about and are pleased that a decision has been made to set up an emergency centre, even if there is some uncertainty about the suitability and funding of land, and also when it is to be put in place. That is why we support proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement and the Right in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox I look at the time when I might as well go into what proposals we support: in addition, we also support proposal No. 6, on weapons, on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox We want to lift up the volunteer preparedness and rescue service that is an important part of the preparedness. Without volunteers, we would have been unprepared in many areas, but there is good in the Committee's comments. I just want to point out that the volunteers carry out tasks that the public should do in this way, and therefore it is very important for the Christian People's Party that there are good support schemes for them. I should also have liked to talk about police preparedness, but there we are excited about the police analysis and the work that will come forward this year. We get good opportunities to discuss it later. In Case No. 2 we will support proposal No. 1 and No 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. We are now also dealing with proposals related to ICT and the entry into force of the 2005 Criminal Code. It's critical, as we see it, that it hasn't happened. That is why we also support proposal No. 1 and No 2. by the Contracting Party and the Right in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e669	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for an inclusive process, including for those of us who are outside the committee. It almost reminds me of the good old days of minority government, where one was busy getting to broad settlements. We have greatly appreciated the fact that we have been included on advice all the way. I would like to make a few comments about the setting. The lesson of the good evaluation after the cruel day of July 22 taught us that it wasn't so much about resources, not about laws, but it's about dealing with the new security threat by coordinating us better and being more competent to use the resources and laws we have. It's always like this in history that the threats you think you're facing have turned out to be completely different. Although terror has been found as a means of exerting power or getting things through for thousands of years, the new security threat to Norway has become completely different from what we learned at school in the 1980s. Just as World War I became a different war from what you thought it would be, and the Second World War was concluded in a different way from what you thought, we see that the security threat to the North today is not what large armies on large surfaces can gather to perform, but it is about a creeping security threat that suddenly affects the civilian population, and that hits in places where we almost don't have the imagination to imagine it could hit. Leadership was underlined as one of the main actions that should be taken to coordinate the resources and the action spaces that we have. I would like to stress that culture has to be set from above if you're to exercise good management. I have twice – once in the hearing after the July 22 report and once in the Question Time here – asked if the Prime Minister could define it to decide against leading. He has rejected that both times as a problem. I think that's the core itself. There are a lot of politicians who are busy deciding, but it's not always you're concerned with the slightly heavier job, which is about leading. I want to use a small example of a question I asked the Minister of Justice this week, which is really a little bit of a stuff, but that says something about setting a culture. I reserve the right presentation, but in the VG, we were presented to the police chief's instructions on how the police were to speak in the media. I see the instructions as little like understanding of the lessons that the July 22 Commission gave us, about openness and putting a culture that allows us to say from all over the system. Then I got a reply that it was the police director who decided. That's probably true, but as a leader, you have to set culture – the culture you want to lead within – and then you have to have an understanding of the system you're part of. Then you also have to set the culture of openness, to be able to say from, and all the grips that we learned after July 22 were important. It is then important, as the Committee notes, that it is not only important to train and practice, but also that management participates fully at the top level when training and practicing – that the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister are involved in taking lessons, but also in setting a culture for these to be important measures. I think one of the maybe most important steps we have to take to prevent radicalism in all environments, is just openness. It's about a PST that works well, and that reaches exactly those they're going to take. I'd rather have a state that uses harpoon when it's going to take the big fish, than one that uses snorpenot. We have a lot of measures now to use the snorkel penot, where you need to collect all the information you need to see if you can take the big fish. Finally, I would like to point out that I believe we should have an arms law that undermines neither Norwegian hunting culture nor anyone who uses the Arms Act actively. I'll come back to what we'll vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e692	In the Terrorist Preparedness Communication, the Government sets out both new measures and the work already under way to improve preparedness, and we put them into an overall strategy against terrorism. I am pleased that there is broad political consensus, both on how the strategy is put up and on the measures. I have always experienced cooperation with the Stortinget to improve preparedness as very constructive, both with the Special Committee, the Control Committee and the Constitutional Committee and now with the Justice Committee. In the Communication on Social Security, the government introduced the principle of interoperability as a fourth guiding principle for preparedness in Norway. It is also the interoperability principle based on the strategy: we need to have the most out of society's overall response capacities, so that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. This is a good social economy. What, then, does the cooperative principle mean in practice? The local police will usually come first to an incident and form our basic preparedness. That's why we're increasing the number of police officers participating in local emergency services, from today's 800 to 1,200 in the current year and next year. And we're increasing the amount of training for, let's call it, regular police — the largest group in the police force with weapons approval — by eight hours a year, earmarked to deal with ‘shooting in progress’ situations. However, when dealing with a crisis or a terrorist attack, we need structures in place to ensure that personnel with sufficient resources can strengthen local efforts and reach most of the population in Norway within a reasonable time. The government has prepared guidelines for the rescue helicopters standing on six bases around the country to be able to transport police in time-critical operations. And we've arranged for the police to attract exchange of defence resources when a crisis strikes. Both at Rygge and Bardufoss, military helicopters are ready to transport police forces. At Rygge, military forces can also assist the police in resolving counter-terrorism tasks — so-called enforcement assistance. The government wants to draw the cooperation between police and defence anymore. Therefore, the Marine Hunters' Command from 1 August will also be prepared to assist the police in counter-terrorist missions. From the outset, the Special Command of the Defense is ready to assist the police. So, in order for cooperation to work well when a crisis occurs, good practice is needed. That is why the police and the defense have trained on interaction during three major exercises after July 22nd. Experience with operational cooperation during these exercises is positive. During the exercise of Gemini last month, police director Odd Reidar Hoplegård said to the NRK that cooperation between police and defence is better than ever. Norwegian counter-terrorism preparedness has not been better than it is now. The cooperative principle will only work well in practice if someone has looked at and sees the whole of the preparedness process. For this reason, the Government has given the Ministry of Justice and Defence a clearer responsibility to coordinate work on social security and preparedness in the departments and underlying agencies. I would remind you that the 22nd July Commission recommended that it be clear where responsibility for preparedness lies. Since there are ‘close links between police tasks and the general security and preparedness of society’, responsibility should lie with the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Soon two years have passed since July 22nd. The message summarises all actions undertaken and all new resources involved in the preparedness process. In sum, it's very much. If someone with police preparedness or other agencies goes into the media and says that nothing has improved, do we, as politicians, have to ask some critical questions: Do you, for example, take work to address the cultural challenges raised by the July 22 Commission in a sufficiently serious way? Time is getting closer to turning the issue around: we have to expect a better preparedness. We have to expect that people with responsibility for emergency care are the task of adulthood. We have to expect that we will get value for the money that is granted. In a short time, I'll receive a police analysis. It will give us answers to a number of questions: Are resources used correctly? Is the police organized in a manner consistent with the crime scene? Do we have professional environments that are strong enough? The police analysis will provide politicians with a solid professional basis for taking the long-term decisions on choice for the police. It will also provide a comprehensive overview of the use of resources by the police in relation to ICT. As the Commission also points out on 22 July, ‘the potential of information and communication technologies has not been sufficiently exploited’ in the police. [[...]] The government has advocated the renewal of police ICT systems in criminal matters. The renewal is carried out in the so-called Value Added Programme. It is divided into several quality assurance projects separately. It gives politicians good control of the process. At the same time, the Police Directorate is given the opportunity to build the necessary skills throughout the entire department, so that all employees are prepared to take up the new solutions when they get in place. However, the Value Added Tax Programme must not become a sleeper cushion. This will not solve all the ICT challenges in the police. For example, we have a police force where every police district and special body has its own pay and staff system. This is the picture of a major challenge: the police have lacked an overall plan; the approach to ICT has been fragmented and divided. One has not been able to raise the best practice and make it the standard for the whole police. The police director has done a good job of setting up a separate department for ICT in the Directorate. But we need more radical changes on the ICT side of the police. To avert terrorist acts before they get a chance to take place, we need a police security service that is well equipped to carry out its community mission. The PST increased its financial envelope from 434 million. SEK in 2011 to nearly 525 million. In 2012, much of the increase went to counter-terrorism. The budget has been increased by a further 41.6 million. kr in year. The PST has had a huge impact on its input into budgetary processes. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party claim that ‘only 91 million are used. crowns for combating terrorism’ in the PST. Of course, this is not right. Expenditure from several other items in the budget — e.g. to investigate, investigate and analyse, including counter-terrorism. In reality, PST spends much more on counter-terrorism than the 91 million. kr to which reference is made. Also in the case of PST, we have to make sure that the money is used correctly. Therefore, the government reduced the Traavik Committee which conducted an external assessment of the PST last year. We are now working to follow up the recommendations of the sample, in particular with regard to how the PST can make better use of its resources, make good priorities and plan to acquire the right competences for the future. With the message of preparedness for terrorism, we have taken a big step. But we can never lean back and say that we're in the goal. We must always reach out for the best possible preparedness in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e723	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e726	I thank the Council of State for a good report, but there are still some challenges that remain. The Council of State itself stated that, hopefully, the police analysis will come in six days. We've been waiting for that for a couple-three years, maybe. So there are different reasons why it hasn't come until now, we have to accept that. I will nevertheless challenge the Council of State. When we deal with the preparedness message, social security message and other issues related to preparedness today, my question is: Do we today get an overall target of preparedness and security in Norway when we do not get an insight into the police analysis, and what, if any, the structure of the first line should look like? What will the future structure of the police look like? I believe this is the most important of all in a good and forward-looking preparedness. How, then, will the police analysis be dealt with afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e733	Today, we are putting forward an overall strategy for strengthening our response to terrorism. I am very pleased and pleased with the collaboration with Stortinget on this strategy. The support and support for the strategy provided by Stortinget, I believe, is also important for further improvement of preparedness. The majority will also have a good opportunity to discuss the structure of the police. I am sure that the Police Analysis Committee will provide us with a very good professional basis for taking that discussion on structure. The committee was reduced last autumn and has worked very fast, but solid. Once analysed, it will be sent to the hearing and will therefore form the basis for a later notification to the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e740	I am not in doubt that the sample will provide an attitude that presents challenges and that contains a high level of competence in terms of future preparedness and structure. I do not ask any questions about that at all. Based on the leaks that have occurred, if you say so, it seems that the Progress Party can be satisfied with the structural part, which we have been working for for three years. But to take it a little further: in terms of police analysis and selection, there's a big question, because the organization of the Police Directorate is deficient in the message we're dealing with now. POD was critically criticised in the recent evaluation report from diffi. I don't know if I'm drawing it too far when I ask the Council of State to possibly signal whether the police analysis committee also includes an insight into the role and structure of the POD.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e747	I think the analysis will provide us with a very good basis for how the police resources are used today. They have also been challenged to think about how to organise the police in the future, but then within today's budgetary framework. It is up to us politicians to assess whether the police need more resources, and of course whether it affects the structural proposals that the sample makes. After what I hear, we will also get an insight into the role of the Police Directorate – as the representative calls it – and views on how the Norwegian police are to be managed in the future, including the role of the Police Directorate, and how the management of the police can both be strengthened and simplified.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e752	The most important thing about the police analysis is that we get more police officers who do fewer tasks better. We're talking a lot more about preparedness now than before July 22, but at the same time they're not talking about what good preparedness is, and not least what it really costs. This is why there is now a great deal of concern about, for example: the progress of the new emergency centre and the future operational position of the police helicopter. I intend to ask two specific questions about some of the concrete measures that are being said are in place. Can the Council of State guarantee that a new Emergency Response Centre will be in place in 2018, in line with the operational recommendations given to the Council of State, that it will not shrink? Question 2: Can the Council of States also guarantee that this summer we have a police helicopter that is fully operational on the same lines as the rest of the country, and say a little about the lease agreement with England, and about how she sees it to be extended after 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e759	I can guarantee that I work every day to ensure that the Emergency Response Centre is realized by the target date. Work is now being done both to clarify the content of the Emergency Response Centre and to provide a good basis for government regulation that ensures rapid implementation. As far as question two is concerned, downtime is reported every week for the police helicopter. I can enjoy the representative saying that now the police helicopter is almost operational every hour, every single minute throughout the day. We get reports of downtime, as said, ongoing and also assess future use of the police helicopter in the light of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e766	My question was really linked to the Emergency Response Centre. I think perhaps the Council of State could have been a little more specific, because I think the answer shows why the opposition proposal today on emergency services is actually a good and important proposal. But I'd rather challenge the government councils on ICT, more modern technology and the new opportunities that lie there. The Technology Council had many input into the treatment in the Committee on Everything from drones to how to use smartphones and other possible technological aids to improve knowledge at an early stage about what is happening at the scene — to better link it up, so that you can use it to carry out even better operations. I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit about what she thinks about new technologies and new methods that can be used, and what plans and ambitions she has to integrate this into emergency and police work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e773	We're going to be far better at using ICT and modern technology than we've been to date. The July 22 Commission went into this thoroughly and unfortunately there's a lot of investment in technology, but you haven't been able to use the potential of this in a good enough way. We have to make sure that technology helps officials in their daily work. There we have made a small but very effective investment in these so-called tablets. But we have to move on. We are renewing ICT infrastructure in these days, and of course we are going to have a new criminal justice system in place. In parallel, we need to build skills in the department to make sure that we get back for the investments we make. In this area, we also need to improve the fight against cybercrime and focus on ICT security. Much has been said about this in the messages submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e780	The Council of State is a polite lady, and I saw that she listened very carefully when I spoke. So I want to ask, does she have any thoughts about what I said about management, openness and putting culture from above?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e787	This takes me a lot, because it's about leadership in the police. We have to realize that once we have equipped the police director with 35 direct rapporteurs, in addition to his own leadership group, thoughts about leadership are important to communicate, and it is also becoming very demanding. I reward the police director for thinking about how police leadership can communicate as seamlessly as possible, intelligible and yet open. I see the framework that the police director laid in this perspective, and I am absolutely sure that how we should ensure better leadership in the police, the ability and the ability to lead will be an important task for us to discuss here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e795	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e798	Today's debate and settings have a dark backdrop. On 22 July 2011, Norway was hit by the worst acts of terrorism since the war. 77 people lost their lives, many more were injured, and the material damage was enormous. Even though it is nearly two years since the terrible thing happened, it is missed after the dead still large. Many of those affected are still suffering physical and mental damage. We feel with the survivors, the survivors and the relatives. The July 22 Commission described in detail the failure: the failure to implement already adopted security measures, the lack of implementation of terrorist and emergency plans, poor communication and management, slowing police exit to Utøya. The Commission wrote that the problems were not primarily the lack of resources, legislation or organisation, but cultures, attitudes to preparedness and the ability to interact. At the same time, it is necessary to recall that much of the rescue operation on 22 July has received legal recognition. The fire and rescue services, the ambulance services, hospitals and health professionals made a formidable, life-saving effort in the government quarter and Utøya. Many volunteers contributed to lifesaving and rescue in the government quarter and Utøya. After such a dramatic and traumatic terrorist action, it is very important that criticism, experience, evaluations and proposals for action are carefully reviewed and evaluated. Changes must be made. What has failed needs to be improved. What worked shall be further strengthened. We know that this will take time – changing the culture, attitudes and structures of large organisations is not done overnight. In the last year, the government has been making an offensive effort and has done a great deal to strengthen the preparedness for terrorism and social security in Norway. The emergency centre of Alnabru has been decided upon. Strengthening the police helicopter service, PST, police response personnel and Marines on national alerts are other examples. By March, the government presented a proposal to strengthen social security in general and police preparedness in particular. The selection to analyse the challenges of the Norwegian police will present its position in a few weeks’ time, which has already been a topic in the debate here. Together with today’s positions, the police analysis will help form the basis for the organisation of the police structure, preparedness and staffing of the future. The goal is the most effective close-up police force possible. People have to feel that the police are present in their community. Structures, organisation, staffing and equipment must facilitate this. In the event of serious incidents, local police are usually the first to emerge, and therefore the organisation of the police must be robust, so that for example: Operation centres are manned in a way that enables them to deal with major crises. Good emergency systems require clear command line and good communication. There must be clear responsibilities between the SMK, the departments and the Directorates. Defence assistance to the police in crisis situations needs to be further developed. It is positive that we now have a national police operation central and a mass recall system for police personnel. I have noticed that the voluntary rescue organisations are being raised in the adjustment. Organisations such as Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid, the Rescue Company and Norwegian Rescue Dogs are making a very important social effort. In total, there are about 20,000 active volunteers, and we see daily examples of what these mean, for example. under the flood now recently. We value them, next to the municipal emergency equipment and the emergency kits. The voluntary rescue organisations shall now be included in the emergency network. It is unfortunately impossible to create a risk-free society. We do not want a police state where everything and everyone is monitored. We want an open, democratic society with a short distance between the rulers and the rulers. Our aim is to minimise the risk of terrorism and violence by preventing, monitoring, averting and tackling it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e819	The security of the population is one of the country's most remote tasks. Managing the security of people is probably the main reason why we once started organizing the world in states. Therefore, it is important that both external and internal security function well. The July 22 Commission revealed shortcomings – unclear management and a great deal of distance between the readiness we thought we had and the one we actually have. It is therefore necessary to take many measures to contribute to better preparedness in the years to come. The most important thing is the management culture. It is also the most difficult. We can't afford it, and we can't adopt it here in the main hall. It is about how we keep the preparedness focus – continuously, from top to bottom, and permeating at all stages of those who are going to work on standby. That's why, in our opinion, it's also important to strengthen it on top. This means that we want our own coordinator at the Prime Minister's office to ensure progress and weight in the work on security and preparedness in Norway. We must build on the four principles of preparedness: the principle of responsibility, the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of equality and the principle of interoperability. However, when we are going to carry out the most important tasks, namely the safety of citizens, there is a need for knowledge to be shared between different departments and emergency services. Therefore, it is also important that there is a clear and clear responsibility to follow up developments in the field at the Prime Minister's office. Then we believe that the chance of success in a major crisis will be much greater than it was on 22 July 2011. In addition to strengthening top management in Norway related to this, it is important to strengthen our ability to prevent and prevent. It is therefore also important that the police security service has the means they need to follow up, investigate and prevent — in order to prevent this. After 11 September 2001, many terrorist attacks have been stopped, precisely because security work has been better and because there has been better exchange between countries. It has contributed to greater security, fewer estimates and better knowledge of how different terrorist environments are organised. It is therefore good that we finally got a sample that has gone through the working and resource situation of the PST and that has made its recommendations. I want to say that it is also important that, in the future, we still have transparency about the resource situation, not least about the Storting, so that we know how much we actually allocate to the work that is going on, and that the powers you need are there. In addition to management culture, it is important to introduce a learning culture. One of the 22nd July Commission's findings was that the problems on 22 July were not unknown. They'd all come up in different exercises before, but the learning from that wasn't good enough. There is also one reason why we need to keep a continuous focus on safety issues in Norway. Then we need to improve the police's ability to deal with terrorism and other crime. It is important that we maintain a model where the police are present in the local environment where people live. Police must have fewer tasks, so that they have the opportunity to be available when the audience needs it. It is rather encouraging that the reports that come – at least to the media and in part to us – show that there has not been a simplified target structure in the police since 22 July, but that it has become even more difficult, even more complicated, and more bureaucratic. In order to clean up the police role, preparedness will be significantly improved. Where police stations and janitorial offices are located close to each other, it may in the long term make sense to merge them into larger and more robust units. And as other speakers have said before, we look forward to the recommendations that come next week. But it is also necessary that we have a good, specialty police, and since it may take time for the police to expect assistance from the specialty sections, we need to have operative police officers who have enough training to handle serious incidents all over the country. For the defence, it is necessary to clarify that it is done quickly, that we lower the thresholds and remove the bottlenecks, so that the police can provide assistance as quickly as possible. Today, treatment is one step further in making Norway a safer place and in improving preparedness, but the long-term preparedness focus is not just a matter of decision-making here; it is a matter of continuous development of the management culture and of keeping alert at the forefront of the panic attack when decisions are taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e850	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e853	The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence considered amendments to Chapter 1733 of Item 1 of the State Budget to allocate funds to establish a military helicopter preparedness in North Norway. This is in the form of a request to assist the police with transport capacity as provided for in the aid file. It adds up to the same response time as you have with your current readiness to smoke, and locating for this preparedness will be Bardufoss. The Committee is committed to strengthening preparedness in North Norway and is therefore in agreement to endorse this action. In crisis situations, it is essential that different agencies interact so that they can act effectively to reduce threats and crises. Therefore, requests for assistance must also be made, and action must be taken when the situation so warrants. At the same time, the Committee would point out that it is a challenge that this helicopter preparedness may be reduced for periods due to other priority missions or activation of NATO response forces. In such a situation, the Committee considers that it is necessary to assess whether remedial measures need to be implemented in order to maintain the readiness of this allocation. When we think about readiness, we have to think about preparedness across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e864	Security and preparedness have gained a new topicality and significance since 22 July 2011. When it comes to preventing radicalisation and violent extremism, it is important that all contribute to maintaining common positions and values and reject violence as a political weapon. The school is responsible for providing both education and education to students through the purpose paragraph and the eleven points of the educational plaque. In one of the points of the learning poster, the following is stated: «Training in school shall be based on fundamental values of Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition, such as respect for human dignity and nature, freedom of mind, closeness, forgiveness, equality and solidarity, values which are also expressed in different religions and views of life and which are anchored in human rights.» For the Progress Party, it is important that this is clearly practiced as an integral part of the school everyday life in order to counter radicalisation and extremism. We need to know more about the ideas, psychological and historical assumptions underlying terrorism and how terrorism can be prevented. This requires good training in this area and points out in the case the need for emergency personnel to have as much as possible relevant training in the field of social security and preparedness. This requires that we have a good education in the fields, and is effective in developing skills. The Party considers it important to establish a National Centre of Competence for Social Security and Preparedness. Such a centre shall strengthen the interaction and coordination between the various educational institutions which have or are in the process of developing professional environments and provision of training in this field. With regard to the establishment of such an emergency centre, I would like to highlight in particular the University of Stavanger, which has an international professional environment with more than 50 researchers. They cooperate with a large international environment and already have a strong professional environment in the field of preparedness and social security in the oil and gas industry. The University of Stavanger has a well-established cooperation with several institutions in Norway that are engaged in education and training. With this network and the cooperation already established, it is possible to quickly establish a national centre of expertise on social security and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e886	I thought I'd talk a little bit about the ability to learn. I have seen, read and heard the investigations, and I have listened with interest to the debate. The summary impression and stamp of both the investigations and the debate is that there is still a need for increased efforts, both in the context of cultural construction, in the context of strengthening leadership – clear management – and the need for increased efforts in the area of computer systems, helicopters and others. However, the most important thing is that the resources available to Norway are to find each other and to cooperate. I guess I'm a little bit surprised that the government doesn't have the ability to fully respond to the fact that the resources didn't find each other. Then there is a need for arenas to interact, and not just on Back, which is what I am going to talk about – which probably someone has already understood. Also elsewhere in the country, there is a need for arenas to train just to cooperate — and not in competition with the police emergency services planned at Alnabru. Such a training centre is planned precisely on the basis of the need for emergency situations – health, ambulance, fire, police and defence, and interaction with volunteers – and it is precisely a place where we can ensure that the lines of responsibility and capacity work well together when the crisis is in place. Experience in recent years has taught us that there is a need to strengthen interoperability between emergency budgets and the response resources that Norway has in order to deal with crises, that this is improved and much clearer in terms of both responsibility and capacity. Rygge is a suitable area. Smoke military airstations may be an emergency centre that gathers all emergency facilities in one location, which will also provide a unique opportunity to train, interact and improve preparedness in the eastern region. But this needs more places, not just in the east. The emergencies should train with the Defense in order to find a better form of cooperation than the one we have seen from our experience in recent years. A Joint Emergency Response Centre must also be centrally located in the eastern part of the country and have a capacity to train all emergency situations in one place and on several different training scenarios and moments. Smoking is close to Oslo, and the resources to be trained are well suited. On Rygge there are already both rescue helicopters and emergency helicopters for the emergency squad and the Special Command of the Defence. It is economically sensible to use already existing infrastructure and parts of operating expenditure. The calculations already show that this is a good investment, also with the possibility of saving money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e899	The division of responsibilities for counter-terrorism and civil protection between the police and the defence is clear. Counter-terrorism in Norwegian soil is the police's responsibility and task. But the defense has resources the police can pull on if necessary, regulated in the aid instructions. Also in the case of recent natural disasters such as the flood, the Defense has contributed a lot to the crew and equipment. We must make the best use of the resources, across the floors, without challenging the sharing of responsibilities. If this is to be effective and flexible when the need arises, coordination, cooperation and not least training is required. One of the experiences after July 22 was that the lessons from exercises were not used well enough. If we are to strengthen the capacity of the various emergency situations to interact and cooperate, it is also important that they be practised and trained together, and that is the defence, the police, the civil defence, the fire department and the health services. It will develop a culture of cooperation. Rygge air station is now being laid down as an air station. But there will still be military activity there, with the Home Guard and helicopter exposure, in addition to the rescue helicopter. This implies that most of the military installations on Back will still be available and usable. In other words, we have every right to create an emergency centre where the defense, the police, the fire and rescue services and the civil defence can train separately and not least together. The defence helicopters are among the resources police and civil services may most often need assistance from. Communication will help lower the thresholds to draw alternates on each other's resources. «To know me is to love me», called it in an old butcher. That also applies here. To ensure that practical or mental obstacles stand in the way of asking each other for assistance when you need it, training together is a good preventive medicine. Such centres are probably needed more places in the country, but Rygge is located there and can be used without new investments, investigations or planning. Therefore, you should start here and gain important experience. But let me also – as the previous speaker did – stress that a Emergency and Training Centre on Back will not or can replace the adopted National Police Emergency Centre to be built on Alnabru. It needs to be built. It will strengthen police preparedness, and it is necessary and important to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e922	I am pleased that we have received the debate we have had here today. If there's something important for our society, it's that we have the ability to take care of our inhabitants in any context. There are different types – let's call it – of attacks that our country may be exposed to. Trine Skei Grande spoke of World War I not being what we had expected, and there was no World War II either. That's probably right. I was about to say, those who have been generals are constantly accused of planning the next war like the previous one. That is also a danger in the kind of debate we have here today. There's been a lot of talk about July 22nd, and maybe we'll see that we can get something similar again. Yes, it may be, but it may be something completely different as well. That's why it's so important that there's a broad spectrum in the analysis that we're doing when we're going to prepare for a safe and good society. Erna Solberg said that preventing and preventing is perhaps the most important thing. Yes, it is, but it's also important to have the ability to handle things when the crisis is there, and we'll focus on that. Now it's like preparing to deal with crises is kind of like democracy and freedom in a country. It has to be worked on every single day. It's not enough to have it as a theme on the big party days – it actually has to be focused on it all the time. It has been said here today that we have an open and tolerant society. We have, and we're going to be very happy about that. But at the same time it makes us vulnerable to a lot of things. The representative Klinge said we should be happy to live here. Yeah, we're going to be happy to live here, but there's a certain danger that we're telling ourselves that we're doing so well in Norway, and that what's happening in other countries around the world, doesn't come here, it won't be any of this. I was at a national meeting at the National Defence Association at Hamar last weekend. There was a lot of focus on the fact that we're doing so well, and it's not coming here, and it's easily going to be a sleeping cushion. Well, it can come here, and now there's so much more that can come here than we thought before. That is why we must be prepared. We have cyberspace, which it's been focused on before today. That's one part of the thing. There has been little focus on, for example: a chemical threat. There are a number of things that our society can be exposed to in the future. That's why it's so important not to think in booths military/civil, but to focus on cooperation between the police and the defense. It might be the most important problem in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e935	Governments are at the heart of demanding processes related to the establishment of emergency services, ensuring police helicopters and ICT challenges. With regard to the last, ICT, I want to commend the majority of the population and the state councils for their overtime recognition of how bad it really has been. There are strong deficits, and there are large unpaid bills for a new government, no matter what color it might have. But until further notice, we're going to hope and believe that new POD, to the extent that we can call it that, abilities to learn all that Divi pointed out that they couldn't do a short time ago. To put it that way: Six years of experience in this landfill, and that report is a very good example of how to not build readiness in the police, and not least of how not to subinform the Stortinget. In my line instead, I actually asked two and a half quite specific questions. One was in charge of the emergency centre. The question was whether it will be established by 2018, with the operational needs notified. It is a very specific question that I did not get an answer to. The second concerns police helicopter preparedness this summer. Will it be as good as it is otherwise in the year? Then there is a debate that I felt the last speaker was about to bring up here, which we should discuss in the future, and that is that Norway is the exception in the world at many levels. We don't have the big economic challenges yet that the world around us has. When we start looking at what is happening in some countries that are quite close to us, when it comes to extreme attitudes or when it comes to respect or disrespect for minorities, whether it's one or the other, it's pretty bad. It is incredibly important that we have a value debate in parallel with the debate on all the instruments, helicopters and all the other things that we can adopt here in the Grand Duchy, because the value debate that we all have to stand together to win against extreme attitudes, against the lack of respect for the fact that people are different, is an incredibly difficult and demanding debate. There's probably a debate that there's not going to be as much focus on in the election campaign as the struggle between government options. But the struggle that we have to wage together to combat all the evil that is behind a terrorist act is what we need to cooperate on, in parallel with fighting each other as government alternatives. A debate I want to see in the future, too, is a debate on the use of drone technology. I imagine that other people than Domino's Pizza in the United States should be able to use that kind of technology, as they're doing, and use it as an observation platform, alternatives to major police helicopters. We need that, and we need legal regulation for privacy, so we're in front of the development that we know will come, before private individuals start using drones on the neighbor. It would be a little sad if you did it before you used it as an observation platform to fight crime or to provide better control at our cross-border crossings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e947	In my role as rapporteur on the matter, I should just like to make a very brief comment on the proposals for representatives. With regard to the immediate implementation of the penal code, the proposal by the representatives of the progressive parties, the majority points out that there is a need for a continuous assessment in the ministry of the need for individual provisions in new criminal law to be implemented through old criminal law pending the full entry into force of the new criminal law. I think that's an important signal. With regard to the proposals made by the Right-wing Representatives, on ICT in the police, on the entry into force of new criminal law, the Council of State provides a broad information on ICT in the police in the State budget for 2014. That's good, and -- I'm adding -- necessary. The police analysis will also give us advice on how to use police resources smarter than today, and on how best to use new technology, which is closely related to police organisation. At the bottom of it all, we have to have a cost-effective, good-quality police force, with more focus on core tasks. We need high ambitions for the future police, where ICT is at the heart of optimum functioning. It is important for the country's preparedness and security. Speaking of this with core tasks, the representative, Oktay Dahl, was concerned that the police would have fewer tasks. It's a debate that it's very important to take – I support it. But then it is not about every turn to point to new tasks for the police, such as for example. what it would mean if one had done as right-wing, and had a general prohibition of begging. It would be a rather difficult task, to say it like that, for the police. Then I must admit that I do not fully understand the model of the Prime Minister's office against national crisis management and preparedness. I do not fully understand how this should work with regard to the role of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. I believe that this could as well lead to the powdering of responsibilities as to clarity. So I'd like to hear a little bit more about what this is really about. I respect that it's possible to have different opinions than I and others have, but I'd like to understand what's in it, if this is really neat. For what about the responsibilities of individual government councils towards Stortinget if it is a superbureaucrat to sit in the Prime Minister's office and have a role there also up against the ministry? For me, it's a little bit messy, so I'd like to hear a little bit more. It's a well-intentioned request.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e962	It's been a very interesting debate so far. I am glad that there has been a great deal of focus on leadership, and of course leadership must be exercised from the top. There is some background to how government preparedness meetings are now being conducted, how they are being practised, and how, of course, government security committees are also at the heart of ensuring that we are well prepared. Of course, there has been a focus on roles, tasks and responsibilities. This must be clear. We have also introduced the interoperability principle to ensure that those who are best able to deal with crises in everyday life also do so in crisis situations, and not least practice working well with others who have important roles in crisis situations. On May 16 last, I went to London to learn more about how the English coordinate. I have also seen that the representative Erna Solberg has subsequently gone to the same place. I have obtained information from many teams and also looked closely at how the July 22 Commission considered that we should best organise ourselves to ensure good leadership. What works best in Norwegian? That's why I think it's strange that it's still being discussed whether an official is better at coordinating preparedness than the system we've rigged us into. The question is whether this more would be a stranger bird instead of a good coordinator. I agree that it is important to have openness around PST's efforts and budgets as far as we can. That's some of the background to the fact that I've already started a work on assessing my own budget chapter for that service. Learning culture is central, and what went wrong on 22 July is very well explained in the Commission's report on 22 July. This is the background to the fact that we have spent money on ICT, on maturation measures, on more exercises and also on change management programmes both in the department and in the directorate. As late as 2004–2005, the Bondevik government presented a communication on the task portfolio to the police, pointing out that the broad task portfolio was important to continue. I notice that the representative Oktay Dahl has already concluded on the question of how the police's tasks will be in the future. That debate, I think, must be brought to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e975	The representative Oktay Dahl has not concluded what it is. We need a police analysis. The challenge is that for several years, the Right asked for a police study. Then came a police analysis, as the police director calls a police study, which was then the Right's proposal, which unfortunately should come three to four years ago. Then we had been sitting here today and were able to make really good decisions that could create a better police force. The representative, Hagebakken, said that both the one and the other have some pigs in the woods to do more work for the police. Then I can just reiterate that the Sex Purchases Act was not exactly the best moment of this Parliament when it came to giving the police more tasks. That being said, it is actually the case that the Right was the driver of a police study that would give us a clear picture at a much earlier time than that, that is. After the elections, that is when political decisions are to be taken. Then you would have a completely different situation in the Norwegian police today. The right has repeatedly proposed that civilians do more tasks, more secondary tasks, and draw available competences into the police force to release police force. Every time you have been told that this is going on. Every time we meet people in the police district, they say there are quite a lot of differences between the police districts, and there are great opportunities that haven't been used. It was also very paradoxical what came into the Council of State speech last year to the National Assembly of the Joint Federal Police Department. The first signal that came was that the police might get a new task that had something to do with marriages. The solution had to be that the police were given fewer administrative tasks, fewer tasks were done as they were doing better, as were core tasks. That is at least the political objective of the Right. Then – now that we have got this police analysis, which we are happy to do, overtime – we get to discuss concretely which tasks should be gone. Because there are some tasks that need to be removed from the police, so that they can concentrate on what is most important, I think is raised above any doubt. When it comes to the issue of ICT, we've written a lot of angry comments, which I don't have to read up here. But I have to say that if this government is going to be sitting after the next election – which I am for... sake, I'm not going to use a certain word – but to say so, that ability to inform the Storting I think you can take a little round on. Because to the extent that you call part of what the Storting has been presented over seven to eight years, for information, I really want to say that it's an interesting way to define the content of that term. There were media and press releases that Stortinget was committed to getting information from, on some imaginative explanations of what the situation was in the police. But now I'm not going to go all that round, we've been doing that for too many years. It's a day when we're together about a lot. Unfortunately, we are here today and are not given any decision on police structure, on police task portfolio, which is the rest of the alphabet to which this communication does not respond. But besides that, it's been a good debate. I think it's good to see that we agree so much on some basic things.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e988	The case rapporteur, the representative of Hagebakken, asked a question to the Right and had a comment related to the police's duties. I'll take it first. The representative of Hagebakken used the Right and the Advance Party's proposal to ban begging as an example of assigning more tasks to the police. Then I just want to ask the representative to read the position in the case of begging, where it is black on white from the Police Directorate and from several police districts that the reporting obligation imposed on the police by the government is a considerable increase in work, which means that they are to register legal activities instead of combating illegal activities. I am sending it right back to the government parties with the opposite sign of the representative probably mentioned in his comment. This concerns the question by the Council of State of the Right to have a Security Coordinator at the Prime Minister's office. We heard the Government Councils in the hearings after July 22 say that the prime function of the Prime Minister's office in a crisis was to continue the function of the government. It was therefore not a prevention measure they should focus on. It was simply to carry on business when the crisis was a fact. We imagine that the Prime Minister will be given a much more active responsibility for the country's security. We think it's completely natural, and we think it's striking that it's not in place long ago. Let me do two examples, first the Grubbegata. We imagine that a coordinator at the Prime Minister's office is just given the responsibility to coordinate across departments, so that the example of Grubbegata does not reoccur. We have seen examples that the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry were unable to notify terrorist targets in their sector within the time limit that they had received from the National Safety Authority. It is an expression, believe Right, of a failing security culture at ministerial level. A coordinator must also follow up such things and be more active from the top level. The November 2012 Review of Training Tyr highlights exactly the same point. I would also like to say that the handling of crises, the responsibility for implementation, must, of course, be in place today, at ministerial level. But we need strength from the top and responsibility at the top. That's what the Right Point is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1007	Of course, the active responsibility to which Mr Werp refers involves both resources and clarification of the constitutional liability framework. In addition, the representative described a great deal of the content of the driving role that the Minister of Justice and Defence has been given. I refer to what I said about this in my previous post. As far as police duties are concerned, it is certain that there will be a discussion in this Chamber. The last time the Stortinget had a broad discussion about this, it came as a result of a proposition from the Bondevik II government, where one had a review of this and then concluded that the civil tasks were an important part of the police's tasks. Police analysis will go deep into what it has given us of resource use now. It was when I registered with interest that the representative Oktay Dahl already used core tasks that the police obviously should concentrate on. Yes, this is important that we take a thorough discussion about, and that we do not conclude until we see the analysis from the analysis committee. I record that there has been talk of a police study for years. I must admit that I was also one of those who aired that proposal when the Bondevik administration sat at the rudder. I note that it was not implemented at that time. When we decided to put this sample into work last autumn, it was not least on the basis of the report that came from the July 22nd Commission, which was so clear on the police's lack of commitment to ICT, and that we had to go deeper into resource use than we had been working on so far, in view of the announcement to the Parliament about the police. I am absolutely sure that it will also provide a good basis for the important structural discussion that we must also have for the police. I think it's a matter of power that there's going to be a modern organization that gives the opportunity to exercise leadership. When I hear that there are 35 direct reporters to the police director, as well as their own leadership group, I'm sure there's a simplification potential in that structure. However, with regard to the number of districts and other structures, the selection setting should be first. Then we have a good basis for discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1020	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1034	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1041	We are now considering a proposal by representatives from the Right. The proposal is to ask the government: «sooner, propose to replace the Housing Entry Act guarantee scheme with an insurance scheme providing for stronger consumer protection, while reducing the negative impact of equity and loan difficulties on the construction industry.» So this is the wording of the proposal. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, do not support the proposal. I believe that the majority itself will argue for its conclusion. As I see it, it is important that the legislation we have does not prevent operators in the construction industry from building dwellings or that the legislation makes housing unnecessarily expensive. In the case of the purchase and sale of a new dwelling, the contractor is required to provide a guarantee of performance of the contract. The provision on guarantee was amended in 2010 by the law on changes in the law on residence entry and disposal. The change took place on the basis of a proposal from the government of Stoltenberg II to strengthen the requirements for the guarantees. In short, the warranty period was extended from two to five years after the acquisition of the dwelling, and the amount of the guarantees increased from 5 to 10 pst. of the consideration. The impact of the change is emerging, and this is the case in the first few smaller enterprises. Several fears now that smaller construction companies will not be able to provide guarantees in the future. This is something shared by the minority of the committee. That is why the minority of the Committee, the Party of Advances and the Right, wants to join the draft representative. These effects may mean that firms need to be closed down and that this will be particularly true in the districts, but it may also have indirect consequences in terms of more expensive and slower housing. The costs of the guarantee scheme are shifted to the consumer in the form of more expensive dwellings. The guarantee scheme does not provide adequate security to the dwelling builder, as the undersigned sees it. This applies primarily to consumers with the greatest need for protection, namely those who have major housing problems. Therefore, it is urgent to put in place an insurance system capable of providing for faster and cheaper housing, which can prevent smaller construction firms from being closed down or unable to build to the extent that they have the potential to do so and which provides consumers with better rights in the event of housing errors. I'll take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1063	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1066	The proposers shall be praised for promoting a case with a view to strengthening consumer rights in the construction of housing. However, when the Workers' Party and the Red-Green parties do not join the proposal, it has a bearing on our uncertainty as to whether this is the right way to go. We are also concerned about these consumer issues, but it indicates that a tightening of the warranty rules has already been implemented, and there is also significant regulation of resale. This amendment entered into force on 1 July 2011 and before an evaluation or assessment of the impact of this enhancement has been carried out, there are several elements that need to be assessed before an insurance scheme can be implemented. I also show that Stortinget has said that a new assessment of the guarantee rules must be carried out within five years of the promise entered into force. The changes made so far, including: strengthening the warranty requirements from two to five years and regulation of resales, may result in higher housing prices. The bankruptcy and closure of small and medium-sized enterprises can therefore be a short-term consequence. In the next round, this could lead to an even larger company that is already large today. Such developments may also lead to monopolistic conditions in the housing market. This won't be on fire. We believe that consumers are well cared for by current legislation, but the consequence may be that the market price may be higher. In some parts of the country housing prices are already high enough. If a new insurance scheme were to be introduced, this would also have a cost side that would be passed on to consumers. Against this background, I would suggest that the matter be annexed to the Protocol and that one should first carry out the assessment to be made after the Storting decided to strengthen the guarantee rules and regulated for the resale of dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1081	Four out of five residents own their own dwelling in Norway, which is the highest proportion of ownership in the Nordic region and among the highest in the world. Purchases of owner-occupied dwellings are the largest single investment ordinary people make, and housing purchases constitute a long-term and costly investment for the consumer. This means that good consumer rights are important in the construction of new dwellings. At the same time, we need to make sure that we do not have a code that is designed to compromise housing. According to the SSB, the Central Statistical Office, in 2012, the construction of 30 189 dwellings was registered — a significant number. However, it is currently being built approx. 10 000 dwellings are too small in Norway per year. In our view, the current guarantee system for construction defects is neither good enough for consumers nor most appropriate from a development and business point of view. The provisions of the Housing Entry Act on guarantee of performance of the contract were amended in 2010. In short, the warranty period was extended from two to five years after the takeover of the dwelling, and the amount of the guarantees increased from 5 to 10 pst. of the consideration. Both the construction industry and the Right warned at the time that the change could have an adverse effect on business operators in the construction industry, because it could create equity and loan difficulties. As a result of the new arrangement, the equity requirement of the enterprises has in reality quadrupled because the guarantee requirements are imposed on each other by new housing projects during the five-year period. The impact of this is now in the process of becoming apparent – first for smaller enterprises. There is reason to fear that many smaller construction companies will not be able to provide guarantees in the future. This may mean that companies have to be closed down, and this can be particularly true in the districts. Indirectly, we can also see consequences in terms of more expensive and slower housing. Thus, the costs of the guarantee scheme are shifted to the consumer in the form of more expensive dwellings. If the guarantee scheme had provided sufficient security to the consumer, we could understand that the government believes it is so important to maintain the change in the guarantee provision. However, as we see it, the guarantee system does not provide sufficient protection – even after it has been reinforced. Those who fail in the first place are those consumers who need the most protection, namely those who feel that the housing defects are large. Even though it doesn't happen often, it happens that we see errors in the million class. Therefore, as the proposers see it, the guarantee scheme should be replaced by an insurance scheme. The fact that consumers are assured through insurance schemes will not become any strange thing, such schemes are known from among others. Denmark. An insurance scheme may provide for faster and cheaper housing, while preventing small construction firms from cutting or being unable to build to the extent that they have the potential to do so and giving consumers better rights in the event of housing errors. The Progress Party and the Right propose that a legislative proposal to replace the Housing Entry Act guarantee scheme with an insurance scheme providing for greater consumer protection should be put forward as soon as possible, while at the same time reducing the negative impact of equity and loan difficulties on the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1098	Purchases of new dwellings are a major and important investment for most consumers, and therefore good consumer rights are important in this area. However, as this case shows, the extent to which insurance schemes should be established requires strict balances between the need to protect consumers in the event of non-compliance by the contractor and the need to avoid an excessive increase in construction costs. Infringement of the guarantee rules by Law No 10 December 2010 74 on changes in the law of residence entry and disposal constituted a compromise between these considerations. The fact that the legislative changes would result in a certain increase in the cost to contractors of the provision of guarantees was highlighted in the proposal as an unavoidable consequence of strengthening consumer protection in the event of increased guarantee requirements. Therefore, when the Committee's minority is calling for the replacement of the right of residence guarantee scheme by an insurance scheme, I consider it appropriate to stress that an insurance scheme will also have a cost side that raises balancing issues of this type. The question of an insurance scheme for construction defects was assessed in NOU 2005: 12 More efficient building legislation II. The selection concluded here that it would not recommend an insurance scheme as an alternative to the Housing Entry Act. The committee considered that the Housing Entry Act provided for the need to regulate guarantee and insurance schemes for construction defects, but that the statutory guarantee provisions should be reviewed in view of the extension of the amount and duration of the guarantee. This has now been followed up by the strengthening of the guarantee rules, which entered into force on 1 July 2011. On this basis, I agree with the majority of the Committee that it now seems not appropriate to consider the issue of any insurance scheme and that an assessment of the guarantee rules should be awaited in line with the conditions set out in the Innst. 74 L for 2010–2011. It was considered that, on the basis of experience gained from various actors in the field, a new assessment should be available within five years of the entry into force of the enhanced guarantee requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1111	I would like to stress that what we do not discuss in this case is the consumer's ability to get the right solution. If the guarantee scheme becomes effective, it is provided by the bank, and then the money to cover any construction errors comes from the bank. If we have an insurance scheme, the money to cover construction defects, which is for consumers, comes from an insurance company. So consumers are just as well off whether the money comes from insurance or from a bank. What made me take the floor was that the representative called up Hansen actually admitted that today's system, where one is rigidly bound to the guarantee scheme, had the effect that it could trigger bankruptcy in smaller construction companies. It was supposed to be completely unnecessary. An insurance scheme could otherwise relieve the risk between contractors without the need to reserve parts of its equity. The way we set ourselves up now means that entrepreneurs with sound equity, by their size, have a competitive advantage that does not promote competition, nor does the efficient use of resources, and thus does not help to keep prices down through competition – to the detriment of the consumer, of course. I also think that the Minister of Justice's answer was very formalistic. One feels bounded by a five-year limit to assess this. Now it was the maximum time to assess, and there is nothing in the way that the Storting can go through its own legislation if the industry reports back that this has unintended effects – effects that the industry correctly warned against in advance but that are now apparent in the ground when the scheme is implemented. Then it must be in the policy that errors can be fixed faster than keeping to theoretical limits of five years. It is also one of my dear postulates that the difference between public operations and private operations is not that the public always makes mistakes and the private never makes mistakes, but that the private is at least able to correct mistakes much faster. I also think the Stortinget as legislator should be. Therefore, there would have been an advantage for consumers, for industry and for lower housing prices if the minority's proposals had been adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1124	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1138	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1145	The Committee has examined a proposal from the Progress Party for a new way of appointing judges. According to the proposers, this will help to improve the distribution of power. According to the proposers, it is also necessary, although they point out that, as a result of the work of the Court of Justice, it has previously been decided to set up an independent independent judicial administration, an independent judicial panel, an independent judicial panel and an independent judicial disciplinary body. Much power was transferred from the Ministry of Justice, but a lot of power, according to the proposers, is again in the department. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all lots minus the Party of Advancement join the assessment made by the Council of State. The danger of party political motivation or impression of party political motivation on the part of judges is not desirable on the part of the majority. In addition, the majority believe that the established parliamentary control of the government, including appointments of office, means that there is sufficient control and reaction capability on the part of the Stortinge. The majority therefore propose that the proposals be rejected and, of course, leave the Progress Party to justify its own proposals. However, on behalf of the minority, the Right Party and the Advance Party, I address a common minority proposal, asking the government to consider models that can in the long run enable the Supreme Court itself to choose its own Supreme Justice. We believe that this is a sensible proposal, without it being said that the minority proposals of the Progress Party, as they stand alone, are totally unreasonable. It may well be that it can be assessed at a later stage, but that time is not today – and the majority recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1156	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1159	Today, the Progress Party is proposing to politicise the Supreme Court – a proposal we will not support because we believe that in the future we will also be best served by the independence of the Supreme Court in all possible ways, including political ones. I note that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. by suggesting that today's Supreme Court is not independent – despite the fact that the appointment of judges of the Supreme Court does not take place under today's regime by the fact that the government randomly picks in the mound after a candidate with the right colour of the lot. I would like to remind the proposers that it is the independent siting board of judges, consisting of three judges, two other lawyers and two general representatives, who appoint candidates. To date, the Government has always appointed the Supreme Court of the Council of Ministers. The Progress Party proposes a model that could lead to party policy in the selection process. Judges will be able to be given political stamps, which in turn will create expectations of how they will perform their function as judges. This will ignore the importance of the appearance of judges as independent and neutral as possible. I believe that there is reason to ask questions as to whether, if the proposal of the Progress Party is implemented, we can have a situation in which the candidates for the position of Supreme Court judges are campaigning against the election of bigots and bigots and clearly signaling which party they support. Then Supreme Court judges will be able to feel the pressure to be loyal to a political party, and if not, the citizens can perceive it that way. It will not only weaken people's confidence in the judges, but in the entire judicial system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1170	I am afraid the previous speakers have misunderstood the whole foundation of the proposals of the Progress Party, and I will come back to that. One of the main prerequisites of the rule of law is an independent court. The starting point for the principle of power distribution is that the three state powers, independently of each other, exercise the powers conferred on them by the Constitution. However, after the occupation of parliamentarianism in 1884, a strong transfer of power really took place from executive to elected power. These developments have intensified in a number of ways. The size is the highest popularly elected level, and a development in which the elected state power has a somewhat different position than the two non-elected state powers appears today to be quite reasonable. The proposal to involve Stortinget in the appointment of Supreme Court judges is intended to better protect citizens' rights. It is the Storting which is the representatives of the citizens, while the executive has a completely different and more limited function. A government is dependent on not meeting mistrust in the Storting, and is therefore dependent on the Storting in order to do its constitutional duty under the Constitution. However, the same is not the case in the courts, despite the fact that the Supreme Court, often to a greater extent than the government, affects the actual state of law by its judicial and judicial powers. In today's system, a lawyer with ambitions about the seat of the Supreme Court depends on standing in a favorite light towards the executive, who has the right of appointment only after the suspension of the Constitutional Council – that is, opposite to what the representative Ljunggren here tried to give the impression of. The state power of the citizens, the elected population, is completely excluded from this process. Nor, despite the insinuations about the opposite, does the Storting have any real control function over the government's appointment of judges of the Supreme Court, both in the Ljunggren report and from the Council of State in dealing with this matter. It is unmistakable that through its subsequent control, the Storting could influence the appointment of judges to the Supreme Court. At best, the Storting could throw a government council for making formal mistakes in an appointment or if the Storing does not have confidence in the functioning of the state council. It will not affect the composition of the third state power. It is obvious that it is right when the ministry believes that democratic considerations can speak in order to involve the Stortinge in the appointment process. We live in a democracy. I am therefore surprised at the conclusion when, in the next turn, the Department believes that the danger of party political appointments means ignoring democracy. It must be due to a misunderstanding when the majority believes that today's appointment process is less political than a process in which the country's citizens are heard through their representatives on the Stortinge in front of the appointment. Today, in principle, the government is free to appoint judges, preferably on the basis of the political stance of the government at all times. There are ways to do it, despite the fact that the Configuration Council is independent. It is today's system that gives rise to suspicion of any party political appointment. By involving the Stortinget, as a prior approval of several candidates, the entire party political aspect of the nominations is removed, and both the other two state powers, both the elected and the executive, are involved in the process rather than independent judges of the third state power. It is – regardless of what we may think – that recent studies show that the background of judges has a significant impact on their judicial activities. In the future, the courts will be exposed to an even more critical searchlight than they are already exposed to today. This could lead some to claim that governments exploit the appointment of judges to the highest court in that country in order to ensure the effectiveness of political fundamentals by future Supreme Court judges when they themselves have to leave government offices. There appears to be little insight when the department's response is based on a previous discussion about adding judges' appointments to the Stortinget. This proposal is definitely not about that, so I'm a little uncertain whether the Council of State has bothered to read the proposal before sending answers to the committee. Unfortunately, it is – we now experience it as well – that many important constitutional debates in this room are reduced to questions about what is policy and what is not policy. Democracy is about politics, it's all about politics. It becomes no more or less political that the government has more power over the so-called third and independent state power than the elected assembly. I hope in the future we can take such discussions with a slightly more open mind than what I think has happened during the examination of this proposal, not least after what was confirmed in the speeches by the representative Ljunggren, for the starting point here is to create an unpolitical process until the appointment of an even more independent and competent Supreme Court. I would therefore like to bring up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1198	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1201	On the basis of how the debate has developed, I need a small explanation of vote. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 in this case. It is absolutely essential – fundamental – for the Constitution in Norway that the courts are independent, that they are completely sovereign in each case. The Christian People's Party does not question the independence of today's courts. The background to our support for this proposal is that it's an investigation, and we think it would be exciting to get such a case. There's nothing more to it than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1210	To this end, I can recommend that the proposers read the chronicles of the Tore Scheis Supreme Court from 6 October 2009. I think it's worth noting how he sums up the thorough assessments that are made, also how he discusses the question of party politics views in the college and lack of knowledge within the college of judges on party political preferences, before summarizing that he actually sees the present system as good, and better than the one that is now being proposed. When I have previously commented on this as a proposal with a desire to introduce American states into the Norwegian judiciary, it is also so that this would be a system that could give the impression that party politics could be taken into account in nominations, which I believe is important to avoid. I think we deserve to have a Supreme Court that is independent in all sorts of ways, including political ones. Skilled, insightful and independent judges are a prerequisite for a well-functioning judicial system. Under the Constitution, judges are appointed to the Supreme Court as officials of the King of the Council of State. The King obtains a position from the Council of Deputies – as previously mentioned – before a judge is appointed. The Registrar shall give an oral or written opinion directly to the Ministry of Justice after the suspension by the Board of Directors has given its opinion. We need a democratic process when judges are appointed. But this must not be at the expense of the independence of the courts. In the past, it has been assessed to bring Stortinget into the appointment process — even then with a negative conclusion. The position of the Registrar in the Supreme Court stands in a special position. This post shall not be dealt with by the Board of Governors. In the appointment of the Supreme Court Justice, it is common for the Government to consult the Grand Duchy before the appointment takes place. It is up to the Supreme Court to decide whether or not to give an opinion on the issue of the appointment of the Registrar. The position of the judiciary is also central to the requirement of management qualifications. The Registrar of the Court of Justice shall be faced with special and challenging tasks as the head of a court in an activity in which the Judges have their full professional independence. It is therefore not obvious that there will be suitable candidates for the position of Justice among the Supreme Court judges. I don't think there's any reason to reconsider the system of appointing neither the Supreme Justice nor the Justice now. We have good democratic systems that work according to purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1231	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1234	I want to start by giving tribute to the proposers. I think it's unusually important that this question be raised into the Storting, because there are extremely important questions you've raised. I fully agree with the conclusion of the majority in the case, namely that the proposed solution is not appropriate. However, I would like to stress that with the role of the Supreme Court, it has and will have in the future, not just as a legal interpreter, and not just to fill a space of justice, but to be a more active co-player in the design of how this country is governed, and especially because we have legalised many of the people's well-being, it is my opinion that the recruitment of the Supreme Court is becoming more important than it has been. Supreme Courts will have a more important and important role to play. I do not recognise in the description that there are political – and party – reasons why people are appointed to the Supreme Court. I have some experience in being involved in recruitment procedures and settings. I guess we've almost replaced half of the Supreme Court in the last few years. The adjustment of the adjustment board has been followed, and for me, it has been completely unknown what kind of party preferences they have. So I think that's not where the problem lies. But the reason why I think it's good to raise this kind of constitutional question in the Storting is that we need a discussion about how to recruit to the Supreme Court, and what kind of recruitment we can secure for the future. It is worrying that there are so few applicants to the Supreme Court. According to my terms, we should have had far more applicants. The debate on recruitment to the Supreme Court should first of all focus on the extent to which we should be involved in the recruitment of such an important state institution. Then I'm thinking about both ensuring that you get an even distribution in terms of gender, and that it's also recruited well enough from experience beyond the legal skills you need in such an important position. What criteria are used for accepting or hiring applicants, I think I deserve a broader debate than what we have traditionally had. On this basis, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that these kinds of questions are raised, because I believe it is of vital importance. We are totally dependent on being able to recruit wider, to get a higher number of applicants, to the Supreme Court, if the Supreme Court is to play its important legal role in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1248	Let me first say that the majority here has totally misunderstood that the Progress Party wants to further politicise this process. What's important is that, in the distribution of power in this country, it's very unfortunate that the executive has all the influence with regard to the appointment of the third state power. But what I think is the most interesting turn of this debate, is just the last post that was made by former Minister of Justice Storberget, i.e. the current representative of Storberget. He draws up a debate that several of us tried to draw up in public during the years when Storberget was Minister of Justice – without Storberget taking any initiative in the six–seven years he was appointed Minister of Justice. But Storberget and the undersigned can agree on one thing, and that is that the amount of application to the Supreme Court is very worrying. You do not get enough applicants in total, but you do not get enough applicants in the width you would like. That's why I could imagine challenging the State Council, Faremo, whether this is a topic that the government will now address. It is well known that in the last round of the call, which was now in May, no applicants came to the vacancy as a judge in the Supreme Court. When we know what national importance this is, it's wrong, and it's very worrying. We have to deal with this, otherwise we don't get the highest right that we all want. It's probably got a little bit better in recent years than it was at the starting point, but it can get even better. Especially in view of the international role now accorded to the Supreme Court, the more and more international conditions, international law, etc. Influence Norwegian law and Norwegian judges, it is absolutely essential that we have more people with significant international experience entering the Supreme Court. We also have a very international business, a heavy oil and gas industry and heavy, difficult cases in the Supreme Court. We are totally dependent on getting lawyers into the Supreme Court who also have a heavy international business background, and not just the background of government or law firms in this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1259	This room is best suited to major political and constitutional debates. That's why I want to say that there's a whole bunch of people who don't want to politicize the appointment process of Supreme Court judges, unlike anyone who's given the impression from this pulpit. Everyone agrees that these are not party-political processes. But it is therefore about how power is to be distributed in practice. Then I would like to comment briefly on Knut Storberget's contributions, because I think that was good and reflected and shows a little bit of the point of the proposal, namely to get up the kind of discussion about how the principle of power distribution will be in the future, how to ensure an independent and competent Supreme Court. It is a challenge that there were no applicants in the previous Supreme Court rulings. Without it necessarily being possible to solve it by changing the appointment process, this is a focus that I believe this house needs to take seriously. So it wasn't my intention, if it was perceived this way, to say that one today has appointed Supreme Court judges based on party political preferences. What I'm saying is that you have the opportunity to do that. In today's system, you can do that. You can also go outside the adjustment of the Configuration Council provided that you consult the Configuration Council before the appointment. So there are opportunities to exploit the arrangement we have today, to gain from party politics. That's what's the challenge. So that's a point, for example. when we look at the case-law of the Federal Republic of Germany, that the background of judges in the Supreme Court is related to the final decision of the Supreme Court. There is also something that we have to allow ourselves to discuss in this room. We are now in – let me call it – a constitutionally calm period, so there are no major disputes or disagreements between state powers. It's not a situation that we know will be persistent. When we talk about something as important as the independent court and the Supreme Court, with the role that I think Storberget is quite right in that the Supreme Court will get ahead, it's even more important that both of the other two state powers are involved in this process. That is why I am concerned when the Minister of Justice and Security compares this proposal to ‘American conditions’. It is an attempt to undermine a discussion on how to ensure an independent Supreme Court and the appointment of the Supreme Court by using an argument that is not worthy of a Minister of Justice. It is difficult to see how Minister of Justice Grete Faremo believes that there should be a party political process when proposers propose that two thirds of the Stortinge should contribute to the recommendation until final appointment by the government. I think it's a simplification that's not worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1272	I want to get back to the recruitment challenges that have emerged in the debate so far, because I think we all wanted the very best to apply to the Supreme Court, and that we would actually have liked to have seen active competition for the offices of the Supreme Court. I can only stress that I share the concern when we see few and to some extent no applicants for office. However, I do not want to have any opinion about the recruitment of the specific office that is now available, but to ensure that we always have a Supreme Court composed of broad competences is something that I think is also a matter of power. It is then natural for the Minister of Justice and Security to have a discussion with both the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court itself, on these issues and challenges, based on and respecting the independence of the Court of Justice, and that we come back to these challenges and possible measures, and whether it is also relevant for the Council of State to take proposals back to the Grand Duchy. But, as I said, we have a lot of attention around these recruitment challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1279	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1293	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1302	The proposals we are considering today are essentially a follow-up to the 22nd July committee at Stortinget and the position where we asked that the legislative proposals that PST had sent to the ministry should be sent to the hearing. These various legislative proposals were widely commented on in the hearing. There were many important recordings, and the government continued to work with them until the legislative proposals were promoted. We also have here today – in the same way as we did in the vote of 22 July – a unanimous vote by the Justice Committee. It is gratifying and positive that we have a common approach to these important issues. Although there is a unanimous vote, I see reason to comment on some of the content of the proposals and some of the processes underlying the final result. The first point I want to comment on concerns preparations for acts of terror done by what are called solo terrorists – others have called them lonely wolves, self-radicalized people, etc. – which does not have links to large terrorist networks, or which have deliberately hidden these bands, so that only the individuals can be seen when trying to discover what they are preparing – i.e. preparations that are not made in alliances. We have had provisions from 2002 to prepare in leagues, but not solo terrorists or individuals. What we're doing now is we're going to introduce a law that also affects them. It requires some important factors that are further defined in the legislative proposal, namely that it must be a pattern of material preparations and preparatory elements before one can talk about the preparation of a solo terrorist act. The second element is that it also has to be a deliberate, that this pattern and other things make it possible to prove that it is a deliberate act of terror. This means that these – a kind of – parodys drawn from the bill in public debates earlier, that it was enough to have rubber gloves, etc. in order to be affected by this provision, nothing is in line with the proposal itself, which presupposes these two important elements which I have now mentioned. It was useful for the Judicial Committee during the hearing that we had worked on this important bill, to note that the national lawyer commented that there had been important improvements in the bill as it is now being promoted, and that he was surprised that his comments or input to the bill had been placed as negative. He also commented that he had not done his job sufficiently in terms of sharing experience with solo terrorism in the past. We think we have a reassuring proposal from the committee on this point, and that is a unanimous vote here. I would also like to comment on a few other points in the legislative proposals, where an important effort has been made to get it accurate and correct. This concerns the receipt of terrorist training in training camps. It also needs to be criminalised, but it requires that you know that it is terrorist training – that is, it is not like any other training to use firearms, etc., but that you understand that the purpose of training is to train terrorists. What we didn't include in the elements that were out at the hearing was that you could be judged for receiving terrorist training if you were in areas where there was such a terrorist training. So in general, it's not formulated here, it requires that you receive terrorist training yourself, and that you know that the purpose of that training is to train terrorists. I see that there is already a red light – we have also made the right legislative proposals to extend criminal liability for the possession of weapons and explosives, and insert a provision contained in the Law of 2005 into the 1902 Act, which also expands the elements with which we can be judged to have a hold. The same applies to the criminalisation of qualified participation in terrorist organisations, which are also further defined in the bill. We are extending the penal framework for serious acts of terrorism to 30 years. There is already a provision in the 2005 Act, and we are implementing an extension of the scope of Section 60 on organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1328	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1331	The rapporteur has explained the setting in a good way, although he may have been getting a little too short. It is absolutely right that this is a follow-up to the 22nd July Committee or the Special Committee of the Grand Duchy. As the setting also shows, this is not easy. What is proposed is that it is easy to criminalise the planning and preparation of acts of terrorism ‘shown by external signs pointing towards implementation’. When you take steps to promote such laws, it is with the background that the level of threats and threat assessments are increasing. It shows the judgements of PST and Norwegian intelligence. But there is no doubt that it is difficult. Some people might think that it's a little naive to suggest that kind of a promise. What is important here is to see that this is largely about prevention and the belief in preventing terrorism. That is why this is important, especially in these times when you consider who is monitoring who. It's a big debate around it. The Committee therefore points out in particular that: «COMMUNICATION Article 7 and the principle of legality of the Basic Law § 96 require that criminal provisions must describe the criminal relationship with a precision which reasonably permits the prediction of the conduct that is punishable.» It's a balance. Some people have suggested that we make a law to punish what people think about. But it's up to the courts and the police to show the precision that the committee also points to. I will dedicate the rest of my time to proposal No. 1, which is distributed in the hall and which relates to limitation periods. I record in today's VG that the Minister of Justice fully agrees with the proposal. The Minister of Justice also expressed the satisfaction that the undersigned now joins in her wish to extend the limitation periods. To that end, I must be allowed to say that the Progress Party promoted this proposal in 2004, and I think we also repeated it by new criminal law in 2005. If someone joins someone here, let's not make it a big discussion. It is the matter that is important, and it is important in the sense that there are many very serious criminal cases that are at risk of disappearing, even if today you have methods and opportunities, if you give resources to the police, to take up, investigate and perhaps find people who have committed serious crime. Proposal No. 1 concerns the extension of the limitation periods. The background to the rules on limitation is twofold. Firstly, evidence will be difficult to obtain as time goes on, and it is difficult to see that this will be a good independent argument in more serious criminal cases, the Progress Party believes today – in 2013. The presumption of innocence already means that there is a threshold of proof when the prosecution authorities can take action. If the evidence isn't good enough, it won't be charged anyway. It speaks to eliminate and increase the limitation periods. On the other hand, limitation is a definitive and strong instrument for cutting off criminal proceedings. If the case is outdated, it is finally closed without the possibility of a discretionary weighing. On the other hand, such remedies in the specific case would be considered by the Court of Justice if an earlier case were considered. It is fully possible to emphasise the age of the evidence in their assessment. On the other hand, a limitation is finally without the possibility of reasonableness assessments in the specific case. Secondly, society and the offender should see themselves done with a case as time passes. While these are important arguments in the area of money demand law, it is clear to the proposers that their views should be significantly weaker and perhaps eliminated in the event of serious crime. It's hard to see the value of the possibility that a killer should be able to put the killings behind him without being punished. Society should also have a strong interest in law enforcement, especially in the more serious cases. If the Storting joins this proposal today, I think we will give a lot of people, relatives and victims, a handshake with regard to their despair that the matter can be outdated. I am promoting this proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1360	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1363	The majority of this day has spent time debating the threat we as a nation, as a society, are facing. It is a threat picture that challenges us in many areas, in new areas and in a very serious way. The issue we're going to debate now goes straight into that situation description, and we're going to look at important legislative formulations to make society better able to meet these challenges in a balanced way. There are in particular three aspects that the Right would point to in relation to the principal part of this matter. First of all, we are proposing to criminalise new actions with this. We move the criminal relationship, when it happens, earlier in the order of action. So we're moving it from the action itself to an earlier stage in the sequence of operations. The third thing we do is we put great emphasis on intention and continue to evaluate the criminal relationship itself. These are important aspects of principle which, of course, also need to be looked up against important issues such as legal certainty and privacy. For the Right, it has been particularly important that we have stressed in our assessment the relationship described both in the Constitution and in the European Convention on Human Rights, which states that criminal provisions should describe criminal offences with a precision that reasonably allows predictions of what is punishable. In the opinion of the Right, these proposals provide that description. It's been absolutely crucial for us. That is why the Right-wing proposals support them. We believe that this helps both to prevent and, not least, to prevent serious estimates against Norwegian society. The comments will show that the Right wants an evaluation of these provisions, and in particular the relationship with participation in terrorist organisations. The right would point out that an evaluation of these provisions is in any case important. We note that the Left has made a general proposal on this with a deadline. On the right, we believe that the intention of the proposer is respected in the comments and therefore do not want to vote in favour of the proposal, but we point out that the proposer has an important point. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the proposal by the representative of Sandberg to end the limitation period, in particular. in killing cases. Right-wing parties absolutely share the same point of view: it is important to eliminate limitation periods. At the same time, the Right is also concerned that we should have a proper legal process in all the legal cases we deal with in this Chamber. Following the clear statements of the Council of State also on her support for the same matter, the Right is amazed that we have not received a decision-making basis until we split up before the summer. That's weird to the right. We also think it is a matter of criticism that, on such an important question, with such broad support in Stortinget, this has not been achieved until we split up before the summer and before the elections. My question to the Council of State is: Is it possible for her to comment and answer on Section 17 of the Constitution on a so-called temporary arrangement – which, when the Stortinget is not assembled, gives the government the power to implement laws – is applicable in this case? Is this paragraph applicable to the observance of the clear intention of the Stortinge in an important matter, while at the same time ensuring the cleanliness of the proceedings and the decision-making basis of the elected assembly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1383	Let me first join in the very clear, strong and clear emphasis of the committee chairman on the level of precision in the application of the laws that we are to adopt today. That is an important clarification said from the Parliamentary Chair. This is an important issue concerning the security and prevention of terrorism of our society. Here we're going to have a law that captures the developments that are taking place not only in our country, but also in the global community. Today the world is much smaller. The conflicts around the world are multidimensional and of a global nature. Take, for example: Afghanistan. It's a remote country in a different part of the world than ours. A few decades ago, we had a different focus on this country than what we have today. Today we have our soldiers and our civilians in Afghanistan. Thus, the conflicts that exist in Afghanistan and neighbouring countries have direct implications for us and our security. Syria is another country that lies far away from us, but the conflict that has now developed such a character that it can have consequences for our own security here at home. Unfortunately, the conflicts in both these countries and in other countries that are implicated in these conflicts have attracted our young people. They have been inspired by violence, weapons training and other undesirable training that, in worst cases, can be used to disrupt our social order, our security and our values. We have to take this seriously. At the same time, unfortunately, we have also experienced a terrorist act on our earth committed by a «homegrown» man who in quiet prepared terror, and unfortunately was not revealed until he succeeded in carrying out his evil plan. Some believe that he could have gone free even though he was discovered before carrying out the terrorist action, which turned out to be fatal. Of course, this should not be said. This requires strengthening the police and the PST with increased resources and better management, but at the same time the legislation has in place to provide the police with the necessary tools to prevent, detect, investigate and promote prosecution where necessary. It is important that, when we equip the police – and especially the PST – with extended framework conditions, we be careful not to conflict with the freedoms they are just about to defend. The freedom to think freely is crucial here. We are proposing today to criminalise the planning of terrorist acts, to receive training in terrorist acts, to recruit others to terrorist organisations and to support terrorist organisations by collecting money for them. In addition, we are criminalising ourselves to acquire weapon parts that can be used collectively in a terrorist act. Today, we are laying new frameworks and creating new barriers to the fight against crime in our democracy. The aim is to protect our fundamental values: freedom of expression and the right to organise freely. Therefore, it is important in this context for SV to say that intentions and thoughts about carrying out a terrorist act must be supported by the external evidence, which must prove beyond any doubt that someone intended to carry out a terrorist act. Otherwise, you can quickly get into a situation where thoughts are banned and criminalized. It would be a ban that conflicts with the very basis of our democracy and the basis of the laws we will adopt today. There's reason to remind you of wise words from Benjamin Franklin. He said in his day: ‘Those who wish to give up essential freedom to purchase a small temporary security do not deserve either freedom or security.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1403	The matter that we are dealing with today is a direct follow-up to the Special Committee here in Stortinget, in which the Christian People's Party was very much involved. And we are pleased with the proposition that the government is promoting, which is now helping to bring about preparations for acts of terrorism – especially solo terrorism. This isn't just easy. In our opinion, the framework is good, which both the proposal and the committee also support, so that it is not free here, as perhaps some in the public debate have presented it as. This is not just related to the tragic event we had a couple of years ago. It is also a fact that we had an estimate of the Jewish synagogue in Oslo before that, where he could not be punished under such regulations because there was no legal basis for it. Today – with these decisions – it could probably also have been applied. It is important for us to stress that the basis gives a fairly high threshold to take the person who is preparing terror. The trader must first have made up his mind to carry out a terrorist act. Secondly, the remainder must be expressed through external actions that show the plans of the perpetrator. This, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, is a good framework for the proposals, and I can also join in what the rapporteur has otherwise stated. So to the proposal that Mr Sandberg has put forward: I agree in many ways – as the representative Mr Werp was also involved in – that when legislative decisions are to be taken, we need a good, factual basis. When it comes to changing the limitation period in the areas we are talking about here – kill, etc. – this is not a new discussion. This has been promoted and discussed in different contexts, and, as has been mentioned, the Storting has, in two stages, actually asked for changes. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, this comes in a slightly different category. We have had the factual basis for quite a long time. Besides, it's in line with the adopted Christian People's Party program, and everyone understands that it means something when we're going to vote. There has also been a technological change that makes the time come to reconsider this. So we are prepared to vote in favour of the proposal, but I agree with Mr. Werp's request to the Minister of Justice as to whether the government sees itself as an opportunity to make a provisional arrangement quickly. If we think back, then the government has acted quickly in these kinds of cases earlier when it has thought that there was a need for it. I remember what happened in 1997. After an MC settlement in the Drama, a very fast provisional arrangement came from the government – I think we're talking about a few days. We're excited about what the Minister of Justice has to report to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1416	As the threat picture around a society changes, and as crime evolves and not least ‘implements’, it imposes new laws and demands that we adhere to the legislation in relation to the threats we face. But it is also important to take time and make sure to do a decent job with this. If not, we can end up in the situation that both the United States and England have been in, where they have experienced acts of terrorism and changed the law so quickly, then to repent because it fundamentally violates principles on which we build our rule of law. This has also been reported by Norway. We also agreed that the proposals that had been made had to be sent to the hearing, but when we wrote that comment, we probably didn't think that all the proposals were to be sent out – raw and rotten – without processing just because someone in the PST found that it was a good idea. We had probably thought that there should be a proper legal work around this, and that they should not be sent out as they were proposed. We agree with some of the proposals that are now before us. See you, for example. that the proposal sent out at the hearing on participation in training camps was incredibly poor; it could hit a journalist who would cover it, it could hit a doctor who was going to get in and save lives. It was an incredibly bad job. Now we think the wording is better, but we believe it is a clear weakness that the wording that the Ministry of Justice has now come up with has not been at the hearing, it has not been stated. But we are still prepared to support it today. What we're skeptical about is, in particular, that of intention and intent on solo terrorism. I'm very open to make a law paragraph that's also going to hit solo terrorism, but I don't think the job done here is good enough. Proving intent and intent is a demanding legal exercise. I think many of us have thought thoughts that might have been affected by criminal law, but that doesn't mean we've done it. That means we could have gone home one late evening and thought that I should have really done this, but when you woke up the next morning, you thought you wouldn't do that anyway. The question then is whether you should be punished in the evening and not punished in the morning after. Prove this is very demanding. Some people have done a better job than this, but we can't vote for the wording that is now here. This also applies to the formulation of participation in terrorist organisations. It is formulated in such a way that, in an imaginary situation, it can affect an organisation such as Nature and Youth, which is willing to use civil disobedience. If you want to stop oil drilling in Lofoten, which is a legitimate decision here, and do it by using civil disobedience or other crimes, then they can be judged by this paragraph. I have great faith that the Norwegian judiciary is making wise decisions. I believe that the Norwegian Supreme Court is able to better address this issue, but the problem with such a formulation is that it allows for the use of some monitoring methods that are extremely integrity-affecting. I believe that with these two formulations – both those relating to participation in terrorist organisations and those relating to personal intentions – you open up the use of space surveillance, the use of telephone surveillance, the use of secret raids in people's homes because they have participated in organisations that might break the law. This is our main objection to voting in favour of these wordings. We're happy to send them back. Had we been on the Justice Committee, we would have suggested that we send them back – try again – and as we have said here, that these are wise and good frames. I do not doubt the firm commitment of the Judicial Committee to this matter, but all the legal professions in Norway say that this is the wrong way to go, this is too bad a job, this is too badly framed. And when the Lawyers' Association, Kripos, Amnesty and the Riksadvokat say that these are too bad terms, yes, I choose to believe in Norwegian professional environments and not Norwegian Storing's judicial committee. Then I have to address the proposal on evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1436	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1439	We're facing a terrorist threat that's hard to deal with. Potential terrorists can take advantage of the weaknesses in our preparedness and our law, and therefore it is important not to be naive. We need tools that enable the police to avert acts of terrorism before they happen. Today, it is punishable to prepare terror together with others. July 22, 2011 we saw how enormous damage one person can cause alone. We will therefore make it punishable to plan and prepare terrorism alone, so-called solo terrorism. Today’s threat picture shows that terrorism can be perpetrated in many different ways. We have e.g. Al Qaida, for example, encourages the North. start fires, sabotage of agriculture, etc. That is why we are proposing a ban which affects all kinds of preparatory actions. The decisive factor for punishment is how far the perpetrator has come to prepare terror, not what he has used. If it can be proven that a person is seriously preparing for terrorism, we must be able to stop him before it is too late. When we see pictures of Norwegian citizens pose with weapons in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border area, we are all provoked. In Denmark, a Danish-somal brotherhood has been convicted of participating in terrorist training. This would not have happened in Norway with today's legislation. That's what we're doing. We propose to make it criminal to receive training in methods and techniques to carry out terrorism. The proposal also covers legal training, such as: training course for hunters, if it can be proved that they have decided to use the skills of terror. We also propose criminalising active support for and participation in a terrorist organisation. Today, criminal liability is limited to organisations that threaten Norwegian interests. It's getting too snowy. Terrorism is a global threat to democracy and peaceful coexistence. Norwegian law has to reflect this. I believe that the proposal is well within the limits of interference with religious freedom, freedom of expression and freedom of organisation. I therefore see no reason for any specific evaluation of this provision after some time. However, I can still make the representative Tetzschner's words from an earlier case today, to mine: There is nothing to prevent it from looking after and possibly changing the provision, if experience so requires. The consultation note on enhanced criminal provisions against terrorism created a debate. Such a debate is necessary and healthy in a democratic society. I fully recognise that these are issues that are demanding to be dealt with by a government and a legislator who is engaged in finding the right balance between society's need for security and the individual's need for freedom of action. The proposals to be dealt with here today, both in my view and in the Committee's view, ensure this balance. I am sure that the debate that has taken place has contributed to this. The threat of serious terror is one of the most serious things we face. It must be met with severe punishment. That is why we are proposing to raise the penalty framework for serious acts of terrorism to prison for up to 30 years. We also need to ensure that Norway does not become a haven for terrorists and their supporters. We also make changes to the so-called mafia paragraph. Let me come back to the proposal made by the Progress Party. Firstly, I would not say that that proposal would necessarily be like a future proposal from the government. But it is important for me to say that I have no difficulty in understanding the desperate situation behind the proposed proposal. As regards the issue of a temporary device, my comment is that in that case this would be a device that is contrary to current Norwegian criminal law. Such provisional devices have been used in the past when there have been concerns about riots and concrete work conflicts. Therefore, my starting point is that the temporary arrangement in the case we have on the table now is difficult to imagine. An emergency law on what can hardly be called an emergency by our system, as our system is, will be a measure that is hardly correct in this matter. It needs more thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1468	It was very good to get the Council of State's assessment of this with a provisional arrangement, as it gives a clear message to the legislative assembly that it may be necessary to adopt it itself if it is to take effect quickly. So until that state council spent most of its posts on. She stressed that it was important for the government to ensure that Norway does not become a haven for terrorists. Then my question is: If the Storting against Presumptuousness were not to adopt the proposals that the government has made, does the Council believe that Norway would be a haven for terrorists?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1475	I used that description not only on the question of the legislative proposals that we are adopting today, but also related to e.g.: how we now establish new rules for the placing on the market and possession of dangerous substances. We know that using dangerous substances in the right combination, you can actually build explosives. It is one of the areas in which we have looked very carefully, not least the European legislation, and we want to establish at least the same legislation here, and in some respects perhaps even more stringent in order to ensure that we have good prevention rules in this area. But also with regard to the rules we're discussing today, it's important that we constantly shudder that we don't do things that are different than the countries around us, without doing it with open eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1482	I first thank the Council of State for a very clear response around the provisional arrangement. That's not what we were hoping for, but we get the reason. My question is on the Left's proposal for the evaluation of the legislative proposals. After all, the Council of State was involved in this, too, but can the Council of State elaborate on its assessment of the need for evaluation in these special paragraphs, which are obviously principled and of great importance in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1489	I think it's important when we move such posts that we actually do, by making preparatory actions criminal in cases of serious crime, that we follow closely. In fact, I think the representative Werp himself described this in a very good way, and that we are therefore following and, if necessary, taking action to change the rules that we are adopting today, I do not think that is too unlikely. However, I do not support the question of deciding an evaluation right now, because I see that this is something that you are constantly free to do. If we see a practice developing in a direction we don't seem lucky, there's a decision we can make there and there. If we see the need for an evaluation, we should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1496	I think the Council of State agrees with me that these are very intrusive paragraphs, because they open up some police methods that we in this Chamber have previously considered very anti-truth. That means that these are serious and important issues that we have to deal with properly. You send the PST wish list to the hearing. Then you feel that it's being completely slaughtered, especially what's going on in terror training. The Ministry of Justice then formulates a completely new proposal, which will not be sent out at the hearing. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sound and good way to deal with such major and important issues when it may lead to the use of such sharp police methods against citizens of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1503	These are important proposals. They're about how we're going to fight very serious crime. Just because there are in-depth proposals, I have welcomed the democratic debate, and the work here in the Great Britain on these issues is given great importance. We sent out the PST proposals with a clear indication that it was their proposal, without us taking a position. It is not true that these questions have not been addressed in different contexts. We have had the Methodological Control Committee in work and follow up that selection setting. When, after careful consideration of the opinions of the Hearing Officers, we have also chosen to present a slightly amended proposal in relation to the consultation proposals that went out, it reflects the fact that this has been subject to a very thorough procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1512	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1517	I will first be allowed to pay tribute to the representative Skei Grande and Left, for in this case you must have a high level of precision – as I also said in my main post. The critical comments that come from the Left in this matter, I think there is a reason to notice, because at some point this law also needs to be evaluated so that we can see what works right or wrong. For proposal No 1: I noted that the Council of State said that this proposal from the Progress Party was not exactly like what had to come from the government. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State on what may come from the government, which may be similar to what is contained in this proposal by the Progress Party? What is that government might not have joined? I still hope that the government parties will join the proposal in this Chamber. This is complicated. The system is differentiated by five time limits: two years of limitation when the highest statutory penalty is fines or imprisonment for one year, five years when the highest statutory penalty is up to four years, ten years when the highest statutory penalty is imprisonment for up to ten years, fifteen years when the statutory penalty is imposed up to fifteen years and so on. It's hard. But the most important thing now is to remove the limitation period for killing and serious crime against children, and what is going on. That's what's urgent. Then it would not be so difficult to get it adopted. I record that the Council of State says in the newspaper today that this needs to be investigated to a much greater extent – that we have to treat it seriously. That is why I very much appreciate the contribution made by the representative Syversen, who points out that this very question has been addressed in several contexts. The Criminal Felony Commission, which has investigated the criminal law, has proposed to abolish the limitation period. That's why it's cover for it. Then, in my opinion, it's just about political will. I am pleased with the initiative from the Right on § 17. But the Council of State is clear and clear that § 17 cannot be used – which, after all, only regulates the government’s ability to introduce temporary exemptions or provisional provisions – because it may be contrary to ordinary law. Then at least the picture is much clearer. I would once again urge the Council of State to respond to what the government might agree with the proposal from the Progress Party. It can make the matter interesting regardless of the outcome during the voting tonight, or perhaps we had to vote immediately in order to clarify how Stortinget stands in this matter, so that we can promote alternative proposals as soon as possible at a later stage in this roll-out session.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1531	I want to give honor to the Advancement Party to press forward a clarification. There is a cross-political consensus in Stortinget, as I see it, to remove the limitation period also in morality matters. That's the good reason for that. I'm not going to make a long post about the good reasons, but they're many. Not least, there should be no automatic settlement of cases, not least a greater degree of respect for the victims and the relatives, and a greater degree of prevention of future abuse of persons who are still outside and who could have been taken if they had not had this limitation period. I also respond to the Council of State's response to what will be the difference between the government's proposal and the proposal presented. We are going to do this in a factual, sound way, but it is – as has been pointed out – not the first time you have discussed this. It is not that there is a vacuum of analysis and assessment of the question. There are thorough, fundamental balances in other types of cases. This is about whether to include or not to include a new type of crime, which has been included in some other countries with which it is not entirely unnatural to compare. I hope that the Council of State can clarify these differences a little better than what was done when we discussed the beggar legislation here in the day, where a rather empty framework law was passed. Here is a proposal on the table that, as far as I can see, is considerably more stringent and clear, so we are pleased to hear the Council of State explain these differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1538	Questions can be asked whether it is possible to use the wording «substantial, sound assessment» of a proposal promoted above the table as it has been done today, but now leave it at that. I remember with pleasure the confidence of the government expressed in the opposition asking us to consider introducing a provisional arrangement that would be contrary to applicable criminal law in this area. It is primarily the question of participation, the question of experimentation, and also the question of young offenders that needs to be carefully assessed. I have previously expressed a positive opinion about the joyful commitment that has been around the ambition of the government to abolish the limitation period associated with sexual abuse of children. However, there is no doubt that aspects of this proposal are also considered controversial by several hearing bodies. Then we owe the hearing bodies a thorough account of both their views and our assessments of them. That is why I regret to suggest that we make a thorough assessment of this question and come back to Stortinget as soon as we can. I am also pleased to note the positive reaction that has come from many who have been in a situation where the limitation period has cut them off from having their relationship clarified in the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1549	I record that the debate revolves around dealing with the big anti-terrorist picture to focus on parenting. In a way, there may be a certain context and thread in the debate, because it is about creating security in society that has anchored and understanding. Now it is about the limitation of murder cases and other serious crimes. We note that there is probably a broad – and perhaps cross-political – consensus in the Chamber that it has now come to the point where, to different degrees, one is prepared to draw a conclusion on the issue of limitation. The right focusses on good practice and good decision-making. We had hoped that there was still an opportunity to give a signal to the government to prepare a case, so that the decision could come into effect this summer. Unfortunately, it did not turn out to be possible. After a thorough review of the matter – in the short time we have had at our disposal, after all – we have come to support the proposals of the Progress Party as they exist. It is based on the fact that the matter has been clarified before. This is suggested before, and it's discussed before. The matter has been dealt with professionally and for evaluation in the past. So we support the proposal. We think it is sad and – I would say – critical that we have not got this matter in place for voting in a normal way before the Stortinget separates. It would have been very desirable. As I said, I think almost a total collapse would give its support to it. That is the basis on which we are based when we now conclude that we want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1558	As I announced in my first post, we are ready to support the proposals of the Progress Party. There was nothing in what the Council of State said, which makes us see any reason to change our attitude, rather the opposite. So it's not going to happen in an empty space. This has been investigated in several rounds, including by the foremost legal expertise we have in the field. So the state council tried to problem some of the relationships. I don't think it was convincing. We're facing the question of what the Greatness's will is. Then I think it's in place, also in the light of the debate we've had, that we're getting a vote tonight that expresses the Storting's will. So we're ready to support the proposal. In terms of provisional arrangements, I fully respect what the Council of State says about the basis for it. At the same time, I must remind you that in other cases – where provisional devices have been used, also by a labor party government – it was not exactly crystal clear whether you had occasion to do so or not after the custom we have in that area. So this is also a question of judgement. I think I should have said that. But we got an answer. I think there is reason to stress that the Council of State cannot recommend the proposal in this situation at all – and we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1567	I am pleased that all parties, except the Left, have given their support to the legislative proposals that the Committee has been discussing. There came a good reason from the Christian People's Party. The representative Sandberg mentioned that he was pleased that Skei Grande from the Left went into the level of precision of the legal provisions. I would like to comment on some of what Schei Grande said, given the same level of precision. I also think it is important that we are careful here. When you refer to Nature and Youth as an organisation that might come under the terrorist regulations we introduce today, when they commit civil disobedience, I want to demand a level of precision – with the opposite sign. When you want to ban membership of terrorist organisations, it's about terrorist organisations that have the primary objective of committing terrorist acts. We already have provisions on participation in violent organisations that would threaten Norwegian interests – what we are introducing now concerns terrorism against all interests. So when you drag Nature and Youth into the image of organisations that have as their primary aim the terrorist activity, I think you have a level of precision with negative signs, and rather create images that are more suitable to scare and create misunderstandings. Further on the level of precision: when Skei Grande believes that this opens up the wide use of all kinds of methods — secret raids, communication surveillance, etc. – I would like to point out that the proposition says the opposite, that this concerns the extension of coercive measures to a small extent, because under current law the PST and others have an important opportunity to go to court and ask for coercive measures when there is reasonable reason to believe that someone has come a long way in preparing for a terrorist act. Otherwise, the law allows the police to go to court, as part of the PST prevention activity, and to ask for coercive measures. So this is under other law paragraphs. There is no extensive extension of the possibility of communication monitoring, space listening, raids, etc. – here are the precise legislative changes. And once again, any use of these methods is to be controlled by the EOS Committee and first approved by the court, etc. So I'm asking you not to create those images that are only suitable for creating misunderstandings. The same is true when you talk about the Riksadvokat. As I referred to instead, he said he did not understand that he had been led on the negative side of the hearing bodies. He said during the hearing that he saw such important improvements as had been made in the bill, and that they themselves had paid too little attention to solo terrorists earlier. [[The President clubs]] So it's important to be precise in every way when we're going to make new laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1576	The President will remind you that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1579	I would have liked to have voted in favour of a law paragraph prohibiting solo terrorism, if it had been so precise that there was no danger that we would hit anyone else. But I don't think we have such a bill in front of us today. Yes, the proposals we are considering today are better than the PST wish list. That the lawyer would think otherwise, would be amazing, for what had been sent out, was not something I think would have gone through in this room, even though it was not long since July 22nd. The law paragraphs are so unclear and require a lot of interpretation from our justice system. I believe that it is our job to prepare paragraphs. It is clear that ‘organisation’ is defined here in such a way that only two or three people who have decided to change something politically can be involved. In Norway, we have a tradition of tolerance for the use of illicit drugs, for example: in the case of demonstrations. There is a tradition of civil disobedience linked to producing its political opinions. It's a tradition I perceive that we're quite proud of, and I don't think we'll lose. Such an unpresis law formulation as this is about, makes great demands on our legal system to continue that frame of mind. I think it is the politicians who are going to do that. Then I want to use the last minute for a explanation of vote, that is the proposal that the Progress Party has put forward on limitation. I think that our hearing institute is one of the finest things about our democracy. I think it's important to have proper processes on important, big things. But this matter I think the government has trained. I think the government has trained the entire penal code. It prevents Stortinget from carrying out the things that Stortinget wants. With its majority power – an argument that majority governments are not always the most democratic – it has now trained this so much that we are today voting in favour of the proposal for changes by the Progress Party. We don't think it's right for a elected assembly to be unable to express its opinion on changes in criminal law because you have a government that won't get it implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1592	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1606	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1615	This matter of these legislative changes is also a follow-up to a work we have had over time in the Judicial Committee. In the big news about organised crime that we discussed in the spring of 2011, which led to a unanimous vote by the Justice Committee, we asked for changes to the law to be brought back on several of the points and we have now received proposals. I would first like to say that there is also unanimity in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I would like to thank you for a good cooperation on very important issues that we have been working on for a long time – since the discussion of that big message – and on which we have received many feedback during our work in the Committee. Although there is consensus, I would like to comment on a few-three of the important proposals that lie here, because they are central to the work against crime in the future. The first concerns the transparency of information such as: has led to a case being raised – the entrance to a case, as it is called – in the police's work. There may be different sources, different informants, from which the police have received information, which are not to be used as evidence in any way in the case, but which have been the start and given the incentive to the police, for example. has initiated an investigation. For a long time, there has been a problem that the police have not been able to provide these sources with predictability — avoiding them being exposed to threats and represals — in view of how this information will be processed during any judicial process. Now we are clarifying that the law, as proposed here today by a unanimous judicial committee, is not to be made transparent in this type of information which is not to be provided as evidence, if this could lead to the disclosure of the identity of a person who has provided information to the police. In other words, there is no need to disclose anything that could lead to it in legal proceedings. It is also the case that this provision is to be followed by the individual judge who is in a position to do so — in the past there was a different wording. It is also the case that the penal framework requirement for refusing access to this type of information is lifted, so that it can also be used in cases other than where there are high penalties, because these threats and the harsh violence against those who provide information also apply in cases where there are not so high penalties. We have come up with a proposal here that I believe meets the task of ensuring the police's access to information in order to combat crime better, while at the same time we have included it within the provisions, including those relating to it. of course, everything to be relied on as evidence shall be presented in the same way as today. There are no changes there. Another point that is important in the new proposals concerns the use of surplus information from communication monitoring, space listening, etc. In the past, it has only been possible if what you have been informed about – other than those you have, for example. have been granted the right to monitor communications for — have also been able to grant the right to monitor communications. Now we're opening up information on serious crime when the police get to know them, in line with the police's duty to solve criminal offences. But there are strict demands for this. It has to be proportionate. This shall not apply to any case. It has been mentioned, for example, in the public debate. speed breaches – if you say something on the phone to someone who is monitoring communication, e.g. about speeding errors, and then you can be judged. It's not that kind of example, it's gotta be a serious crime. The Advocate General shall approve this before communication monitoring can be used, and his own documentary tasks, etc., are to be provided, so that a strict framework is laid for the use of this type of information to solve serious crime. We have different proposals that we might get back to, for example. anonymous witnessing where trafficking in human beings is to be carried out. I would also like to make proposals – one is purely technical, that the Criminal Procedures Act (Section 160a) is repealed. We have taken care of this through changes recently made to the Police Register Act. The proposals were submitted within the time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1636	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1639	The rapporteur has given a good account of the matter. Initially, I would nevertheless like to stress that this matter came in overtime. The right has been a driving force for better protection of witnesses, in order to contribute to greater security for them, while at the same time increasing the resolution of crime. It must be allowed to say that it is not entirely optimal that this type of legal case comes to Stortinget just before the Stortinget separates, since, after all, it concerns fundamental issues relating to privacy and the balance between it and combating crime. The Committee intended to consult with a good number of stakeholders who were clear in its recommendations on this law, and the other matter of terror we have just dealt with, but it would have been sensible if the Committee and the Storting had had the opportunity to deal with the law a little wider. However, the right-hand side supports the proposals and their justification, but requires a thorough evaluation of the law within a reasonable time to assess its impact and whether adjustments based on experience are also needed. It is good that the committee has gone a step further than the government in its original proposal in terms of anonymous witnessing also in human trafficking. It has a lot to say about the possibilities of solving these kinds of things, where it's very hard to stand up and tell about what you know. Cooperation with the police in other countries, such as Lithuania, was brought forward by Kripos during the hearing in the Committee. The right believes that the legislative proposals are therefore an absolutely necessary update in view of the international crime scene we are seeing. I want to add: I also hope that when we deal with the revised budget, the government parties will be able to open for the first time that we will have our own national human trafficking reporter. The right-hand side suggests $5 million. kr to establish it. It is not the main point, but the main point should be that a unanimous enlargement should support a proposal for its own national rapporteur in order to ensure an even better fight against trafficking in human beings. The question of the use of surplus information has been, and is still partly, controversial. The proposal proposes an extended access to use as evidence information from communication control and space listening on criminal offences other than those intended to be detected by the investigation. The right has dealt with this thoroughly in its group and we have come to the conclusion that the law in force is not logical. The distinction between e.g. secret search on one side and phone interception on the other in terms of what can be used as evidence or not is not necessarily easy to explain logically. Police have a general obligation to prevent and solve criminal offences. However, the right considers that the restrictions imposed by the law, by the fact that surplus information may be used as evidence if ‘by the nature of the matter and by the circumstances of the case it would otherwise not be a disproportionate intervention’ and ‘the clarification of the case without the use of the surplus information would be substantially compromised’, are to be interpreted restrictively. It is likely that resource challenges will naturally limit everything, but it is also important that the formal barriers are real formal barriers. The amendments to the Law of the Court of Justice in order to protect third parties must also be clearly assumed from the Storting and have a real limiting effect. As I said at the outset, we expect a rapid evaluation of the impact of the legislative changes – a thorough assessment. And of course, that also applies to this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1662	First I just have to praise the previous speaker for a good post. It is also linked to human trafficking, a topic on which the representative Octay Dahl is concerned, and we in the Christian People's Party are delighted and sharing that commitment. I'm going to link some comments to the use of surplus information. The issue we are discussing raises challenging questions about how the importance of society's important interest in the resolution of crime and the prevention of new offences, should be weighed against privacy and privacy considerations. As Stortinget is aware, the police have general access to information obtained through research, including surplus information. However, in the case of communication control and space listening, a shorter access to the use of surplus information and the fact that this access is so snowy should be taken into account in the assessment in this case. This case is not about access to the wider use of space or telephone interception, nor about the use of surplus information by the police in further investigation or for the prevention of criminal acts. It is only about whether the use of excess space and telephone interception information, information already collected, should be provided as evidence in court on the same line of profit information from, for example: secret search. However, a factor that makes the proposal objectionable is the consideration of the potentially ignorant third party who does not have the opportunity to know that he is not being intercepted or that this could be used against him later. But that is not the case. The rules of criminal procedure ensuring the rights of suspects and victims will be applied in a regular manner. It should also be noted that for those whom the prosecution authorities do not consider appropriate to carry out investigations against, or take action against, the reality will remain unchanged. The information will also be obtained through the current system as a result of access to interception. If there is no basis for the prosecution authority to investigate or prosecute against him, that information will not light up the day. It must also be taken into account that the proposal lays down a relatively strict framework for the use of surplus information as evidence. The information in this case may only be used if such use according to the nature and circumstances of the case would otherwise not be a disproportionate intervention, and clarification of the relationship without the use of profit information would be significantly compromised. Furthermore, it is the State Attorney who must decide to appeal or to appeal under the rules of acknowledgment on the basis of surplus information which could not have in itself justified the use of the method in question. This will contribute to quality assurance and to avert possible abuse of the methods. I am also aware that the case points to the fact that such a change in the law will hardly lead to a real change in the number of cases where communication control and telephone interception are used, compared to today, as the relevant police methods in such cases are very resource-intensive for the police and subject to control both in advance and after. Against this background, the Christian People's Party sees that the interests of privacy in this matter are adequately safeguarded in the proposal, and it takes care of the protection of society and its citizens against crime. So the Christian People's Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1679	The government has contributed to many difficult and large case-by-case cases among the 200 cases of a two-man group in 20 days. This case has not been received with great pleasure in that pile. I believe that the Committee's attitude is marked by one big thing: the fact that the Left is lacking in the Committee – for those perspectives are not at all included in the comments. I think it's a very honest thing to discuss that you want to move the limit to when you want to use space listening and phone listening. I think that's an honest and straightforward debate to have in Stortinget. If you want to move limits, so that it takes less crime to be able to use those methods, we get to take that debate. I don't think the Left will agree, but we need to take the debate. At least that's an honest point of view. But this belief that everything you can gather together when a user uses such large and anti-integrative tools, should be able to use in much less crime than what we've been talking about before, I think I'm very difficult in principle. I'll try to explain it briefly, and also so that the representative Oktay Dahl can understand it: There's a big difference between secret search and phone interception. The big difference is that it includes a third party. It includes someone who's innocent. It includes someone who has never received a court order against him. It includes someone who has never done anything to get the search light on him. If you do a secret search, you don't get to do it with someone who doesn't have anything to do with crime. It is possible that one under a secret search – we have tried to think a lot – finds something next to a bed in a bedroom that allows one to possibly identify some of the privacy of someone else, i.e. a third party. But there is nothing against monitoring an entire conversation on the phone or a conversation in a room. That's what's the difference. A secret search goes on the suspect, the one who's got a conviction against him. A mobile phone monitoring of a call includes a third party, a third party that has done nothing to get into the police searchlight, in the same way as in the case of room listening. That is why we have stricter requirements. It takes a lot more to get phone listening and room listening than a secret search. There's a lot more to be done to use those police methods, because we in this room have seen that they're more anti-truth, mainly because they include a third party. That is why we in the Left are going to vote against the proposal. I think it would have been much more honest to take the grip of moving borders. Then I think the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad made a good contribution. I can't help but understand that the post must conclude that you have to agree with Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1694	Initially, just a small comment on the question of hidden search. I think we can well imagine that many people see it as an intervention as communication control and space listening. A hidden search may also reveal relationships with third parties. Many people live together in a house. Just let that remark fall before I proceed with the following: I am very pleased that it is a unanimous judicial committee that has given full support to the government's proposal for changes to the Criminal Procedures Act. In particular, I note that the Committee welcomes the amendment of the transparency rules, as emphasised by the Advocate-General as important in the open consultation of the Grand Duchy. We are taking an important step towards strengthening the ability of the police and prosecution authorities to protect sources and informants. In order for them to be willing to provide information to the police, they need to feel secure that their identity is not revealed. In Oslo, there have been cases where the police have had information about major drug networks. But investigations have not been started because witnesses have felt unsafe. We can't have it that way. The prosecution authority should therefore be given a substantial further opportunity to refuse access to criminal documents. A derogation from the right of access is provided for where there may otherwise be a risk that the identity of a person who has provided information to the police will be disclosed. The exemption shall apply to material from any concealed coercive use and not only from communication control, such as today. The rule of anonymous witnessing must be designed in such a way as to provide possible witnesses with predictability and certainty that they will be protected in the form of anonymity if they are presented. It is very unfortunate if the prosecution authority chooses not to testify, for example: police officers working ‘undercover’ because the risk of the witness’s identity becoming known is perceived to be too high. But it is also possible to imagine other witnesses who can feel this very threatening. Access to anonymous witnessing is now extended to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, as well as – I note the Committee’s overall view of it – trafficking in human beings. It also opens the door to protect the identity of witnesses from a number of legal actors, both law-enforcement members, laypeople, defenders and aid lawyers, to prevent the circulation of people with such knowledge from becoming too large, and to limit the risk of leakages. In order to combat crime effectively, it is necessary to extend access to so-called surplus information as evidence. There is information from communication control and space listening on criminal offences other than those intended to be detected by the investigation. In its hearing opinion, Kripos cites an example illustrating the need for a change in law: in 2009, Kripos received information from abroad about a well-known Serbian research environment in Norway. A comprehensive investigation was started using hidden methods. The purpose was to avert the coarse rane of a gold wholesaler. At the same time, the environment planned rough thefts or rough ransacks against individuals. The police had to intervene as they suspected a serious theft from a dwelling where the residents were at home. All the evidence against the suspects was in the results of the hidden investigation and could not therefore be used because of the prohibition on the use of surplus information in criminal proceedings that do not even justify such coercive use. The government therefore proposes to remove this ban. At the same time, we are proposing a number of legislative changes to ensure the legal certainty of the objectives. The use of hidden coercive agents means that a large amount of material, such as sound and image recordings, are collected. For privacy reasons, we therefore propose clearer rules on the deletion of such material that is not used as evidence. We strengthen the protection of the anonymous sources of the press. We also legislate on a general rule of professional secrecy for defenders and aid lawyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1727	It is possible that these are questions that become too private. It's about which privacy limits we have, and it could be different for each of us. The Council of State believes that house searches are as integrity-impairing as communication control. For example, we can do this. talk to those who have experienced the kind of surveillance. We've had some scandals with Norwegian surveillance up through the story, where people say that there have probably been some people who have searched the house for papers and have ‘walked over’ the house, sail if also the third person has lived there. But what they have reacted to is, for example, To know that there is a microphone in the bedroom that makes everything that happens there, there is actually a representative from the surveillance police who hears. Doesn't the Council of State realize there's a difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1734	Well, I understand that there may be a different view of this, and that these are the instruments to be used with the utmost care and within the legal framework. It should not be forgotten that this can only be used in cases where serious crime is suspected. When I took this up, it was really because I think it's important to be aware that people can perceive this differently, and that phone control or hidden search can be perceived differently in terms of the degree of integrity impairment. When we see today that the hidden search actually does not have the strict frameworks of communication control, it is worth noting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1742	It does have exactly those frames because we've seen that it's not that restrictive – at least not from the point of view of this room. In all the stories we have from those who have experienced it, it has probably been said the same thing in itself. The Council of State used an example here that has still remained in all the debates. I'm wondering if there's any more examples. At least I wonder, when you get surplus information, you can't use it in legal proceedings, but you can probably use it for investigation. I guess we could also use it to prevent crime from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1749	The first question was really related to what affects innocent third parties or not, and that a house search might as well meet innocent third parties – literally – at home in a house where there is a suspicion of serious crime. As regards the question of the possibility of e.g.: The PST for the purposes of prevention can only be used as evidence of acts of terrorism, as is currently regulated by the police law, § 17f. In the proposition, we explicitly write that we do not accept changes in this provision. Thus, the Ministry’s proposal for surplus information relates only to excess information from investigations after methods have been used on grounds of suspicion of serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1758	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1763	I just want to underline the consensus of the representative of Rupstad's posts and mine. We actually took up the exact same things, even though it wasn't completely understood by some others here. It is all the restrictions contained in the legislative proposal, before you could possibly use it as evidence in a criminal case afterwards, this is about – not new methods, which you could get the impression that it was about. There is talk of existing information that has been obtained in the investigation, after the prosecution has been removed and a criminal case has been committed. I think the representative Roppstad's posts were very good in style with mine, and that is probably also why both the Right and the Christian People's Party voted in favour of the government's proposal. When it comes to this with a breach of integrity, it is not that secret search feels very good by an innocent third party who incidentally also – for a shorter or longer period of time – belongs to that place. I think it is a central point actually to point out that there is no logic in the code when one has separated between telephone interception on one side and secret search on the other. It's part of us who have both one and the other visiting, living with many people, sharing an apartment. Of course, a third-, fourth-, fifth-person can be violated by the secret investigation, just as one can be it by a telephone interception, but then it is a central point that there is also a limiting factor in the bill with amendments to the court law, which is just to ensure that those considerations are taken care of, among other things. in the case of closed negotiations. I think we should sometimes think about what was the intention of the legislator in 1999-2000. It is not certain that the subjective feeling that each individual has, exposed to one of these methods, always corresponds entirely to the intention of the legislator. It is, in fact, quite personal, which the Council of State was also in and was relatively clear in its response.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1772	We, as legislators in this room, have made a gradation of how detractive we think different police methods are. At the top of that scale is room monitoring and telephone monitoring. There's a reason for that. That's a reason you've had it. As I tried to say in the question to the Council of State, all those who have been subjected to this type of surveillance in Norwegian history have always described the monitoring of communications and the monitoring of spaces as much more restrictive than anyone who has gone through the house. I believe that the principle behind it is the principle that this hall still supports. At least I haven't seen anyone suggest that secret search should be moved up among the more integrity-enhancing methods we have. It may be that someone has big secrets hidden in boxes under the bed. They must have it for me. I don't think that's what can be surplus information that can be used. I think that's a reason why you want to use space surveillance and phone surveillance more actively for less crime, that's what you really choose to do here today. I think there's two ways we're going to be very careful, because it does something to people when you don't know if you can talk privately, either by phone or in rooms, and that it can be used against one, taken out of context. Then we move slowly, but surely in the wrong direction when it comes to very many of the important data protection struggles we are going to face. They're not the few of us. I'm a little dismayed, really, at the fact that the Justice Committee has not had any further objections to this process, which is moving really many posts forward in view of what's about our privacy and the intrusion of our personal spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1784	I was stimulated by the formulation that Skei Grande had at the end, which is suitable for creating scares of what we actually adopt. Now, when Skei Grande says from Stortinget's pulpit that you don't know if you can talk in private by phone or in room, you make a picture of what we're dealing with here today, which is beyond the reality we're talking about. We're talking about the seriousness of crime that's going on, the fact that a person's communication control or space interception has been given. You have to go to court to get that. If another person rings or is in the room with the person concerned and talks about a crime of some seriousness – that is, talking about a crime of some seriousness – the state attorney will have to admit that it is proportionate and not about speed limits, which Skei Grande has talked about in the public debate, given that it is not possible to go further in resolving that crime with a common investigation, and that you need that information to get the whole picture, given that there is a task of proof in court, and that information from excess information from a legal communications control, given all the conditions and more – could assess whether that information can be used to clarify crime that is serious and important to us, by means of the change we are doing today. This does not mean that you should sit around in Norway thinking that now you no longer know if you can talk privately over the phone or in rooms. You have to be careful to express yourself in as general a way as you have done here and in the previous debate, when you talked about Nature and Youth as an organisation that could be affected by terrorist legislation. I just want to ask you to strive for accuracy in the discussions. It is good that it comes correctively also from parties that are not in the Committee on Justice, but it is important that we conduct the debate on a common basis, so that we do not talk about generalisations that have little to do with reality and the proposals that are being promoted – by an overall Committee on Justice, otherwise. I think the representative Roppstad's explanation of the problem, which we have also been through, as André Oktay Dahl was through, and which we have had extensive consultation on, etc., is a good description of the balances that are being made. There are no more cases of communication monitoring to be carried out on the basis of this here, but it is the strict framework for using information from which we have put in the Committee's position. We have to try to show that we're going to create security for people in this society without threatening privacy, and then don't make scary images when we're as precise and accurate as we are in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1793	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1796	Some people call it scare pictures, I call it telling you that the emperor doesn't wear clothes. We're now moving the limit dramatically down. We leave to judges to decide whether that is right, and if a judge in the Norwegian court makes a mistake, the information is out there. A conversation you have had with someone who has then been monitored is out there. You're involved. It's been opened because it's actually been open in a court case. We move the list and leave it to the judgeship to clean up after us, instead of actually taking an honest discussion about where that list should be. What I think is alarming, is that you get so shocked that someone actually points out that we are moving many important posts in the Norwegian legal state with the principle decisions we are making here today, and that it is done without almost being allowed to debate it. That's when you're doing Scare Propaganda, when you're really telling the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1803	I believe that the representative, Mrs. Skei Grande, should be commended for participating so vigorously in the debate. There are just these debates we need to have on these demanding issues. We must also take it on a factual basis, and as the representative of Bohemia was involved, communication control can only be carried out in cases where serious crime is suspected. When we now discuss the use of surplus information — and agree that it needs to be put into use — this applies in cases where the State Attorney has to take action on matters to be illuminated with surplus information. It is the State attorney who, in the submission to the court, must express what evidence is surplus information, and argue that it is proportionate to use it, and that evidence of criminality could not have been easily obtained by other means. Defendants receive a copy of the shipment and are likely to object. It is the right to decide, at last, whether to use the surplus information. I have full confidence that the State lawyers' offices and the courts together are making sound and neutral assessments of whether the surplus information should be provided as evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1812	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1827	The proposal and the suspension propose a new Section 8(a) of the passport law. This provision allows the police to use information from the central passport register for more tasks than is provided for in current legislation. In addition to the purposes of the passport law, the police shall be able to retrieve, on the basis of the proposal submitted, information from the passport register for the following use: Working to find a missing person or to identify a dead person or a person it belongs to police duties to help. Furthermore, in order to identify a person who can be or is to be apprehended or arrested in police detention. Furthermore, by preventing or investigating an act that may result in a higher sentence than prison for six months. Furthermore, in work under the Foreign Affairs Act to clarify the identity of a person obliged to provide information on his or her identity, by checking the information to be entered in the Central Register of Criminal Reactions and, finally, when the person to whom the information relates has given an explicit consent based on voluntaryity and information. Following the proposal, the collection of data from the passport register for those purposes shall be possible through so-called direct access. Furthermore, the provision states that information extracted on this basis shall not be stored beyond what is necessary to fulfil the purpose of the processing of the information or to document the examination of the case for which the information has been obtained. In addition, in order to meet the needs arising in practice in order to exchange information in the context of the international police cooperation in which Norway participates, a rule on access to the provision of information from the passport register to foreign police and security services is proposed where this is not considered disproportionate. The Judicial Committee supports the Government's proposal for a new Section 8(a) of the Passport Act and other amendments to the bill that are necessary to adapt the new provision. But I recommend this to the committee's unanimous attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1844	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1858	This case concerns proposals to charge the services notarial transactions, including marriages, and retention of wills in the courts. Today this is a free service. This matter is a follow-up to the Storting Budget Decision, and therefore the Committee has no problem in accepting the imposition of a fee for the retention of wills and parts of notarial business – the exception being civil marriages. I will come back to this. Where there is a charge for the retention of wills in the courts, the Committee will be advised to set the fee at a legal fee of 0,8, equivalent to NOK 688. This is also in line with the government's proposal. The Committee also considers it reasonable for the public to pay for the State's costs of notarial confirmations. In respect of the amount of the fee, the Stortinget King gives authority to determine the amount of the fee. When it comes to fees for marriages in courts, a unanimous committee will postpone this proposal until we have been given a new and thorough explanation on this issue. Today, if you are married in a church, this is initially a free-of-charge service similar to weddings in the courts. If one were to impose a fee on marriages in the courts now, it would constitute an unfortunate discrimination compared to weddings in the church. It's a well-known matter that performing marriages means a significant cost to society. Especially in the case of marriages outside working hours. Therefore, it might not have been unreasonable that a married couple had to pay a small fee for such a service. It is a challenge to charge for such services in the courts now, it would be difficult without seeing it in connection with weddings in the church. The Committee is aware that there is a discussion in some prostis about the charging of weddings in the church, even if the Council of Churches is critical of this. The Committee believes that equal treatment of marriages should be an important principle of risk and life- views policy when it comes to charging. Therefore, the Committee asks for a broader assessment and discussion of this issue. Against this background, a unanimous committee would recommend that this issue be postponed now, and would ask the government to come back to the Storting in a thorough and appropriate manner. When it relates to the loss of income in 2013, it will be brought back through redeployment in the budget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1884	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 13 and 14 are treated together. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1913	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1927	Does the rapporteur wish to speak? André Oktay Dahl – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1932	First, I need to know if it's the Minister of Justice who's going to keep the post here. We are informed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is the one who sort it out, and then we have a challenge because the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1937	But one State Council is present, and there's another, without that going to change the matter. We have at least one State Council present, and then we can continue the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1940	The Committee has examined a proposal from the Left that, since 1993, the UN General Assembly has recommended that countries have a national human rights institution in accordance with the Paris principles. These include recommendations on national institutions, including: to ensure their independence. The Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights (Norwegian Centre for Human Rights) was granted so-called ‘A’ status in 2006 and thus considered fully in line with the Paris principles. However, a report from March 2011 — the so-called Sveaas report — concluded that the link to the University of Oslo has limited the ability of the national institution to fulfil the role of monitoring and driving on human rights issues. In November 2012, the recommendation on downgrading came to B status. The Committee is concerned that Norway remains a driver of human rights issues, both nationally and internationally, and assumes that the government is taking this seriously. The Committee noted that in 2012 the government decided to set up a working group to assess whether the current system should be amended and whether a new national institution should be established. The working group has completed its work and the Committee has taken note of the fact that the report will be sent out at general consultation. The Committee points out that funding needs to be clarified as part of the follow-up to this work. A unanimous committee shall require the government to ensure the necessary progress and that the Council of State, or the person who feels the call, clarify in its statement when this may be in place. That's a bit of a reason why I'd like to have a government council here that had the opportunity to give... that's very good! [[Minister for Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide enters the staging room and takes place.]] The Committee may then be given the opportunity to clarify when it may be in place, since that is the background to the Committee's proposal to annex the proposal to the Protocol, if the Council of State is not offensive enough in its reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1953	The President will draw attention to the fact that a government has only two ministers, the rest of them state councils. That term applies to everyone present in the hall on the first bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1956	The proposal we have made has been promoted because of it. Norway lost its status because our human rights centre was not considered independent enough. I think it's important that human rights be elevated nationally in order to be able to raise human rights internationally. I have taken it up a number of times and in several debates that when Norway starts to slip in terms of human rights, we lose our authority internationally when we talk about it in other countries. Therefore, it is important to have the institutions in place to perform the important functions to be performed, in order to say that we respect human rights at a high level. We see today that we have a great job going on incorporating human rights into our constitution. I guess it's going to be one of the big jobs the next big time. Let's hope that there are many more liberals there who can help with that work. But we also need to have the institutions in place. We have many different degrees of institutions, which are not directly subject to government, but which are still being debated in the Storting. We have e.g. Annual report of the Data Protection Supervisor, which is subject to debate right in Stortinget. We have the Civil Ombudsman, who has a special position in Norwegian constitution, and is appointed by Stortinget. But it is possible to have a different level of contact between the Storting and such a body to make it work well and independently enough – which is a bit of the point here. Then we think that the model that the Stortinget appoints the leader, or that there is a debate related to the annual report to such a body, or that some of the other models that we have used in Parliament to fulfil that role are relevant. That's why we've put forward a proposal, which we've divided into many pieces, in the hope of getting support for some of the pieces. It is quite possible for the representatives to vote for the whole model, or you can vote for pieces of it to increase the pressure on the government to get this in place. Because it has taken quite a while to get this investigation in place, and it weakens Norway internationally that we do not have all the elements of the monitoring of the human rights situation in place. I will, on behalf of the Left, take up the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1969	The representative Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The next speaker is Councillor Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1972	I refuse to speak, since Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide is now here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1977	Yes, it is good that the government is flexible – at least internally. Then I give not the word to the state councillor Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, who has signed, but to the foreign minister Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1980	That's also drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1986	Jada, who gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e1989	Norway is and will continue to be a driver of human rights issues, both nationally and internationally. In Norway, human rights are highly protected. Thanks to the 1999 Law on Human Rights, human rights are given precedence over other laws, where there should be contradictions, and there is a well-developed case law in Norway to this effect. At the same time, it is important that Norway has a national human rights institution in accordance with the international standards set out in the Paris principles of 1993, as we had until last year. Norway, of course, wants to have an institution that can achieve A status in the international network of national institutions, and the government prioritises this work. As the Committee has noted, a cross-ministerial working group has just completed its work of assessing whether a new national institution should be established, what tasks the institution should have, and what form of organisation would be most appropriate. On the basis of the report, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs draws up a consultation document which will be sent to the public in a short time. I hope for broad participation in the consultation round. The final conclusion will be drawn when the recordings from the consultation round are available. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has gained views from a number of human rights actors, including the representatives and civil society. These points of view have been taken into account in the preparation of the recommendations that will be included in the consultation document. In its review of today’s situation, the investigation has concluded that Norway has a well-developed but somewhat fragmented system for monitoring human rights. A new institution is needed to strengthen the coordination and systematisation of human rights work in Norway. A new institution should constitute a professional centre of gravity which can assist both authorities and civil society in human rights matters, while playing an active monitoring and driving role. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has assessed different forms of organisation and also the possibility of adding the task of national institution to existing institutions. The consultation document recommends the establishment of a new independent administrative body subject to the U.D. and the legalisation of the institution's purpose, independence, functioning, tasks, organisation and management in a new law. It is proposed that the institution be given a broad mandate to promote and protect human rights. It is also proposed that a national institution be managed by a board of directors and a director. The Management Board is assumed to provide general guidelines for its work, while the Director shall be responsible for its activities on a daily basis and represent the institution externally. Furthermore, it is recommended that a new institution be associated with an advisory body consisting of representatives of non-governmental organisations, the representatives, other particularly concerned public institutions, the academic environment and specifically concerned professional groups. The power to appoint the Board of Directors of the institution should be shared between the Grand Duchy, the King of the Council of State, the Conseil and the Advisory Forum. Candidate proposals are obtained from a wide range of bodies and institutions. I believe that this model will be fully in line with international standards and will facilitate the establishment of an independent institution, which can reflect the diversity of society. Although the consultation document proposes the establishment of a national institution as a new independent administrative body, it also points out that it would be possible to entrust the task of national institution to an existing body. The consultation document discusses the possibility of adding a new national institution to the Stortinget, either as a new body or by the Civil Ombudsman. The consultation document highlights the advantages and disadvantages of the different options and makes a useful contribution to the discussion on the form in which national institutions should be disclosed. I would like to stress that the government has not taken a decision on the form of organisation that should be used, nor on the financing. The important thing now is to facilitate a broad and good debate before we conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2010	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2013	I understand that the Council of State will have a little more time, and I can't exactly accuse this Council of State that it has taken so long – I could have accused anyone else for that. However, I would like to ask the Council of State for a principle, because the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights believes that a national institution should report annually to the National Assembly, and that the National Assembly should preferably appoint the head of the institution. There are at least two principles that can be taken into consideration before deciding on the whole organisation and the proposal procedure and how to integrate the NGO world into Norway in such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2020	Through a broad consultation, we have a good basis for the discussion we are about to have. This will, of course, be important perspectives in such a discussion. I would like to add that we are now basing the investigation that has been made, that it is being discussed, and that we are drawing conclusions on a free basis in line with that. But what I don't want to doubt is that we want this to be a real, good and effective institution and that it should meet all the criteria that make it want to have A status. I think that's the input value we're going to have, otherwise we're waiting for the debate that's now coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2025	The question is simply: When does the Council of State think it is realistic that we can get an institution in place at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2030	I think the correct answer to that is, as quickly as possible, taking into account that we should also have a good word change in the light of this hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2035	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2051	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2060	Providing education to children and young people is an important investment in any society, and therefore also an important objective of development policy. Today there are 61 million children who are not given the opportunity to go to school, despite the fact that we have seen a progress in the last 10 to 12 years, among others. as a result of the intensification of work through the Millennium Goal No. 2, which is about securing all boys and girls the right to basic education by 2015. The proposal for a representative proposes that education should be given priority in development aid. It is an overall committee that shares the intention of the proposers that education must be part of Norway's development policy strategy, and that it is important that we put it high on the international agenda. In particular, it becomes important in the context of the development of the new Millennium Goals, which will replace those we have today. Norwegian education assistance is provided through various channels – through multilateral institutions, through civil society organisations and through bilateral support. In total, Norway uses about 10 % of the data. Six billion. expenditure on training assistance, but additional appropriations are used over budget lines which are not as easy to read or to be found in the budgetary documents. For example, when we provide money for vocational training in agriculture, we find the figures on agriculture and not on education. It is not easy to compare from one year to the next, for example. because funds are channelled through multi-use loans or through budget support. It is therefore an overall committee that is concerned about the importance of good information on the budget, and we expect the 2014 budget proposal to provide a proper overview of how the funding for education is distributed. The majority of the Committee, i.e. the opposition parties, promote in this case proposals to increase the share of education aid in the aid budget and to ensure sufficient capacity for planning, management and control of development cooperation in order to increase school coverage and learning outcomes. The factors they address in this proposal are all the games on the Stortinget. The Government Parties believe that the intention of the proposal is safeguarded by the development policy pursued today. So there might be a discussion about how different parts are focused, and then I'm aiming for the sharing discussion, which we've had quite a few laps on lately. It is in the proposal that the share of education and training should be increased. I think that's a very good position to have, but I think it's right to draw attention to the fact that we've had a lot of discussions in the last year where there have been demands to give more support and increase the share of health, education and human rights, to mention something. Then it must be allowed to ask questions about what the total of all these requirements will be, and perhaps especially in view of the fact that two of the opposition parties will cut the aid budget and also do not want the 1 pst. goal – that is a little special, I think. In that case, the proportion and the percentage are not as important as that, then it is the quality and not the quantity that counts. In the case of basic education, Norway is the sixth largest donor country in the world, and then claiming that Norway does not spend money in this area is actually wrong. Yesterday, the Storting handled the Storing News Share to create, which is about fairer distribution in the world. This communication highlights the government’s view of education as one of the most equalizing tools available. Education is also of enormous importance for achieving more equality. It is therefore an overall committee which points out that the government's efforts on education have had a special facility for girls, and this is an effort that still needs to be given priority. Furthermore, there is an overall committee which has common comments, where training is devoted to marginalised groups and perhaps especially to children with disabilities. I also think it's important to mention that. I look forward to an exciting discussion here today. I'm afraid we're going to be rehearsed of a discussion we've had before, but we can tolerate that, because we're going to be in a campaign soon, and then we're ready for a cold.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2081	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers who put an important issue on the agenda. Education is a human right and there is no doubt that education contributes greatly to getting people out of poverty. The party of progress is advocating the freedom and self-determination of the individual. Effective means of achieving this objective are the reduction or removal of obstacles to man’s development, capacity and achievement of his own objectives. In order to achieve this, education is an essential factor, and therefore it is natural that education is a field of activity in developing societies — both Norwegian and Norwegian countries where Norway contributes. Given that Norway is to provide assistance, it is natural for the Progress Party that the assistance given must be given for the best possible purpose. It is therefore essential to achieve a stable economy, where several instruments are used to ensure this in order to develop health and education in the recipient countries. The fundamental liberal view of the Progress Party is based on the fact that all people have certain universal freedoms and rights regardless of where they live in the world. Rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of belief and the protection of private property are fundamental in our view. Education is the dissemination of knowledge about these rights and human rights, the fight against violence and oppression, and the raising of land to new and better levels where the individual's freedom and value are guaranteed. Yesterday we dealt with the Storing Message Share to create in this hall. The message should be called Creation to share, as one would like to create something to distribute, but political semantics can be a little subtle and not always very precise either. But there's a slightly different debate. The reason why I mention this big message is that it was out of focus on education and how important this is to develop societies and to make them grow, despite the fact that the second thousand-year target of the United Nations is to ensure full primary education for all boys and girls by 2015. When we know that 61 million children in this world are still out of school, there is no doubt that Norway and the world have a way to go. It was a unanimous committee which in this case was of the opinion that education must be high on the international agenda, and in particular followed up in the work on the new thousand-year targets. Personally, I would like to see it as more natural to finance educational measures in poor countries than to spend aid on rainforest investment in Brazil. I think the impact on the world community would have been greater if you were to teach children in poor countries. In the 2013 budget, the text of the opening chapter indicated that the government is planning to spend about 1.6 billion. kr on educational assistance. It is no further impressive that the proportion of Norwegian education aid has been reduced over several years. In 2012, the financial statements showed that it had fallen below 6 p.m. Both the share and the real value of education assistance is the lowest in a very long time. It's a cross of thought. In addition, it is worth pointing out that the government has an obligation to inform the Storting about providing the best possible information on what is in the government budgets and to report afterwards on the possibility of verifying whether the use of the funds has been in accordance with the decision of the granting authority. The fact that this kind of information and its availability must and can be improved is very clear, and something the majority of the committee, consisting of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, notes in its comments on the matter. The opposition, which forms the majority of the Committee, is of the opinion that the government must develop a new strategy for training in bilateral aid and ensure that the competence of the EEAS in this field is developed so that this assistance can be managed in a good manner and that education issues are better followed up. The Progress Party welcomes the proposal for a suspension promoted by the civil parties in the Committee and hopes that the Storting will support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2107	Health and education are two of the most effective ways we can pursue development policies. These are perhaps the two areas that can reach most people in the shortest possible time to contribute to sustainable poverty reduction and poverty reduction. There has been over time an improvement in the proportion of children who are not allowed to participate in education. Today, the level is approx. 61 million children, but there's too much. We know that girls are more vulnerable than boys to being kept away from school. It has many reasons, which we have discussed a lot in this room earlier. It has been a long time since some took international leadership to put education at the top of the development policy agenda, as was done with the Education for All objectives in 2000. Then it was useful to make progress. It was perhaps the most important driver that we saw over a few years at the beginning of the 2000s a sharp decrease in the number of children kept away from education. Now the positive developments have stagnated, and that's a move I hope does not continue forward. Norway, and the government, should be commended for taking international health leadership, in particular mother and child health, vaccination programmes that have helped to save many lives, but also to sustainably combat poverty. I want the government to take a corresponding leadership role for education, because we know it has tremendous effect when there is a systematic investment from donor countries, and not least from recipient countries. The girls' education has a special place in this. Not only do girls who are trained have the opportunity to create a more independent life, but it reduces child mortality, they have fewer children when they are educated, they get married later, and it increases and improves mother and child health – in other words, many positive side effects in addition to purely educational and economical. The rapporteur mentioned, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Development will also mention the fact that the proposal shares its intention. I'm glad to hear that, but this discussion we've had a lot of times. In the last eight years, there has been no doubt that the share of education in the development budget has fallen. And not only that -- the total amount we spend on basic education has been silent since 2005. In 2005, after the Bondevik-II government was very busy doubling education aid, which was a success, we spent 1 billion. kr for basic training. In 2012, we're still using 1 billion. kr for basic training. In the same period, the development budget has increased by 9 billion. kr. What has taken most of the growth is forest and climate action, which is very important, but the weight between the two areas of activity has, in the Right's view, gone crazy. That is why we are also very concerned about the proposal before us, and we wholeheartedly support it. It is quite obvious that education is about more than school buildings. It is about the accountability of governments in recipient countries, about the quality of teachers, and not least about access to teachers — there will be a great shortage of teachers in the years to come — and it is about reaching marginalised groups. Children may live in areas that are difficult to reach, and they may be disabled children. You have to make a lot of effort to reach the most marginalized. In the Millennium Goals, it's now a little ironic: until now, you've had simple goals to achieve, while you're about to hit, it's harder to achieve, because they're more marginalized. There has been talk of making it more visible in the budget how much is going to education and to which projects. There is an intention behind the whole committee, and I also ask the Minister for Development to take special note of it. We have our own budget lines in very many areas, and we should also have that on education, which is such an important – I would say a very essential – factor in any successful development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2128	As we get a more modern society, the importance of education, skills and knowledge increases. It is important in all areas – for democracy to function, for its resources to be managed wisely, for business to be competitive, for young people to have jobs and income, and for combating malnutrition. As the government underlines in Meld. St. 25 for 2012–2013, which Stortinget treated yesterday, is one of the most equalising tools available. Here in the United Kingdom, there has been broad political support for a high priority of education assistance for a long time. Until the government change in 2005, training assistance was significantly strengthened. After that, the trend has turned around. When Norad’s ex-post accounts are presented, we have been able to conclude year after year that Norwegian efforts for education have fallen significantly. The proportion was over 9 pst. at the change of government almost eight years ago. The last two annual accounts show that since then the proportion has fallen by one third, to below 6 pst. The appropriations have not even kept pace with price developments. The real value of Norwegian education aid has fallen by several hundred million dollars in these years. This is why the Christian People's Party presented the proposal for a representative where we propose to strengthen Norwegian efforts for education in developing countries. We are pleased that the entire committee sees the importance of strengthening the education chain in the world's poorest countries — from a good primary school, up through secondary school and to higher education and research. There is general, verbal support for this in the Committee's position, but it has also been during the last two major periods, while the value of training assistance has been reduced in practice. In the proposal for a representative, we have put forward proposals for increased efforts in ten points. Let me mention some of them. Basic training for all remains important, including: to ensure school provision for children in conflict-affected countries, slum areas and in some outlying regions. The offer must include disabled people, who are often discriminated against. We can't just think about quantity. The developmental impact depends on the quality of teaching and on the learning outcomes of students. It helps little to accommodate more students into a narrow classroom with unskilled teachers. The student's learning outcomes must be ensured by strengthening teacher training, offering practical vocational training and improving access to educational material. The needs are enormous. In the setting, we've concentrated on the overall nucleus. We have to reverse the trend, the decline has to rise. Training assistance must be effectively strengthened. The priorities must be real. That is why the proposal for a decision reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase the share of education aid in the aid budget and to ensure sufficient capacity to plan, manage and control development cooperation in order to raise the school coverage and the learning outcomes.’ We had hoped to have a unanimous committee on this, because we haven't even clarified how much education aid should be strengthened. Although the electoral programmes of the government parties also contain fine words about aid for education, we do not support their proposal here in the Stortinget. It is all the more gratifying that the majority of the committee, the members of the party of the proposers, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Progressive Party, support the proposal. It may be that a change of government is needed to make a practical impact in order to increase efforts in education. A little heartache from me: It is sad to see that a proposal that I would actually believe that there is a majority cannot be adopted here today. I know that many in the aid communities in Norway want to increase Norway's education assistance. I know that many in this room want the same thing. But those who want better education for the most part are the children in the world’s poorest country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2160	Education is a human right, and it is the countries themselves that have the primary responsibility to fulfil this human right. Since it is taken up by the representative of the Christian People's Party, I just want to say that the alliance partners on which the Christian People's Party has chosen to go to elections to get a new government, parties who themselves say very clearly that they want to cut the aid – some of them want to cut dramatically in the aid. But it is the allies of the Christian People's Party. I would also like to say to the Christian People's Party that they have put forward a proposal proposing a number of measures to increase Norwegian education in development cooperation, and in the written opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Committee I have explained why we do not support these proposals. I'll get into a couple of the premises for our positions. The government has not significantly reduced Norwegian education assistance over the last two major periods. The appropriations have remained stable over the last few years. For the years 2006 to 2012, the average is over 1.6 billion. kr. per year. The competence for education has not been reduced. The opposition is based on a reduction in the number of seconded advisers in the field of education assistance. I would first like to make it clear that there are no education counsellors in the embassies. Some of those who have been there and worked on education programmes have educational backgrounds — currently in half of the countries, three out of six countries, where we are working on them. It's Madagascar, Nepal and Afghanistan. And there were educational employees in about half of the stations, four out of nine, even before the government change. But what's much more important is that the knowledge base on which the entire EEAS is based is at home – with a very competent staff in Norad. Currently, Norad has 12 permanent employees working in education and research. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to stress that the important conclusion we can draw from the many debates we have had on education in this Chamber this year is that there is a broad consensus that work on achieving the Millennium Development Goals is not over, and that education still needs to be a central sector in Norwegian development cooperation. We will work to ensure that education remains a central theme among the development goals that are now set out and that will be worked on in the next two years. We are pleased – I have recently been discussing this today – that the High Level Panel report puts education as central as it does. We believe, however, that the Norwegian efforts to achieve new development goals should be put in place in fields where we have special contributions to make, and that is where we prioritise, among other things. equality and our energy cooperation. An important way to strengthen the impact of our efforts is to cooperate with other donors in larger programmes. That is sensible development policy. Another way is to work through the voluntary organisations in a country where the authorities themselves do not have the ability or capacity to invest in education. It's a work we're strengthening in this year's budget. We then help to reach the most vulnerable and marginalised, and those countries that have capacity but do not want to, among other things. by absorbing too little tax revenue, they themselves have to take more responsibility for their own population. That's our message in front of these governments. We see a positive development. Even among the poorest countries, the authorities take more responsibility. I can give an example where Norwegian assistance has contributed positively, and where Norwegian assistance in fields other than education assistance has nevertheless triggered significantly more capital than total Norwegian development assistance. In Zambia, we spent $26 million. to help the authorities increase revenue from the mining industry. The number of people – told me by the authorities – who work with taxation only in the mining sector has increased from 5 to 25. Revenue increased by 1.7 billion. kr, and the amount of the authorities, which increased after education and training during that period, was about SEK 1,7 billion. kr. It only shows how efforts in non-educational areas can help to strengthen the country’s own ability to take on increased education responsibilities. We see that several countries do. Several countries should use larger own tax revenues from basic public services. Many of them understand it very well and already do it. But the aid we gave to Zambia is not on the statistics on education aid, but it has triggered considerable funds. Finally, I fully agree that the aid budget is difficult to reach. Especially in the field where we work according to both thematic and geographical priorities, it's hard to read the numbers out of context. Already in next year's budget, we are taking more action, not only by opening up – as we are doing today – all the databases for public assistance, but also by making representation in the proposition, numbers and text, more transparent and readable. And I'd like to talk to the committee about how we can further make it work better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2189	The Minister of Development keeps saying that it is a challenge for the Christian People's Party to cooperate with a party like the Progress Party, which will cut the aid. And that's quite right: we want a different device on the aid, we want to give priority to the most important things, what helps to lift people out of poverty. It is in stark contrast to the policy of today's government. Now it is a reality that the figures show that the proportion of aid that goes to education has been declining in the years in which SV has been in government. Does the Council of State see that education is a particularly important factor in lifting people out of poverty? Is the Council of State in this case proud of the negative trend in development assistance over the years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2198	I just want to say that I have stood here and had many debates on education aid and assistance with the Progress Party, and every time the new tone and new arguments come from the Progress Party. Here it is said that the Progress Party will have a completely different device on the aid. The truth is that the Progress Party will cut the aid budget by at least a quarter during the year we are in now, and with even more in principle. The Progress Party stands here and says that they will give priority to aid to the poorest countries, that they will give priority to education, but the truth is that the Progress Party has said clearly from this pulpit earlier that they do not really want state-to-state aid at all because it is wrong policy. On the development policy of the Progress Party, we know at least the following: it is completely different from that of the government, it is probably quite different from that of the Christian People's Party, and it is much less solidarity than the large majority of the people of Norway want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2206	I record that the Council of State does not answer the question. I also record that the state council, as usual, is under attack instead of taking over the fact that the share of education aid has fallen during his reign. It is clear that the Progress Party wants a development policy and an aid policy that helps to lift people out of poverty. I record that today's government is very concerned with equality and energy, and we see that one of the biggest beneficiaries is Brazil, while we see that the number of children in the poorest of the poor countries does not receive the education they require. What about the thousand-year targets that the nation is very concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2217	As I explained in my main post, it is very clear that education assistance has been stable at about 1.6 billion. kr during the years of government control. So it's true that the general budget has increased more, and the priorities have also gone to other things. We have prioritised education aid in this, as we say, and we have ensured that the country's revenues have increased through the other aid policy and development policy, so that they themselves have been able to spend more money on aid. I noticed that the representative of the Progress Party in his post said that it was not necessary – that it was wrong to say parts to create, we should say create to share. Our point is that it just shows the difference between our policy and that of the Progress Party. In many countries, wealth exists, but the will to share, so that one can get enough money for education for young people, is not present. That's why we have to have a distribution policy that is in line with our values.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2226	When the Red-Green Government was to present its first own budget, i.e. for the 2007 budget year, they took the opportunity to take education out of the list of priority areas of development policy. It has had some consequences. The contributions to development assistance have remained still since 2005–2006, which was the last budgets of the previous government. But areas where the government has committed itself and has chosen to give priority, such as: Health, forest and climate have seen large increases in budgets. In the case of forests and climate, the proportion of the budget of 9 pst has been reduced. For approx. 16 pst. During the period, the aid budget has increased by 9 billion. kr, but it has not been possible to increase the appropriations for training assistance within that framework. When UNICEF's Director-General Anthony Lake was just here, he just said that international leadership had to be taken, and that he hoped Norway would. Why has it not been possible to get the same commitment to education as for other areas, from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2235	We have a commitment to education, but I think it's the right development policy, and I think it's modern development policy to make countries able to take greater responsibility for themselves. That is why we have invested more in natural resource management, which provides increased income to countries. We see that it works in this way that countries themselves invest more in their own development policies and in their own education policies. I think it is right to give priority to what is the most important challenge in the world today. The climate challenge is a huge challenge. It is right to help support under-landers who do what they can to adapt to climate change as well as to help prevent deforestation, which also affects people. It also affects the most marginalised groups of people, such as drug users and drug users. lives in the Amazon and other jungles. Then we believe that we should fight poverty through a good policy of distribution, which we discussed here yesterday with a good debate. It also helps to enable countries to take care of their own education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2242	This goes on education specifically. Governments had many numbers and came into many different areas, but this was about education. He was very concerned about possible partners and what they did, but I'm actually concerned about why not the government and government parties can agree to say something about that they're actually going to increase the investment in education. At least norad's numbers say clearly that in 2005 we used 9 pst, now we're using less than 6 pst. In other words, the real value of the funds we use today is less than in 2005. Are these numbers from Norad wrong? Isn't this right number? Is the Council of State really satisfied that we are going down on these appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2249	The numbers from Norad are exactly right -- and then there's a lot of ways to read numbers. The fact is that the appropriations allocated to education over the last period, from 2005 until now, have been approximately stable. It means something like that that I said instead, at $1.62 a.m. kr in annual appropriations. So it's kind of gone up and down in the different years, partly because we haven't always been able to spend the money. But we've had the priorities about the same level. You could say there are many dilemmas associated with leadership, since the representative asks about the facts and numbers around this. By providing funds to organisations — providing core support to organisations working with education — that money will not necessarily be categorised as educational assistance. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that we should focus on core support for organisations rather than necessarily supporting programmes. It gives more ear marking, and we're negative to that. Instead, we want to strengthen the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2256	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2261	When I was 18, I got my first trip to Africa. I was allowed to travel to Uganda – an 18-year-old who had engaged in politics, pupil council and what was – mostly because the school place wasn't as nice as it should be, we wanted a ballbang and a football field. Then I met children in the slumber in Uganda in Kampala. It was a meeting with someone as old as me – he was 17-18 years old – and his name was Elton John. Obviously, I remember that name, and then it was something African. We talked about the future, and Elton said he had a dream of becoming a doctor. I thought it was good, and I hoped he could handle it. I stood myself thinking at the same time about what I was going to be, because I had all the possibilities. As I continued digging, it turned out that Elton had no schooling. He was 18 years old, and probably never had the chance to be a doctor. It sparked my commitment. When you have the human vision that all people have the same value, it made a strong impression on me as an 18-year-old, and since then I've always decided to fight for the poorest people in the world to be heard in a country like Norway. That is why I have always been proud of Norwegian development policy. When we look at developments in poor countries and developments in schooling, Norway has been one of those countries that have contributed to the development of the world. The representative proposal we have presented today is based on the fact that there are still 61 million children who are out of school. I see that the Storting is concerned about it, and I hear the Council's argument that he doesn't necessarily need to give more money over the budget, but can go other ways to prioritize assistance. I don't doubt it. But I also record in the distribution message that we discussed in Stortinget yesterday, that when one discusses new goals after the Millennium Goals, education is not elevated as one of the priority objectives either. I don't have to spend the last minute talking about how important education is, because we all know that. That's the prerequisite for creating development. So, in the document today, there are ten concrete proposals that would have been good to adopt, but as the representative Svendsen had in mind, the committee has chosen to put forward a proposal that I believe the Storting could have adopted, because it has just been formulated in a way that the government parties could vote for. As former Minister of Finance, the President agreed that there are many ways to use numbers. There's no doubt about that six-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. Fortunately, there has been a significant increase in the aid budget – although it has remained – but the share of the money that has gone to education, which we all say is part of the assumption, has fallen from 9 p.m. to 6 pst. It's not an upgrade of the commitment to educational assistance, it's a downgrade.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2288	In this proposal, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs submits a proposal for amendments to the Law of 15 June 2001 No. 70 on the establishment and modification of local and county boundaries, or in short form, the law of division. It's now ten years since this law was passed, and the experience we've gained in that period has formed the basis for the changes proposed. The law has been in consultation and consultation replies have been important for the proposals for amendments submitted: border adjustment and sharing of municipalities with large power revenues sharing and bundling of municipalities and, in so far as county councils decide power when changing county boundaries, some questions related to economic work before a merger and before a municipality or county is divided, and the different parts are added to other municipalities or counties; Finally, the proposals deal with the selection of the auditor and the secretariat model for the control committee as well as the financial and administrative implications of the proposed changes. It is a unanimous committee which endorses the Government's proposal for amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2310	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2324	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2333	I record that in the wake of Storting's treatment of the ship's labour law, there has been a debate on gender-neutral concepts, as from now on seafarers in the sense of the law must be found to be workers at sea. Now I think otherwise that sailors will continue to be sailors in most contexts. With the focus we've had on equality in the last few days, however, I hope that the "gravy sailors" will disappear forever and ever with today's decisions in Stortinget. Now, when the Seafarer’s Law is replaced by the Ship’s Labour Act, it is quite undeserved that public attention to the law is linked to cosmetic renewal. The Ship Labour Act is the Law on the Working Environment of seafarers — recognising that working conditions at sea are so special that a law applicable to land cannot automatically be transferred to maritime transport, although the main purpose of the statutory audit that has taken place is to make the environmental law and the ship’s labour law as much as possible. The Ship's Labour Act, which now replaces the Seafarer Act, represents a significant improvement in seafarers' rights. Example of this is a reinforced job protection, extended right to leave and introduction of protection for alerts. One of the changes that may also be noticed is that the age limit, or rather the protection against dismissal due to age, is shifting from 62 to 70 years. This, of course, does not prevent the social partners from agreeing on previous retirement age for health and safety reasons. When the 62-year limit was introduced, it was a worthy end to a long career at sea in order to ensure older seafarers. However, this has gradually become a coercion that also affects those who today have both the desire and the health to be on board after the age of 62. Now, like onshore workers, they can continue to work after that time. I also assume that the age limits of the Ship's Labour Act will continue to be adjusted in line with the age limits of the Labour Environment Act, when applicable. Apart from two areas, there is a relatively broad consensus on the various paragraphs of the Ship Labour Act. However, it is not irrelevant that the Progress Party distinguishes layers with the other parties in view of the employer’s responsibilities for shipping companies and that both the Right and the Advance Party reject the introduction of an administrative fee in the event of a breach of the Ship’s Labour Act. It helps to further doubt the employment of Norwegian seafarers, the recruitment of seafarers and the working conditions of the maritime industry if the voters appoint Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen to rule the country after the September elections. On the one hand, the Right stands, which will limit the net pay system for seafarers according to the so-called model of competence and at the same time introduce NIS on the coast. This in turn will lead to Norwegian shipping companies flagging out, sending Norwegian seafarers on land and replacing them with low-paid Asian crews. On the other hand, the Progress Party, which will extend and enforce the net pay scheme, is opposed to joint and several liability and will introduce national minimum wages on board Norwegian ships. The Progress Party correctly states that many of the measures promoted by the government are contrary to key principles such as free competition and freedom of organisation. Like other parties, the right has recognised that employers' responsibility at sea is now completely different from the one when seafarers were employed in a shipping company that both drove and owned the ship. Today, seafarers are recruited and employed in various forms of crews and rented to the shipping company operating the ship but who do not necessarily own the ship. It is therefore the government, with the support of a broad majority of the Stortinget, establishing a joint and several liability that makes the company responsible for the remuneration and employment of seafarers, even if the actual responsibilities of employers are elsewhere. However, the point is that seafarers’ wage and working conditions are at risk of uncertain outcomes that day – and still against assumption – the Right and Advance Party are negotiating a government basis. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the two batches will reverse today’s decision to allow the Maritime Directorate, as enforcement authority, to issue an administrative fee in the event of a breach of the Ship’s Labour Act. This weakens the ability of maritime administrations to sanction infringements. An overall committee proposes that the employer should at all times inform employees of who is the company at all times and of the obligations under the law of the company. Such information shall be made available in writing. This is of particular importance where joint and several liability is involved. The joint and several liability of the company, in other words, the obligation to ensure that manning undertakings comply with the obligations of the law, has a preventative purpose. Those who abide by the law have nothing to fear. Those who do not do so can be made financially responsible for it. Of course, it is not easy for seafarers to assert their right to a crew company in one country, leased by one operating company in another and a company in a third country. It is therefore necessary to add that other laws may also apply when financial requirements are to be enforced. The Law of the Sea provides for the law of the Sea, i.e.: workers at sea may claim a pledge in a ship in the event of non-payment of remuneration, overtime, holiday pay, food allowance and compensation for unjustified dismissal or dismissal. This is a priority requirement if the Sea Patent Court is applied. The Maritime Organisations, LO and UNIO have called for the Ship's Labour Code to be extended to the field of occupational safety, much the same as the Maritime Code. On the other hand, the joint responsibility of the Ship’s Labour Act at some points is more extensive than in land-based activities, precisely because working conditions at sea are so much special. The government parties and the Christian People's Party believe that international trade in labour, with renting in several stages, makes it necessary to look at such activities in an international context. It is clear that these activities increase the risk of social dumping and contribute to undermining an organised working life. International shipping is no exception in this way — rather the opposite. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has therefore announced that it will follow developments in this area very closely and that it will consider detailed rules for renting. In this context, the majority request that the Ministry also assess the scope of joint and several liability, including the protection of the position. Workers at sea shall, as a general rule, be guaranteed permanent employment, such as on land. However, employers may need to hire temporary workers. As in the Working Environment Act, the employer is now subject to an annual obligation to discuss temporary employment. There is reason to believe that an obligation to discuss in itself will reduce the use of temporary employment. Finally, I would like to state that the obligation to discuss the matter is also imposed upon termination, and that an employee invited to the discussion meeting will need to meet with the trustee. Then it is also natural for collective discussions to be required in larger manning processes. A controversial point in the legislative process has been the right to stand in position while negotiations are ongoing or pending before the courts. Not least the employee organisations have been involved in this. And here there's an improper difference between a ship and any job on land. The majority of the Committee, like the Ministry, is on a compromise basis, i.e.: that an employee must have an unconditional right to stand in a position during negotiations but that the employee does not have the same right during a legal process, unless the right to a claim from the employee determines that it is clearly unfair that the employment is not maintained during the proceedings. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2375	The Seamans Act was adopted in 1975. Since then, working life has been changing, including at sea. The result of these developments has led to a selection that has looked at harmonisation of the Law on Seafarers and the Law on Working Environment, which has now become the Shipwork Act. The Shipwork Act takes into account much of the same rules as the Labour Environment Act. The party of progress believes it is important to have good and safe working conditions, including for those working at sea, and has supported several of the changes. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has pointed out that many of the measures promoted by the government are against central and superior principles such as free competition and freedom of organisation. These schemes also represent a public intervention in free contract law and the responsibility of the parties for wage formation. In particular, this measure applies to the public sector. It is therefore necessary to clarify that the Progress Party has an own proposal to provide a national minimum wage as an alternative to public administration and as a response to undesirable working conditions in the Norwegian labour market. The Shipwork Act has also been given its own ‘alert paragraph’. The progress party is pleased that a notification paragraph will now be inserted in the new law. When the government in June 2006 proposed changes to the Working Environment Act in order to ensure that people who warn about illegal conditions in the labour market would be better protected. The authority's rationale for introducing the alert paragraph was that a more alert was requested. Warnings seem positive for democracy, society and the enterprises. Nevertheless, we see that today's alert paragraph works mainly against its purpose, both as a result of design and as a result of the lack of compliance with the intentions behind it. Still, there are alerts who have poor protection, despite the fact that the government has said the opposite. The point of progress is concerned that there are many conditions that are not notified, because the stress of standing up actually becomes too high, and that the protection against the alert is not affected. The Progress Party therefore proposes in 2011 to set up a selection to evaluate how the alert paragraph works. Not so much has happened in this way, and alerts continue to experience that it is a major inconvenience to say whether or not there are critical issues in the world of work. We have daily contact with the notifyers who actually want to notify us, but who do not dare. The Progress Party has called for a net pay regime here and has proposed this in the context of the revised national budget this year. We have also recorded that the organisations of seafarers believe that the maritime industry needs a net pay system. In the government’s 2013 draft government budget, it was proposed to set of 1 600 million. kr for employment measures for Norwegian seafarers. This amount was also proposed in the State budget for 2012. Taking into account the annual wage and price growth in society, this represents a real decline in the wages of the employment of seafarers. The government said in the budget proposal that the reason for this is that you want to limit the growth within this area. The reimbursement system is very important for the fleets of this debt, all the time they operate in an international market where many of the countries with which we compete have much better arrangements than what we have in Norway. While one from Norway has chosen a reimbursement scheme limited to NOK 198 000, several of the countries with which we compete have chosen a model with a net pay scheme. The Progress Party now believes that a work must be undertaken to legislate a fully-fledged net pay system for seafarers, so that one is more competitive towards the countries with which we compete and at the same time gives the industry greater success. That's why we think it should work internationally to eliminate this form of nutritional subsidiar. Until agreement can be reached in this area, Norway should also have competitive arrangements for the employment of Norwegian seafarers. The Ship Labour Act also addresses the use of contracted labour and temporary additions. The party of progress has become the debt of both the government and the LO to ruin working life, because we want more employees into ordinary work. The progress bar has always indicated that the main addition rule should be fixed and the temporary addition rule should be as it is today, four years. However, we have also said that we want there to be room to use temporary inclusion in order to postpone groups to be able to enter the labour market, so that they also get work experience and build their own CV. If this is to ruin the working life, I thought those who claim it should ask all those who are on the outside, who do not feel that way. It must be better to be paid by an employer outside than within Nav. In maritime transport, of course, there are different needs for temporary additions. In maritime transport, employers need to be able to adapt the workforce in the event of fluctuations in labour demand. In particular: fishing is the very seasonal nature of the activity itself, and in the domestic fleet there are major seasonal variations in the need for certain categories of workers. Seafarers also become pensioners, and the Seafarer Act gives the right to denounce a worker with age as a foundation in the blink of an eye who is 62 years old. The Ship's Labour Act opens up the possibility that the protection of the position will remain in force until the age of 70. The Progress Party supports this change and believes that age alone is not the basis for giving up a worker. Therefore, the Progress Party has previously put forward a proposal to allow workers to work at the age of 75. The general rule in the pension scheme for seafarers is that seafarers who have accumulated at least 150 months of seagoing service are entitled to a seafarer’s pension from 60 years of age or 62 years of age if they are still at work. When the age limit for seafarers increases from 62 to 70 years, this will have consequences for the pension scheme. The change to raise the age limit for seafarers does not require a review of the pension rate for seafarers, based on the increase in age and the impact this will have on the retirement of seafarers. The Party of Progress has therefore proposed such a review in order to address the impact of the change. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2413	The representative Laila Marie Reiertsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2416	Norway is a maritime nation with long and proud traditions, which we were not least documented in the excellent NRK series «Our honor and our power». I also come from a maritime town, from Porsgrund in Telemark, and have grown up with seafarers and sailors as an important profession. Otherwise, it is worth mentioning that what has created the most involvement in the local press at home is whether it should still be allowed to use the term ‘seafarer’. Although it makes sense to have a more modern and gender-neutral term in the law, I am absolutely sure that the Storting agrees that if people continue to say “seaman” between themselves, we can live with it. There are many good measures in the proposition presented today. Therefore, the Right also supports most of the measures put forward by the Government. The proposals on age limits, on coordination with — or at least approximation to — the Labour Environment Act, on making it easier to alert, on making welfare systems more accessible and on strengthening welfare schemes, etc., are all widely agreed in the Committee, and that is very good. An important point for the Right has also been to listen to the social partners – both the employee and the employer. It is very gratifying to note that there is also agreement between the parties on the measures put forward — at least most of them. Both parties have had to give something, while they have won in other areas. It might be a lesson when we notice that this is a proposition from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It could perhaps be a lesson for other departments of the Workers' Party, for example. The Ministry of Labour, in which, in very many cases, the blatant chooses to ignore the tripartite cooperation and unilaterally listens to one party, thus providing measures that are often polarising and that do not have broad support. I would also like to stress that another reason why the Right agrees – in addition to the weight we insist that the parties have reached agreement on many of these measures – is that it is important to bear in mind that the shipping situation is special. It is simply a slightly different working life at sea than on land. That's also why we, for example: need a separate maritime work environment law. However, the specific situation of shipping, e.g.: employment conditions make it also natural for the Right in this context to support joint responsibility for the shipping companies. And I am pleased to note that the Shipowners' Association agrees – at least they have agreed – that there is a sensible arrangement in this context. I want to use my last few minutes to prepare some points: The right has not proposed to lift the operating range limitations in NIS. What you have suggested is to put down a sample to look at the constraints of NIS. When you put down a sample, it's not because you know the conclusion in advance. It's because you're not sure what the conclusion should be. Clearly, dealing with all the possibilities of recruiting foreign staff on foreign salary and working conditions that you do not have today in NIS also has major problems. When you put down such a selection – however you do it – it is natural to listen to the parties, including the employee organisations. The Labour Party and my good colleague Steinar Gullvåg repeat on a case-by-case basis that the Right is opposed to administrative fees. We're not. We have administrative fees today. For example, these may be imposed by the Data Protection Authority and the Air Safety Authority. That's also why the right entry in the comment: «Rightly, it is reasonable to have the same rules on infringement fees in the Ship Labour Act as in the Working Environment Act.» But – and here is the Right Criticism – the system of infringing charges has grown uncontrolled in recent years, without the Stortinget being presented with a case in which to discuss it thoroughly and to establish some common guidelines. For more than ten years, we have been waiting for the Department of Justice's follow-up to NOU 2003: 15 From bot to improvement. A few weeks ago, the government councilman Anniken Huitfeldt was here and confirmed that the Ministry of Labour and the government thought that there would still be a matter for the Stortinget, as a follow-up to this NOU. In principle, the right has no problems with infringement fees. Therefore, it is also natural for us to say that it should be the same rules in the Ship Labour Act as in the Working Environment Act. However, we will not be uncritically in favour of new fees as long as the Storting has not been presented with a thorough and good review of the matter, as the government has promised in the eight years it has been sitting. The government is not going to get blamed for the two years before that. Finally, I want to address the point of minimum pay, because there I respectfully disagree with my good friends in the Advancement Party. Me and the Right believe that a good principle in Norway is that wage formation should be free. Having a policy-determined salary violates the principle of free pay formation, and it violates the fundamental principle that pay is something negotiated between the employee and the employer, possibly between the organisations to which this work has been delegated. In addition, minimum wages have some practical problems, because it is extremely difficult to set the level correctly. If you set a minimum wage too high, you can risk having more workers competed and that it simply disappears from jobs. If you set a minimum wage too low, you risk giving a kind of low pay penalty, which employers with the law can pay by hand. Then it is better to maintain the principle of free formation of wages as a general rule in Norwegian working life. I also noticed that the representative Gullvåg for some time ago was out in Stavanger Aftenblad and talked about publishing at sea. Whether it was due to the representative or the journalist, I dare not say anything about it, but the report gave at least a misleading impression. It could look as if the representative Gullvåg promised Norwegian seafarers that there would be a public display at sea. Then it turned out when the government presented its action plan against social dumping, that this was not the case at all. What the government was supposed to do was to determine whether it was possible to have public relations at sea. To figure out if that's possible, the Right said is a good idea. Knowledge has rarely hurt someone. But then it's misleading if there's a sense that this is something government parties go for, and something that's to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2449	SV is pleased that this matter is coming, and that we are getting a more equal protection for what from now on should be called ship's workers. Like the representative Røe Isaksen, I have also recorded the somewhat heated debate on the name. I also want to say that from our side it's perfectly OK if someone still wants to call themselves a sailor, but in the text of the law it's okay that it says as it says. SV is fully committed to the statements of the rapporteur, and I see no need to repeat it. We're looking at what's happening today, not just as desirable, but as absolutely necessary. We have seen the need for this type of increased protection on land, and it is quite clear that there is a need for this type of action and for enhanced job protection and an extension of rights also for seafarers. It is gratifying that there is a broader consensus in this matter than in some other matters on these issues. I think that's fine. I also think it is good that the Progress Party and, in particular, the Right now place their principal views and opposition to some of the measures we have introduced against social dumping in the drawer. It's important, because it's about seeing the need and the desire to use the measures, and you don't have a fundamental disagreement about it. I think that's good. But I am similarly amazed at the sharp use of words when these measures have been applied in other areas of work, where it turns out to be absolutely necessary to have it in order to secure for employees the rights that we believe they should have and which are statutory under the Working Environment Act or the tariff fixed in collective bargaining agreements. And there, the public service agency has been a very important instrument, because it is right – as the representative from the Right also says – that we want a system where the social partners are setting wage levels. We want to keep that. That is why we want the public service agency to be there to secure those sectors where there is a risk of wage dumping and wage reductions, where the parties are unable to agree, or where there can be a major element of social dumping. It is therefore important that the government of the new Action Plan 3 against social dumping point to the importance of identifying the possibility of public disclosure even in shipping. But it's the social partners that deal with a public service issue. There's nothing a government unilaterally introduces in any area, it's up to the parties. In concrete terms, there is a great deal of discussion about the use of administrative fees. I think it's absolutely necessary that we use that instrument. And I think it's now a little bit up to the opposition, which is very opposed to this, to prove that it has had some particularly unfortunate effect. On the contrary, this measure is being put in place to prevent infringements of Norwegian law and infringements of collective agreements and to give those who operate unfairly a competitive advantage. Today it is extremely profitable to engage in social dumping, which is why the supervisory authorities in this area must be able to use fees more than they do today, precisely in order to prevent illegalities. If you behave according to the law, you have nothing to fear. So also the Right says that it seems like we're unilaterally listening to one party in other things, but not in this one. I am pleased that the parties to this case have agreed more. It may also have to do with the fact that the parties to this case have seen the seriousness of the situation more clearly, and have shown that they want to maintain Norwegian wage and working conditions – not only on land but also at sea. I think that is a strength for the matter. I have to say that I have reacted to the fact that the employers' side in Norway has been so critical of some of the measures against social dumping on land – precisely because the measures are available to protect the honest businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2475	The Ship Labour Act, the Maritime Working Environment Act, is a very important law for the Central Coastal Party. In this short article, I will focus solely on job protection. The coast of Norway has good conditions for shipping. The framework conditions for shipping are linked to the yard and the GIEK scheme, the compensation of seafarers and zero in company tax for shipping companies. It's about billions. The system has been successful, it has created optimism — it is a social contract with rights and obligations. What we're talking about now is the conditions of the seamen – relationships that go on between people, between people. What is happening in the labour market is crucial for the general quality of life. It's important for us to fight for Cohesion Norway, that's why this law is important. What's going on? Well, functions are split between company and formal employers, and the danger of pulverising employer responsibility is present. If the employer’s responsibility is unclear, several actors may turn away from normal obligations, whether in relation to laws, contracts or day-to-day tasks. At international speed, the division of employer tasks is a practical rule. There are three companies: ship-ownership companies, commercial companies and crew companies or crew companies. Until now, domestic shipping has been employed by the commercial shipping company. But progress is in the direction of splitting. A new example is the high-speed route, with Trygve Hegnar as a major owner, which has otherwise secured large government appropriations to the company, where one is in favour of employing its own companies outside the traditional operating company. The problem is that the manning company usually does not have commercial values, economics or decision-making power in terms of operational assessments, which is essential for the ship as a job. A formal employer can deal little with normal responsibilities, job protection and other matters that are important for the work situation on board. The government proposes joint responsibility for the shipping companies. That's good. But it is a limited joint and several liability, which does not guarantee the seafarers well enough. After the proposal, the joint and several liability of the company shall end with wages, holiday pay and any other limited financial requirements. This means that other claims against the employer arising from addition contracts or other legal grounds cannot be enforced. Claims for compensation in connection with, for example, termination, discrimination and warnings cannot therefore be required by the shipping company, despite particular features of shipping, such as the absence of an employer’s right of instruction in the workplace. Manning companies are only responsible for the formal responsibilities of the employer. In addition, the reason for the termination will often be due to the company’s relationship with the operator, not with the manning company. It is gratifying that an overall committee considers that the use of manning companies, intermediary companies and crew companies of a different nature contributes to the dilution of employers' responsibilities. Therefore, it is a minimum requirement that the employee should know who is the shipping company at any time. In particular, it is important to make the applicable joint and several liability, and therefore the obligations of the company under sections 2 to 4. Therefore, the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 2-2 of the new law states that the employer has a general obligation to inform the employee of who is the company at any time. There's an overall committee that makes the law better on this point, and that's good. Seafarers’ organisations are called upon to extend joint and several liability in addition to that contained in the government’s proposal for a new ship’s labour law. The position of seafarers' organisations is new to the third paragraph of § 2-4: «The shipowner shall be jointly and severally liable to the employer for the financial claims of the employee who has worked on the ship under the law or under the law of the law or under the terms of the contract of employment.» The centre party agrees with this, but it has not been possible to have a majority in favour of this improvement in the law. We only got the improvement in the third paragraph of Section 2-2, which was agreed by an overall committee. However, it is important to point out that all parties, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, say that when assessing rental rules, a Ministry is also asking to assess the scope of joint and several liability, including job protection. It's essential that it happens. We need solid companies that think in the long term. That's what the shipping tax is built on: the social contract with employees and the Norwegian flag, with rights and obligations. It is therefore essential that the shipping companies show that they are following this. It is crucial for the favourable framework conditions under which shipping companies base in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2508	It is very gratifying that today workers on ships are being protected by the new Ship Labour Act. Work on ships has its own peculiarities which mean that the law should not, or may, be entirely in line with the Working Environment Act, but the law should nevertheless provide a good and adequate protection for workers on ships. The Christian People's Party has essentially supported the government's proposal. The background is that account has been taken of the specific circumstances which are part of the working situation of shipboard workers. The new law contributes to the promotion of job protection for these workers, while ensuring the necessary flexibility for shipping and for the fishing industry. In order to maintain and create jobs in the shipping and fishing industries, it is essential that the legislation takes into account both flexibility on the employer’s side and sufficient protection for the worker in order to ensure predictability. In the case of the right to work on termination, the law must take account of the fact that the workplace is a 24-hour society. It is therefore essential that this right, as a starting point, does not extend beyond the duration of the negotiations, and not throughout the legal process, as the provisions of the Labour Environment Act state. Everyone's safety must be taken into account. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that working life can be combined with family life. It is therefore very important that an extension of workers' rights to leave is now adopted. A prerequisite for parents to be able to work at sea is that they, among other things: shall be entitled to freedom in the event of a child’s disease and an extended right to maternity leave. If the protection of seafarers is to be effectively strengthened, it depends on the existence of clear rules on responsibility positioning. It is therefore positive that the company's joint and several liability is now clarified by the fact that they are responsible for ensuring that the employer complies with their obligations. Shipowners will be protected by the law adopted today, which means that seafarers are granted rights equivalent to those of other workers under the Working Environment Act. That is Christian People's Party very pleased. The combination of worker protection rules and flexibility for employers is central to achieving a sustainable working life at sea. Finally, I have noticed that an old, convinced communist, Jon Michelet, is full of publicity that the well-informed concept of'seafarer' is now being changed to'shipworker'. On the one hand, it is entirely appropriate to introduce equality in the concept of shipboard workers. Of course, it does not fall naturally for a capable female ship's officer to speak of himself as a sailor. On the other hand, the good Jon Michelet probably has a point. It would not be the same if we were to talk about the ‘Norwegian Shipworker’s Church in New Orleans’ in the future, or about the ‘Norwegian Shipworker’s Association’. The word ‘seafarer’ now has a special sound in the Norwegian language. But the new concept is probably a matter of habit. I will stick hard and vote for the title of the law and the law in its entirety – as we usually do – also in this case. But in respect of generations of Norwegian sailors, the red button will probably be somewhat more tempting than usual when we're going to vote over the last part of the law decision this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2534	The draft Ship Labour Act is intended to replace the current Seafarer Act of 1975. Although the Seafarer Act has been subject to some changes since its adoption, no complete revision of the protection of seafarers’ employment law has been carried out since then. At the same time, the protection of workers on land under labour law has been strengthened during this period, in particular by the adoption of new labour law in 2005. A main consideration in the design of the Ship Labour Act has therefore been to look at the rights of other workers under the Working Environment Act and to bring up as far as possible the rights of seafarers at the same level. At the same time, there are specific issues that arise from working at sea, which both indicate that labour at sea should continue to be regulated by its own law, and that legislation should contain sufficient flexibility and adaptations to the needs of shipping and fishing fleets. It is also important to take into account that significant parts of the Norwegian fleet are exposed to competition, primarily foreign shipping and offshore. If the regulation of operations under the Norwegian flag becomes significantly different from operations under the foreign flag, Norwegian flag may be removed – with the loss of Norwegian jobs. The draft law presented by the government involves both an improvement in job protection and an extension of rights which, overall, provides a significant strengthening of the position of seafarers. At the same time, the legislative proposal substantially maintains the competitiveness of Norwegian ships engaged on international voyages. I will now briefly point to the main features of the new law. The development of job protection has been at a slower pace than for other workers. This is where the draft law will give you more improvements. Among other things, it is proposed to strengthen the right of priority, including the right of priority for part-time employees, and to propose an obligation to inform about vacancies in the establishment. The draft law proposes to continue today's general rule of permanent employment. However, it is proposed to introduce an obligation to discuss the use of temporary employment and that employees who have been employed for at least four years are entitled to permanent employment. Seafarers today have better rights than other workers in the event of incapacity for work due to sickness or injury. Shipowners have a similar financial burden in such situations as employers on land. It is proposed to maintain this special right for seafarers, but at the same time limit the employer's pay obligation to one year from disability. Furthermore, a right is proposed for seafarers to continue in the position in case of dispute as to whether a termination is illegal. The Seafarer Act does not contain rules on the protection of alerts. Although I can see that the special considerations that apply to the fact that the ship is a 24-hour society, it is in my opinion right to introduce equivalent external warning provisions to those in the Working Environment Act. The draft law also modernises and clarifies the procedural rules in accordance with the Labour Environment Act, with its own provisions on the right to require negotiations, time limits, extension and refresher, and on the legal handling of disputes concerning employment in Norway. The aim of further work has made it necessary to assess whether the 62-year limit of the Seafarer Act should be raised. Judicial practices also show that statutory age limits must be within the scope of exemption from the age limit ban under the EU Framework Directive. In my view, the general age limit should be raised to 70 years, while explicitly opening up lower limits to other grounds within the framework of the EU anti-discrimination ban. Another important strengthening of the rights in the law relates to the rights of leave. Right to leave is an important asset in a modern working life. Allowances are particularly important in order to adapt participation in working life to family and care obligations, and they have seen a gender equality page. Liability has been one of the most central, and at the same time the most difficult, issues in the design of the law. The starting point of the draft law – as under the current Maritime and Environmental Protection Act – is that it is the employer who is primarily responsible for ensuring that the requirements of the law are met by the employee. At the same time, it is the case in shipping that the employer will not always be the same as the driver of the ship. Both the international obligations and the fact that the operator is responsible for the significant risk factors on the ship and actually exercises control and control of the workers on board indicate that responsibility must also be placed with the operator of the shipowner. Firstly, an obligation is proposed for the company to ensure that the employer complies with his obligations under the law and the employment contract. Secondly, it is proposed to render the company jointly and severally liable with the employer for financial rights arising from the Act, Chapter 4. Solidarity must be seen in the context of labour hiring. The draft law does not propose any restrictions on access to rental, nor has an overall sample been proposed. From the point of view of the sample, it was concluded that the organisation of activities by shipping means that the introduction of such rules could have significant consequences. We must monitor developments in this area and assess the implementation of such provisions if the situation so warrants. The adoption of the Ship Labour Act will be a milestone for thousands of seafarers. It represents the largest reform of working and living conditions at sea of almost 40 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2575	The Ship Labour Act, which we are about to adopt today, replaces the current Seafarer Act of 1975. Some changes to the former Maritime Law have also been made, but no full revision of the protection of seafarers' labour law has been carried out. The protection of labour law for other workers has been strengthened during this period, with a new work environment law in 2005. A main consideration of the design of the Ship Labour Act has been to compare the rights of other workers under the Working Environment Act and to bring as far as possible the rights of seafarers to the same level. At the same time, there are specific issues that arise from working at sea. It suggests that labour at sea should continue to be regulated by its own law and that legislation should contain sufficient flexibility and adaptations to the needs of shipping and fishing industries. The legislative proposal adopted today involves both an improvement in the protection of workers and an extension of rights, which, overall, provides a significant strengthening of the position of seafarers. At the same time, the legislative proposal maintains the competitiveness of Norwegian ships engaged in international voyages. There is now an increase in the retirement age of seafarers from 62 to 70 years, so that those who want to work longer. The law also expands and clarifies people's rights to leave. We now strengthen the right of employees to discuss with, and information from, the employer. The shipowner is jointly and severally responsible for ensuring that everyone on board receives the salary they are entitled to. The legislative committee gave a unanimous opinion that the title ‘seafarer’ in the legal text is replaced by ‘worker’. It is probably the side of the revision that has received the most attention in the media — as has been said here in the past. Many people think that in maritime Norway it is unheard of that one should no longer be able to call oneself a seafarer. Now it's not like we're going to bring sanctions against those who are going to call themselves sailors to the future. We get a gender neutral, new terminology that is more inclusive for female seafarers, for it should no longer be called “pregnant seafarer”, as it is now in the legal text, § 13. A legal text shall be as unambiguous and neutral as possible. That's why I think this change is an adaptation to the modern working life we have, where women like men work like sailors. If they want to use the title ‘seafarer’ around themselves, it is still fully possible. The word “seafarer” has been an honorary term, and the historical meaning of it is no one who will take away. We regulate the rest of the working life as an employee and an employer. So, when we have a review in 2013, it's quite natural to also talk about working life at sea in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2590	The shipping industry has always been close to my heart, and I am therefore pleased that the professions linked to this industry have gradually become more equal to other professions. In many ways, the rules and laws of this group of workers have been side by side with other occupational groups. That's why I find it unfortunate that the discussion about the gender neutral concepts has overshadowed all the other important things for the seafarers who are in this matter. Otherwise, in their professional life, they have managed to find gender-neutral job descriptions, and I am sure that both county councillors, county councillors and employees will be replaced over time. I am in any case very pleased that several women now work both on the deck and in the machine, and both as officers and in other types of jobs on board. I have no doubt that it is the improvement in employees' rights in general and for shipping in particular that has given this fine effect. Society and equality are also moving forward in the shipping industry, and we should be pleased about that. Fortunately, the time of one and two years of absence from the home of seafarers has passed, and family members at sea have had a more normal family life. The main reason Norway has been and is a major shipping nation is primarily our proximity to the sea and the very skilled seafarers that Norway has bred over many, many generations. That's what we have to take care of first and foremost. For me it seems that the opposition today has many fine words about the importance of shipping and about the importance of having Norwegian seafarers, but when it comes to the whole, the opposition's policy cracks in all directions. This is not good for the shipping nation, for the shipping industry and for those planning a future in these professions. I think that the rapporteur described this in a good way in his statement. I also think this lack of overall maritime opposition policy is well described in the latest issue of the Seafarers’ Official Journal – Maritime Log. This also naturally shows that the organisations of the seafarers have the greatest confidence in the red-green policy. Although the Committee has found itself together in parts of this matter, we know that if there were to be another large majority for the autumn, much of the maritime policy could be put into play. The shipping nation of Norway cannot afford it in any way. I see in the newspapers that shipowner John Fredriksen believes that shipping is dying in Norway for reasons of competence, but that he will come back to Norway again if the right parties, with party leader Solberg at the head, receive control after the fall. My claim is that this shipowner speaks against better knowledge, but that it is enough his refusal to contribute to the community here in Norway, which is the main reason why he says what he says. I find it sad that the maritime competence in Norway is being talked down in such a way. We should have asked ourselves this. This is something Norwegian seafarers should be aware of, because it is highly concerned with them and their professional pride.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2613	I have noticed that several of the representatives who have taken part in this debate have compared seamen and statesmen. Let me then say that I am not as sure whether pregnancy is equally relevant for the latter profession. It was basically Røe Isaksen's comment on public disclosure that enabled me to note that public disclosure is an institute that we use to legislate tariffs when necessary. When the government says that it wants to assess the publicisation of tariffs in the maritime sector, it is because there is a lot of talk that it is necessary to have the formation of wages regulated by a public service law. Similarly, I guess it's when the Right wants to investigate NIS on the coast: I guess you want to investigate it because the Right believes it's relevant to introduce NIS into parts of or throughout Norwegian domestic shipping. But I understand that the Right wants to clarify the consequences of such an introduction. For the rest of us, they're pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2622	It is in itself commendable that the government wants to investigate. I believe that some of the reasons why the government wants to investigate the public sector at sea, and formulates itself in this way, are that significant legal problems are encountered by introducing a public service system – as we have in some industries on land – at sea, among others. because Norway is bound by some international agreements that we do not have in land-based industry. The only thing I noticed was that in the essay in Stavanger Aftenblad, where the representative Gullvåg was present – he also looked well on the picture, summer fresh and fine – it left the impression that this was something the government was supposed to do. Yes, it was almost presented as if this were the government's policy, and that they would make proposals about it, while the government then put forward a proposal on something quite different, namely to investigate the consequences. Then either the journalist has exaggerated, or the representative has taken his mouth too full. Then I have to say that it is a little special to be accused of it cracking in the opposition, when a representative from the government parties used a double side in today's business to tell him that he would vote against the government's own proposal. We are then four parties in the opposition who agree on almost everything in this message, but not on absolutely everything. That's now one thing. We will certainly be able to agree on this field as well. But that the government parties are going to accuse the opposition of cracking when they don't even manage to stay together, I think mildly said is special.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2629	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2643	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2652	The new News of Storing, Between Heaven and Earth: Norwegian space activities for nutrition and utility are well received by business operators and knowledge environments in connection with the industry. The last time the government asked Stortinget to decide on the overall strategy for Norwegian space activities was in connection with St.meld. No 13 for 1986–1987 – 26 years ago. During these years, the importance of space activities for society has been evolving. Services based on the use of satellites have become an important part of our everyday lives, ranging from taxi ordering to advanced offshore operations. The Norwegian space effort can show many success stories, such as: the Norwegian AIS satellite technology. Our strength lies in industrial niches and in the use of space-based services. In the Committee there is broad agreement on Norwegian space policy across party boundaries. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in its work on the communication. Norwegian space policy has always been useful. Space activities have not been an objective in themselves, but a tool to take care of Norwegian interests. In view of this, public efforts have mainly been aimed at promoting high-tech value creation in Norwegian industry, and at meeting concrete needs related to communication, navigation and Earth observation. There are three main factors that may require adjustment of Norwegian policies. The first is changes in technology. Technological developments have widened the scope for what can be done with space-based technology over a few years. The second relationship that will help shape Norwegian space policy in the years to come is changes in Norway’s needs. The third relationship that will determine the direction and scope of the years ahead is changes in the international organisations that constitute the backbone of Norwegian space activities. Space activities are increasingly a prerequisite for maintaining our role as a major maritime nation, a northern region, a technology nation and an environmental nation. Space activities shall continue to be a tool for Norwegian interests and the Communication sets out four objectives for this work: profitable enterprises, growth and employment, coverage of key societal and user needs, better exploitation of international cooperation on space activities and good national management of Norwegian space activities. In the Communication, the Government signals that, in line with other economic domains, it will be assessed whether there is a need for an arena project for space-related research and industrial development — an NCE programme in the long term. The government will also continue the space research programme to the Norwegian Research Council. Our participation in the European Space Agency, ESA, is crucial for Norwegian space activities. The Committee is pleased that the government will pursue a proactive policy to safeguard Norwegian interests in EU space programmes and work to ensure that Copernicus and Galileo are well-performing over Norwegian areas of interest. The Committee also expects active policy to be pursued in order to safeguard Norwegian interests in Galileo and Copernicus. The Committee supports the Government's continued strategic, coordinating and executive role of the Norwegian Space Centre to ensure the effective exploitation of space, in the interests of Norwegian society. The geographical advantage of Norway in the mainland and elsewhere where Norwegian space-related ground infrastructure is operated has been used for a long time to build up activities that currently have internationally leading positions in some niches of space activities. This applies, inter alia, to: Andya Rockett Shooter Field and satellite reading stations in polar orbits from Svalbard, Jan Mayen and Antarctica. Good satellite solutions to meet Norwegian needs are one of the key objectives of Norwegian space activities. An important challenge in the years to come will be to facilitate access for Norwegian authorities and users to the space-based infrastructure necessary for the safe, sustainable and efficient use of, among others. the northern regions. Activities in the north and the Arctic are increasing, and offshore industry is moving further and further into the Arctic. Reduced ice deployment is in the process of making shipping routes along the Arctic Ocean commercially interesting. Safe, efficient and sustainable use of natural resources and shipping in the North and Arctic regions depend to a large extent on the use of satellite-based infrastructure. Communication, navigation and monitoring based on satellites have become essential for the performance of safety-related and emergency-related authority tasks such as maritime rescue, oil preparedness and crisis management. The use of satellites implies new and cost-effective opportunities to address the vulnerability of society. The Committee also points out that the interaction between satellites and unmanned aeroplanes has a high potential to become an important tool for society in such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2690	The last time the government asked the Stortinget to decide on an overall strategy for Norwegian space activities was in 1987, at the time of the presentation of St.meld. No 13 for 1986–1987, on Norwegian space activities. Very much has of course happened since that time. As the rapporteur pointed out, satellite services have become part of the everyday lives of the Nordics. Norway has shot up its first satellite. Norway has become a significant participant in ESA. Last year we committed ourselves to attend with almost 145 million. the euro in the ESA development programmes. We have also joined the EU space programmes Galileo and Copernicus and cooperate with Canada on radar satellites. Not least, we have had a strong Norwegian industry development where Norwegian companies have developed a strong position within several niches of space-related technology. At the same time, we see that the framework conditions for Norwegian space activities are changing. Technological developments have shifted the boundaries of what can be done with space technology. It is becoming more cost-effective and the technological space for action is increasing. Norway also faces new challenges in many areas that satellite-based systems can play a central role in solving: environment and climate, maritime activity, and offshore activities in the north — to name a few. The international framework for space activities is also changing sharply. Therefore, the government thought it was time for Norwegian space policy to be re anchored in Stortinget. Through this Communication, we want to provide the basis for a policy that will ensure that Norway receives the greatest possible benefit from space activities in the years to come. Efforts at space activities have served Norway well. The main features of Norwegian space policy will therefore be continued. Norwegian space activities have always been useful. That's what it's going to be. The main purpose of Norwegian space activities shall be to provide tools to safeguard Norwegian interests. In its Communication, the Government proposes a number of measures to help Norway make the most of space activities. We'll always be dependent on international cooperation to get good space-based solutions in an efficient way. Cooperation through ESA will continue to be the backbone of Norwegian space deployment, but we also need to cooperate with the EU, and – where necessary – other countries and organisations. We have set four objectives for Norwegian space activities: profitable enterprises, growth and employment, addressing key societal and user needs, making better use of international cooperation in space good national space management. We will continue to work in the future to look at concrete measures that can help achieve these objectives. In the last ten years, space has become increasingly a prerequisite for value creation and sustainability, and for the ability of the North to live good and comfortable lives. This Communication provides the basis for us to be able to take care of Norway’s interests in space activities in the coming years, both as a business area and not least the benefits of all the knowledge gained from space-based investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2734	As a result of climate change, there appears to be an increasing possibility of using the north-east passenger as a new route for ship traffic in the future. It's a problem that there's very poor satellite coverage north of 75 degrees north – it's mentioned in the message. This makes it difficult to obtain regularity in ship traffic. In the opinion of the Council of State, more targeted cooperation will be needed, including: with Russia, to provide a better satellite coverage that will facilitate ship traffic through the north-east pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2741	It is very clear that to get adequate coverage of infrastructure for both navigation, communication and environmental monitoring, there are satellites that are the answer in the north. Then you have to have more satellites that go in a north-south runway, because the equatorial satellites don't cover far enough north. Plans for deploying more satellites and better coverage in these areas are being designed, and we will take an active part in it as far as our budgets are concerned. This is an area of great interest to us, and where Russia can be a partner, but I think others too will be interested in that kind of bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2748	This is a matter in which, fortunately, the Committee agrees. What is a little debate about are resources for research. NIFU’s annual report shows that there is no increase in the real allocation of research from 2011 to 2012, while government partners say there has been an increase. It could therefore be exciting to hear what the Council of State says about this matter. Has there been a real increase — I underline a real increase — or has it been a ‘stand city’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2755	At least in terms of space deployment, there's definitely been a huge increase. So, as far as I remember, it's a triple since we took over in 2005. So it can vary a little from year to year how the money is distributed, for example. based on the international programmes in which we participate. But that space has been an important area for the government, especially in international cooperation, there can be no doubt about the budgets available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2760	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2776	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2785	This paper is about intangible values and addresses a business policy and innovation policy perspective. The message presents a policy to contribute to a more conscious and strategic use of intangible values and rights in business and in the public sector. All over the world there is a sharp increase in the number of registered dishes. At the same time, measurements indicate that Norwegian enterprises use intangible rights less than those in other countries. Studies suggest that there may be a need for more information about and more focus on intellectual property rights in this country. However, it is not certain that all intellectual property rights may or should be formally protected. Some innovations do not meet the requirements for registration. But neither is it where legal protection is possible, it is always the best way to value commercial and social interests. It will vary from industry to industry and from one type of innovation to another. I did not consider all the specific proposals mentioned by the Committee in its comments, but the setting shows that there is a broad consensus on the measures presented in the Storing Communication. For business, it is important to have a functional regulatory framework for the protection of intellectual property rights. The government will continue to develop legislation in this area in order to ensure good commercial conditions for business, and the Committee supports the proposals put forward here. It is important to increase the knowledge of intellectual property rights both in business and in the rest of society. The Government proposes several measures to improve training in this area. It includes action at all levels, from Young Entrepreneurship in primary and secondary school to research education. The government will further develop the Patent Board, both as a manager and as a centre of expertise. The government also proposes to set up a guidance and advice centre for small and medium-sized enterprises. As you know, SMEs are often tired of knowing how to handle intellectual property rights in a complex legal system. The EU has adopted a regulation on medicinal products for children. This Regulation should provide an incentive to increase research in this area. The purpose of the Government is to include the Regulation in the EEA Agreement and to implement it in Norwegian law as quickly as possible. In policy development, as in other important areas, it is important to have good and relevant knowledge. We need more knowledge about the link between the protection of intellectual property rights and its implications for innovation and value creation. The government will continue to work on that. With this I recommend the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2806	Set here the setting for Separate Notifications. Paragraph 28 is a unanimous committee, and there are no other proposals either. For the Progress Party is, among other things, The activities of the Patent Board are very important in promoting innovation. The Progress Party has also pointed this out in various cases in the past. It is very positive that the Committee and the Government want to further develop the Patent Board, both as a management body and as a centre of excellence, as the Progress Party has long intended. Another thing the Progress Party will point out in this case is the extent of piracy and counterfeiting. This is very increasing — unfortunately — and leads to serious companies being hit and, in the worst case, to bankruptcy. The Progress Party therefore welcomes the establishment of a website with information on this and associated cooperation between authorities. Piracy and counterfeiting should and must be suppressed. Otherwise, the Progress Party agrees that the knowledge of intellectual property needs to be increased both in business and in the rest of society. Finally, of course, the Progress Party will support Norway's participation in international agreements and will constantly update legislation and arrangements. This is a prerequisite for being perceived as a serious partner of our countries of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2819	As the rapporteur said, it is a matter of a unanimous committee, so it is not so much aberration. But the right has some notes. We also show that in 2006, the EU adopted a regulation on medicinal products for children and that the government of the Report. Article 28 states that it aims to introduce the Regulation in Norwegian law as soon as possible. In the right, we believe it is positive that the government is now signaling the rapid implementation of the paediatric regulation, which we have committed to before. We find reason to point out that, despite six years of negotiations between the EU and the EEA, there appears to be no quick solution to the challenges associated with having the economic sanctioning authority of this Regulation. Therefore, pending national legal implementation, we consider that it is appropriate to consider imposing provisional measures to demonstrate that the Norwegian authorities recognise the intention of the legislation and the importance of market exclusivity as a necessary incentive for research and development. One solution may be that medicinal products that have completed the study programme are not included in the exchange list/step price before six months after the expiry of the patent. In addition, I would like to point out that, in the context of the Right’s proposal for a long-term strategy for biomedicine, Document 8:48 S for 2010–2011, it was proposed that a case be brought before the Stortinget on the legal status of the exchange of medicinal products – biological medicinal products in particular – where, among other things, the dossier. explain how the government considers the legal situation to be and should be, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2830	Report. St. 28, Unique Ideas, High Values – on Intangible Values and Rights – were presented to the Stortinget on April 12, 2013. Here the government presents a long-term policy to contribute to greater strategic, conscious and profitable use of intangible values and rights in Norwegian business and research. By providing such a good framework for increasing innovation, the Communication shall contribute to the objectives of industrial policy for the maximum overall value creation in the Norwegian economy and work for all. International economic conditions and framework conditions change rapidly, in which case the management of intangible assets and rights must also be changed. In particular, the number of intellectual property rights registered internationally is increasing. In emerging economies, businesses are increasingly securing such rights. International trade and cooperation also often involve the management of intellectual property rights. Developments increase the need for competence and awareness of the management of intellectual property rights as a strategic tool in the development of Norwegian business. It also increases the need for up-to-date legislation adapted to the economic reality of business. The future competitiveness of Norway depends on resilient businesses and workers putting into service and building more knowledge and technology into products. This includes, inter alia: that establishments must have an awareness and competence of intangible values. When intangible values become economically important, they also have a greater impact on industrial policy. Analysis of the communication shows that very many in Norway do not protect their innovations, that piracy is widespread also in Norway and affects Norwegian businesses, that the competence and awareness of the subject area is likely to be too low in parts of Norwegian business, in the academia, in health businesses, in the instrumentation, in public authorities and most of the people. Lack of competence and awareness may have serious consequences. This could lead to lower competitiveness and loss of earnings for businesses, to their innovations being copied by competitors, to their responsibility for interference with the rights of others, or to their being perceived as less attractive partners. Therefore, the challenge of competence needs to be taken seriously, and therefore it is a central element of the Communication. We've had a lot of work on the message to get recordings from many teams. I believe that the Communication has a good mix of entirely concrete, immediate and longer-term actions within a broad range of areas of action. Important instruments include improved training provision, further development of the Patenary Board, regulatory improvement, combating piracy and counterfeiting, and enhanced knowledge base. We are pleased that the main features of the message have received good support in Stortinget, and we are happy to work on the follow-up of an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2853	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2867	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2876	The representative proposal from the representatives of the big business Steinar Reiten, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on measures to strengthen the Norwegian industry has a disturbing backbone; we see a clear division of Norwegian industry. While traditional industries are struggling heavily, oil and offshore related activities have experienced formidable growth. While total production in the Norwegian workshop industry has increased significantly since 2005, there has been no growth in other Norwegian industry, and many industries are struggling. The hourly wage in the Norwegian industry is today about 70 pst. higher than our trading partners, and Norway has a lower level of innovation than our competitors. Where, in the years 2001–05, Norway had a high annual productivity growth of 3 pst. Annually, and higher than our trading partners, Norway has had a low productivity growth of 0.5 p.p. in the years between 2006 and 2011 and lower than that of our trading partners. So our competitiveness is significantly weakened, and we see a significant decline. Where government parties have accused the opposition of black paint when we have pointed out the challenges for Norwegian companies, we are now recording a broad acceptance of the challenge picture. The government also seems to recognize that we cannot continue as before. When the so-called growth package was presented in the context of the 2013 revised budget, Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said that we must ‘build scandals before the war comes’. This is the broad consensus. What is unfortunate is that, on a number of occasions, government parties have voted in favour of proposals on, for example: strengthening the depreciation rules and the FUNN Tax Scheme. The Government has reduced the tax FUNN scheme by 150 million. kr in the 2007 government budget, and since then the government parties have voted against the proposal to reverse the tightening. When the government now announces that in the 2014 budget it will strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme by 100 million. So it's still less than the tightening up in 2007. In the light of the government’s own concern about the need to better equip the Norwegian economy, it is strange that the government will first in the 2014 budget specify the measures in the growth package. The proposal for a representative will include: Note that the strange wealth tax leads to some companies having to make dividends, even in bad times. It is also stressed that industry needs good, stable and predictable framework conditions. I refer to the fact that the draft representative points out that in the last five years the tax authorities have implemented a hidden increase in the tax on production businesses by tightening down the depreciation rules. The proposal highlights the fact that Norway has long industrial traditions, and we can agree on this. If we are to maintain Norwegian industry, it is important that the necessary measures are taken quickly. I will refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and consider it... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2895	It is an important topic we are discussing here today, because, as has been said by the case-speaker, industry has long and proud traditions in Norway. It is true that much of the industry competes in an international market, as stated in this Document 8. And then it's weird that the Right does not dare to put your foot down and stand on it when it comes to government cooperation with the Progress Party building on the rule of action. A robust economic policy that does not see interest and interest rates under pressure through decisions — and because of a lack of understanding of the meaning of the rule of action — is, of course, alpha and omega for industry in general and for the export industry in particular. There is just a stable, safe and prudent economic policy for enterprises around Norway that are particularly concerned about job security and the closure of business, and there can be no guarantee that this will happen. Industry must still be an important part of the Norwegian economy. That's what we mean in the red-green government, and there's been a series of measures for the land-based industry, the latest in RNB, with a growth package for business and a package of measures for the forest sector. I would also like to draw up a number of other important schemes in which the government has delivered to industry: the Climate Technology Fund, the industrial power guarantee scheme, the quota market in line with the EEA and EU, a CO2 compensation scheme, pre-Enova schemes to support recycling and energy efficiency improvement, and the consortium scheme. The Labour Party is pleased that the government has taken action to help the land-based industry by, among other things. to lower the corporate tax and increase the first year depreciation by 10 pst. to 30 pst. At the same time, we have dense tax havens for groups and changed so that the petroleum industry pays more into the community. The majority of the Norwegian people didn't think anything special about the wealthiest of them letting go of paying taxes, and there's going to be a big difference between people. An exemption from the property tax would have given 15 billion. kr less to the community and more than 32,000 people would have been zero-tax payers. In addition, 10 of these 15 billion go straight to the municipalities – to maintain the Norwegian model with a good welfare society. Norwegian industry is at the forefront when it comes to technology development. The new Climate and Energy Fund, managed by Enova, is important here, and it is also Innovation Norway's environmental technology system, which contributes to the development and investment of businesses. The green certificate scheme also increases the focus on renewable energy. Norway is also in a special position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2915	I am promoting the proposal again, because I am somewhat uncertain whether the President got it with him when the representative Torgeira Dahl was here instead. There is no doubt that parts of Norwegian industry are struggling, and that the rest of Norwegian industry has a number of daily challenges to survive in a tough market in competition with foreign companies. There is a so-called bi-dividual in this picture, where the part of industry and service-related activities based on oil and gas activities makes good money, while the more land-based business is the most difficult. Nor is there any doubt that the strange level of taxes and taxes makes the Norwegian industry more difficult than its foreign competitors. This is Södra Cell at Tofte, an example of where the owners clearly say that the Norwegian cost level is too high. There are many ways in which politicians can help Norwegian industry, and reducing strange taxes is, of course, part of this. The second is to look at the legislation in general in order to achieve a more flexible system in which there is room for individual enterprises, individual owners and individual workers to find a solution that ensures the workplace and the enterprise. Norwegian industry needs good, stable and predictable framework conditions. It makes the owners know what the future looks like and that they can make their investments out of it. It also helps to ensure that the next generation wants to take over and develop the company further. This predictability is found to a lesser extent today, and many of the young people find other, more exciting jobs. This is particularly true in the so-called land-based industry. Document 8:71 for 2012–2013 gives us, as politicians, the opportunity to vote for a proposal to review Norwegian industry’s framework conditions, including depreciation rules, and to propose measures to ensure that Norwegian companies maintain competitiveness. The party of progress believes it is very strange and it is a pity that the parties of government will not take part in this proposal. If there is something that Norway needs, it needs, among other things. an industry where there is growth and optimism, and where workers are confident that the workplace will be there tomorrow. The Progress Party is of the opinion that looking at other countries that have succeeded in their industrial policy can benefit Norwegian industry. Obtaining inspiration from others will always benefit those who take this to heart. Finally, the Progress Party will point to the SkattenFUNN scheme as very positive for Norwegian industry. We believe that increased frames here will create growth and positive signals. It's a shame the government parties haven't seen and understood this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2934	Yes, the president was somewhat uncertain whether the proposal was taken up by the first speaker. The proposal is addressed here, as Mr Bredvold referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2937	SV has long pointed out that the inflated level of investment in the oil sector leads to a pressure in the Norwegian economy, which makes it necessary for other parts of Norwegian business to obtain skilled labour and risk capital. Now it's probably also true that the Right is talking about the two-part division of the Norwegian economy, but they're the most busy of the one part of the two-part division. The right is concerned with stimulating land-based business, as the government has also contributed to the revised national budget, but I do not hear much about what Right intends to do to dampen the pressure in the oil economy, in the oil sector. If they are concerned about the two-part economy, I expect that they also have a sense of what is going to happen, what kind of action they think we are going to take to mitigate the pressure in the oil economy – whether they will support the government's proposals in the revised national budget, whether they have other proposals, or whether they have an illusion that it is sufficient to stimulate the land-based industry without taking action to dampen the pressure in the oil industry, which attracts offshore industry. It would be a little interesting to hear if the two-part economy is something you should attack from both sides and not just from the one, which will be less successful. So it's typical for the Right that they talk a lot about taxes. It is well and good, but the most important point to preserve and strengthen Norwegian business is competence. I've been at a lot of seminars among business people lately, around and visited a lot of businesses, and without comparison, there's one point that's being pointed out as the most important thing because we still have a competitive power in Norwegian business, and that's the kind of competence that we have. In Norway, we are committed to having competence at all levels of the organisation. We have a workforce in Norway that is able to cooperate vertically and horizontally across all trade boundaries. We have a workforce that's used to taking responsibility, so we don't have a hierarchical level, and when we're going to develop a complicated project, we don't let it delay because the vertical structures take too long and increase the cost level. The reason why we have a system like this is because we have a good common ground in Norway. If we were to get the system we're talking about, where we're going to have to go further, we're going to tear away the foundation under the competitiveness of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2952	A good thing can't be said too often. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. Since the red-green government took over in 2005, 345,000 more jobs have been created – two thirds of them in the private sector – and employment growth in almost all industries. The government has recently produced the Business Message Abundance of Winners. The Communication points out that in shaping the future industrial policy, there are the pillars of the Norwegian economy that need to be highlighted in particular. Such supports include: financial and monetary policy and the rule of action, the system we have for the use of labour and wage formation, education and skills, the capacity for innovation and our ability to convert. The absolute most important thing for Norwegian industry in general and export-oriented industry in particular is a stable, secure and predictable economic policy that does not put interest and exchange rates under pressure through political decisions and lack of understanding of the importance of the rule of action. We are therefore pleased that the government is pursuing a responsible economic policy underpinning economic policy. We note with concern that not all parties end up on this fundamental principle of future economic growth in Norwegian business. Safe and predictable economic governance is also what most companies believe is the most important criterion for business success and job security. The parties argue that industry remains an important part of the Norwegian economy, and the government has put in place a number of measures for the land-based industry, at the latest in the 2013 RNB, with a business growth package and a package of measures for the forest sector. In order to further stimulate investment in the mainland industry, the government proposes to introduce initial write-offs for operating funds in balancing group d, machines etc., with 10 pst. This means that the depreciation rate for the first year of life of the means of operation is increased from 20 pst. to 30 pst. The depreciation rates should reflect the fair impairment of the operating assets. Norwegian industry is at the forefront of technology development. These include: establish a new climate and energy fund managed by Enova and Innovation Norway's eco-technology scheme contributes to the development and investment of environmental technologies in enterprises. The Green Certificate Scheme is also in place, and all of this means that more emphasis is placed on renewable energy. The centre party has had a strong commitment to the powerful industry, and we are very pleased that the government in the autumn could present a compensation scheme for CO2. The scheme shall compensate for the CO2 surcharge in the power price. The centre party is very concerned about facilitating this type of industry, and this compensation mechanism is therefore a breakthrough for our way of thinking. This scheme, together with several schemes, is particularly important for these enterprises, which are cornerstones of their communities. These enterprises account for a large number of jobs and value creation in the districts, so this is also good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2977	Active enterprise policy is essential to create values and jobs across the country. Norway is benefiting greatly from a strong profitable oil industry, which allows it to strengthen the state budget every year. At the same time, large parts of industry compete in an international market. Conditions in Norway, which are designed to be completely different from those of foreign operators, may impair the competitiveness of enterprises and may result in the closure or displacement of operations by newly established capacity in better-performing countries. There are a number of areas where Norwegian special schemes and rules weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. The extraordinary wealth tax is an example of that. As a result of the taxes on wealth, many enterprises make more profits to owners in order to finance owners' property taxes. Especially is the family-owned company with spread ownership. In addition, it dampens the appetite for investment in production equipment and favours investment in real estate. It is an additional tax on Norwegian capital compared to capital owned by the rest of the world. Most countries Norway usually compares with Norway have abolished the wealth tax. In OECD countries, only France, Switzerland, Spain, Iceland and Norway have taxes on wealth. Of these, Norway has the weakest protection mechanisms for industrial wealth, or so-called working capital. An exemption from property taxes on working capital will remove the tax discrimination that Norwegian private owners have relatively compared to public owners and foreign owners today. It will stimulate national private ownership. It will thus remove the competitive disadvantage that the Norwegian capital market has for domestic investors. Industry and other industries need stable framework conditions to ensure further development. In particular, in the case of initial investment. Any uncertainty contributes to the risk that lowers the return on initial investment, production and research. In Norway, there is too much tendency for framework conditions to change from year to year. Enterprises are exposed to the removal of research funds overnight, the re-interpretation of tax rules such as SkattenFUNN, new taxes and changed plans for the environment and climate. This is unfortunate and contributes to lower investment and less profitable business. During the 1990s, there were few changes in the framework conditions for business in Norway. It contributed to a strong recovery in investment and employment in industry and other value added. Over the last 15 years, there have been a number of changes in industrial framework conditions from year to year. For example: Sweden introduced a Green Electricity Certificate for Renewable Power Development in 2003, Norway spent the years until 2012 on a number of different schemes, before Norway finally joined the Swedish electricity certificate market in 2012. The result has been a significant increase in Swedish investment in wind power from 2005, while Norwegian investment has been very low, mainly due to uncertainty about the framework conditions from year to year. I believe this shows, among other things: the need for better and more stable and predictable framework conditions. I hereby promote the proposals of the Christian People's Party as they proceed from the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2990	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e2993	Industry is an important part of Norwegian business. It is part of a highly adaptable and productive Norwegian business that has made us one of the richest countries in the world over a few generations. The Government's objective is that industry should continue to be an important part of the Norwegian economy. That's the last thing we're going to say in the Report. Article 39 on industrial policy towards 2020. Profitable, efficient and resilient industrial enterprises, regardless of industry, are important contributors to maintaining the welfare society through the efficient production of profitable products. Industry also contributes to significant indirect employment effects and provides a basis for other industrial activities. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and we have growth in a situation where the euro area has gone back six quarters in a row. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges. Global competition is becoming increasingly difficult, and there is a challenging situation in the European economy. We are also vulnerable to what is happening in Europe. We are part of the European continent – 70 pst. of our exports to the EEA territory. It is not a problem that the petroleum-oriented industry is doing well, but the government wants to preserve a diversity of industries. The level of costs in Norway means that we must constantly be at the forefront in terms of skills, technology and productivity. The new industrial notification is also an industrial notification. Here the government stresses that it will pursue an active policy for a diverse industry in Norway. For industry, it is the sum total of the framework conditions that are essential to trigger conversion, growth and value creation for the rest of industry. In shaping the overall economic policy of the government, consideration for the competitive industry is important. In the revised national budget in May, the government presented a growth package with important measures to make industry and business even more competitive. The aim of the measures is to increase the profitability of industry and to stimulate investment in mainland enterprises. The growth package consists of several elements, including: reduction in corporation tax, increased depreciation rates and 100 million. kr to SkattenFUNN, which makes it more profitable to invest and to invest in skills and innovation in Norwegian enterprises. The government has implemented various power measures that are important for industry. We have an offensive policy to address climate change with new instruments. We have a CO2 compensation system in place for the industry to ensure that we have a competitive powerful industry. We have set up a new climate technology scheme under Enova with a 50-billion-dollar framework. kr, and we have a large instrument to meet business needs and contribute to innovation and long-term competitiveness, so that the outstanding good development in Norway can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3012	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3015	In the nations of February 21, this year, we read the following: «Norwegian cost level scares South Cell away from Tofte.» Then there will be a simple question to the Council of State: Is the Norwegian level of costs including taxes so high that we are competing away from the foreign market?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3025	An overall economic analysis shows the opposite: a growth business, an employment growth in private business of around 250,000 more workers since 2005, a profit-making business that contributes to a good trade balance and growth in GDP. But that single industries are struggling, we see. The wood industry has been one of these. Firstly, we are talking about structural changes where, among other things: uses less newsprint than before. But it is also about an industry affected by the economic crisis in Europe, where demand for products has been low for a while, and overcapacity is high. This is why we have seen both in Sweden and Norway the closure of traditional and good industrial establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3030	My question goes to the SkattenFUNN scheme. I think that is a broad recognition that the SkattenFUNN scheme has been a success. It has been simple, flexible and relatively unbureaucratic. Then the government made a decision in connection with the 2007 state budget and reduced by 150 million annually. kr. I now register that you see that you have to increase, and you increase by 100 million. kr. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there are activities that could have benefited from the implementation of projects co-financed by the SkattenFUNN scheme, and that would thus be better equipped today to meet some more challenging times?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3035	There are certainly companies that would have benefited from increased appropriations in many areas of a government budget. However, at the same time, very many particularly competitive businesses would have been harmed by a government budget that did not take into account the overall competitive parameters, such as the demand for the Norwegian economy, interest rates and exchange rates, so that Norwegian industry could compete with other countries. So yes, for each of the micro-areas, you might want more money. Large transport investments and large research appropriations help business. But the sum must be such that the basic competitive environment is in place. This is always a balance, but I agree that the tax FUNN is a good, effective and unbureaucratic system. That's also why the growth package announced that we want to strengthen that scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3042	In yesterday's edition of Today's Business, there is an interview with NHO's Department Director, Dag Årnes, who assumes that the NHO's market index has fallen from 18 to 8 pst. from the first to the second quarter of this year. As a comment to it, Aarnes says: ‘With an index that reaches eight, we’re very close to it stopping completely. An index of four for market outlooks indicates that this may last for a while». He also comments on what appears to be an almost total investment drought in the Norwegian competitive industry, saying: ‘Now it’s being invested very little. Industrial investment is at a level likely to lead to a decline in industry». And on the other hand, ‘We have the impression that there is a weather scenario going on in the sense that production capacity is going down’. How does the Council of State get this to go along with its repeated claims that there is such a problem in the Norwegian competitive industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3062	I think you have to see two pictures at the same time. One picture that this government has been very concerned about since the financial crisis hit us in the fall of 2008, is that Norway is part of an international economy in deep crisis. In the EU, 27 million people are now unemployed. GDP has fallen in the euro area six quarters in a row. Our main trading partners are struggling with high unemployment and lack of growth. You have to go no further than to Sweden to find a unemployment rate above 8 p.m., and where the situation is such that every fourth youth goes out of work. In this situation, it must be possible to say that Norway — with unemployment down to 3 p.m., with continuous strong growth, with good economic development — has been outstanding. At the same time, we must warn against being invulnerable. We are going to notice the effects of the European crisis and have to prepare for it, among other things. through the growth package presented in the revised national budget – a responsible economic policy with an industrial policy that brings about innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3067	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3070	3 minutes is short time, and it was a little bit scarce last time. I perceive that it is registered that all the proposals have been taken up. The debate shows that there are questions about the rules of action and the extent to which a responsible economic policy, which promotes competitiveness, provides good framework conditions and at the same time has a long-term perspective. I think that the Right is known for being responsible for fiscal policy. I also think that the Right is known for being a business-friendly party. Then there's a point, which has also been mentioned in the debate, which concerns the two-way division of business, that some parts of the business go fantastically well, while others wear considerably. We see a negative productivity trend, that is. that it is lower than that of our trading partners. The fact that the macro image is extremely positive can easily make us not see the rather serious challenges for traditional industry. That is what I feel is at the heart of this proposal for a representative: how can we help to create sustainability for the traditional industry in Norway? We think it would be wise to have a complete review, an overall review, of the whole instrument to the traditional Norwegian industry. We think it's necessary. Then it's important that we are long-term in our attitudes. That's exactly why we think it's unfortunate that you just take individual instruments without thinking completely. That's the background to our proposals: let's get a complete review, and let's make sure that Norwegian business doesn't have a competitive disadvantage, as we see, for example. in the case of property taxes on working capital, as the Christian People's Party refers to in this proposal for a representative. We would like such an overall review. We see that the government parties do not feel necessary. We'll take note of that, but there may be new times after September. Then we will see how we can facilitate a more sustainable development for the entire Norwegian business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3087	I just have a few brief comments on the debate. The representative Hegø, who questioned the Right's ability to manage the responsibility financially. The right is a guarantor of responsible economic policy. It was actually Right with Per-Kristian Foss in the Ministry of Finance that facilitated the economic growth of the red-green government when they took over in 2005. So successful was the policy that the editor of the Newspaper, Arne Strand, said that never has a government gone to such a well-covered table. When Arne Strand dares to boast of the Right, then it is worth listening to him. To the representative Holmelid: I will not take the finance debate now, we will take it later. But I have to comment on his attacks on competence. The representative Alf Egil Holmelid has his political function in the city of Norway that delivers the best school results. That town is right-headed. I can take the representative on a little trip. As a local politician in a small industrial community called Båtsfjord, I have been with and tried out the Right Model of Higher Education. We raised the proportion of Båtsfjord youth who completed high school – and, President, notice that we don't do as SV, that we count how many starters in high school, we count how many have completed – from 50 pst. to 73 pst. Boat fjord is an old, traditional industrial place where the learning culture was not good. We did that by looking at the children in a 13-year-old perspective. We saw the students. We recognized that the teachers were the most important resource, we spent the resources on the teachers. The teachers also got a completely different job, by being able to follow the students all the way. Resources were spent on counselling. We did a lot of good things, and we did good. So I can bring the representative Holmelid country and beach around and refer to good project of competence and school results. It is such that the lot Right delivers competence. Party SV lets the Ministry of Knowledge dust down.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3098	I think this debate is going to be a bit strange and it's like you're approaching the intense part of the election campaign, so it's about making the most suggestions in order to later show that it's been suggested in the Stortinget. I think it is remarkable that when you want to discuss the relationship with the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry, you do not mention one word about the Norwegian economy. One does not mention one word about safe economic governance, not one word about interest and price in such a proposal. It is most remarkable that one can go through such an important topic without mentioning any of it in its comments and considerations about the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. There is no doubt that there is a difficult situation. But it is not primarily because of the strange level of taxation. It is primarily because the markets are in a very low economic climate that it is quite demanding. When we look at the opposition with a view to safe economic governance as a concept and question it, primarily on behalf of the Norwegian industry for clarification, it is quite essential. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative NTP 455 billion. kr more than what is now inside. Is the economic policy responsible in the view of the Right? It would have been pretty easy to clarify such things. What are the opposition's assumptions for Norwegian industry in the future? It's completely undecided. The main basis, therefore, is unclear for the Norwegian industry from the Right and the Advance Party. It is with respect to report a test stone to which the Norwegian industry should not be subjected. So to the knowledge part. The right has a mantra that they really want to privatize the primary school, to take it as an example: it's a little weird. We had a meeting with the director of Alcoa. He said that in a year and a half they will be able to place Alcoa in Norway, so that they can take up all the competitiveness that Alcoa needs in the years to come, because we are the world's best organized. How can we be the best organized in the world? My claim is that it is largely due to the Norwegian education system, that we have a common school where different people do similar tasks. This is quite essential for Norwegian business. It is quite essential for Norwegian business to be able to have a rather flat structure outside the companies, which helps to underpin competitiveness. Such elements are not at all part of the thinking pathways of the Right and Advance Party when talking about measures for Norwegian industry. [[President clubs]] Then there are taxes on wealth and other simple solutions...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3112	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3115	I'm not going to pull the discussion out in the long run, but I think it's interesting to get the debate on what business leaders and people in business themselves – systematically – say without comparison is the most important part of business policy, simply to take care of the special skills that we build up in Norwegian school. Then Bakke-Jensen is a little offended because we are attacking their school policies – and he must be allowed to do so – but the problem is that he didn't take the lead. The problem is that there is a part of the Right Party and the Progress Party's school policy that they don't want to talk about in the election campaign, namely the desire to privatize. Especially in secondary school, we've seen it. If you look at vocational education in secondary schools in Sweden, there is hardly any longer a certain quality in school because one has privatised. The second aspect of privatising school is that one gets a classed society. It's the exact opposite of what Norwegian industry is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3127	It is a common trick – when attacking the Right School Policy – to claim that the Right should privatize the school. If you look at the education sector in Oslo: Is it privatized? Looking at the education sector in other municipalities: Is it a privatized education sector? No, no, no. Private schools may be part of a valuable diversity, but the right has not said privatising the school. The most important thing in Higher School Policy is quality in school education and knowledge of what is happening, and that kids should learn what they are going to learn. And it's going to be quality all over the line upwards. The junk mantra that's being developed here is not right. With all due respect, it may be unusual, but I must be allowed to give the position a good advice before we go out in the election campaign: you have to read up better on the Right School Policy, unless we celebrate you off the track in this election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3136	The President will recall that there are measures to strengthen the Norwegian industry that are the subject of this debate — and to stay within that theme. The representative Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3141	I have been very busy in Norwegian business, and if knowledge is not part of the measures, I have not understood Norwegian business. So I just want to say that one thing is what Right says, but I thought Hill-Jensen should read about how many applications for privatization of secondary schools were in there when we took over after Kristin Klemet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3148	The debate on substance is closed. So 21 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3163	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3172	The representative proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tjäldal and Bård Hoksrud, on the framework conditions for Norwegian forestry and woodworking industries, is a highly topical issue in the field of industrial policy. The Norwegian timber industry is highly competitive – and labors. The Swedish company Södra Cell is now liquidating its ownership at its plant in Hurum Municipality due to a lack of profitability. A liquidation will have a direct impact on 300 employees, but according to the Norwegian Forest Association, almost 6 000 jobs can be affected. The South Cell case is not a unique example, but shows the good challenges for the Norwegian woodworking industry. Managing Director of Norwegian Forest states: ‘Serious rules are daunting us for 200 million a year.’ There is mutual dependence in Norwegian forest industries, and a weakened wood processing industry may threaten the entire industry. There is good reason for concern that the hourly earnings in Norwegian industry today are about 70 pst. higher than our trading partners, and that we have a lower level of innovation. The annual growth of productivity under red-green control has suffered a dramatic decline. Our competitiveness is greatly reduced. The proposal points out that the peculiar wealth tax results in companies making dividends to owners in order to finance the owners' wealth tax, which reduces their ability to invest and their soundness. There has been a hidden increase in taxes by reducing depreciation rates, and government parties have voted down proposals to improve the depreciation rules. The government also sees that action is needed to save the Norwegian forest industry. On 29 April 2013, the so-called forest package was presented. There's good reason to ask yourself the question of why this first came at the tame of the government's second growing period. Stortingsretten Per Olaf Lundtigen stated to the NRK on 5 April: ‘We have failed the forestry industry’. The heritage of the Stoltenberg government is a forest industry under critical size. Under the red-green government, the number of jobs in the forest industry has been reduced by approx. 40 pst. In the same period, employment — within the same industry — has remained stable in Sweden. There is room for a Norwegian forest industry, but it requires good political action. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party propose that a separate forest report be submitted and that a concrete long-term objective be put in place for modular train of up to 25 metres and a total weight of up to 60 tonnes to be used on the main road network where it is dimensioned for such transport. The Progress Party and the Right propose to abolish the requirement of residence for forest property, open to the share company model as a form of operation in forestry, and we ask the Government to ensure that the concept of ‘non-interventional natural areas’ is no longer given importance in dealing with land matters in government administrations. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3195	The representative of Torgeir Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3198	There is no doubt that the forest sector is in a particularly difficult situation, not least due to the fact that, over time, there may have been a one-sided effort, while markets are extremely uncertain and downwards in what has been the main production in Norway. It's a serious situation that the government takes very seriously. It is not that we woke up in the spring and recognised that there are challenges in Norwegian forestry. No, the government delivered a package of measures already in the context of the revised national budget in 2012. To date, very strong measures have been taken in relation to the revised national budget. Then I hope that the measures that have come there will help to bring up the optimism, to create new projects, to find new ways to use the wood, which will allow you to get a better value chain and more opportunities for profit. As far as the concrete proposal under consideration is concerned, it is relatively little ambitious. It does not point in any direction other than what is already in the revised national budget, and the measures that the government is actually working with, except that you want your own new forest message to the Stortinget. We believe that the time has come to act, as the government does through the revised national budget. So I think it is important that we constantly work on further actions – or strengthening actions – just to create optimism in relation to the forest sector. I believe in the track of the revised national budget – focus more on research and development, focus on stimulating clusters and cooperation, and not least the most important immediate measures: increasing the permissible total weight and length of timber transport in order to reduce the cost of wood towards the value chains. Here's a proposal that, in my opinion, far on the road is superfluous, based on the situation that is. We must look at the proposals already in place in the revised national budget, promoted by the government, in the fields of knowledge, development and incentives for new products.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3211	Norwegian forestry and wood processing industries are very interested in this matter today. This industry has had a negative trend for several years, so it is high time that some people took this into account. The fact that it is the Progress Party that does it, with this case here today, is no coincidence, as we have had this industry as one of the industries we have prioritised to work for. A number of wood processing plants have been closed, while the forest industry itself is struggling with poor performance. In a short time, Norwegian Forest has been laid down in Follum, Peterson Paper in Moss has gone bankrupt, Hunsfos factories in Vennesla have gone bankrupt, Forestia factory in Kvam was closed in December 2012, Land Sag in Uppland ceased operations and Glamdal Tre AS went bankrupt in March this year, and more with them. The main challenge at present is the future of the Södra Cell Tofte cell mill, which is threatened with closure – a factory that consumes approx. one quarter of the total logging of forests in Norway and employment sites about. 300 persons, and approx. 6000 jobs are affected by this again. In addition to this estimate, many small businesses and individual forest owners have given up or at least given up for a period of time. That is why it is time for us to have a debate on this industry. Through this case, the Progress Party has promoted a number of proposals that we believe will benefit the industry, and make it profitable and competitive in relation to our foreign competitors. The Progress Party has also put forward proposals through budget proposals and other issues at Stortinget which will help both this industry and the Norwegian industry in general. Unfortunately, these proposals have received little or no support from the government parties. The Progress Party proposes, as one of several actions, the promotion of its own forest notification – to shed light, discuss and make proposals for measures that can contribute to the growth of the industry – but this needs to be speeded up. The progress batch suggests doing something with the modular vehicle train length and the total weight, including bogie pressure. The party notes that it will again be voted down and will be sent to a new hearing. Larger car combinations are a major economic saving for the industry, often enough to make the industry profit. The fact that fewer car combinations also have a positive environmental impact is something we get with for free. The Progress Party is also in favour of several ways of owning and operating a forest property, and proposes the AS model as one of several alternatives. In Norway, there are almost 27 000 forest properties, but only about 2 000 forest properties. 300 of these are of a size that gives a year's work. I address the proposal on which the Progress Party is on its own, and the proposals on which we agree with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3230	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3233	Forestry is within a demanding period, and it's very important that we now get discussions around it. I shall not repeat all of the case-speaker’s points of view when it relates to what is in the revised national budget of the Government’s proposal. There are both short-term and long-term measures. Here I'll talk a little bit about the long-term measures. It is likely that the woodworking industry, or the mass-processing industry, may have been a little late in the industrial transition that a lot of other process industries in Norway have been through for 10 to 20 years. We may have been paying too much attention to volume production to avoid working, and have not had sufficient focus on developing products that create higher prices in the market. I found the grips that are now being done, by betting more through the Research Council, very important. But it's only part of it, because if you're really going to get to the necessary conversion and product development, you have to create very close relationships between the industry itself and the research environment. The success we have had in certain other industries in building clusters where small and large enterprises have concrete cooperation with research and teaching institutions, I believe is a very important element here too, and it is now being facilitated with the funding within the revised national budget. Let's take Borregaard, who has developed quite a lot of products – one of the points that can be mentioned is that among the products that they currently have on the bed, and also that they have completed, it's one that wasn't so long ago a waste product that went straight into the river called lignin. The fact that some resources are often called waste because one does not have enough research into what they can actually use can be an interesting observation here, which shows that we are in a green industry with great potential for product development. I also want to say that within this industry there are many who say that it is relatively affordable to get funds for research and development, but the problem arises when you want to invest in a production line, because then you don't talk about millions anymore, then you talk about tens, maybe hundreds of millions of dollars. Therefore, it is so important that capital is now also invested – what has been done by expanding investment capital in the Investinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3244	Economical and active forestry is a vital prerequisite for maintaining and further developing as extensive a wood-based industry in Norway as possible. Norwegian wood processing and Norwegian wood industry are currently in a difficult situation. We in the Centre Party are therefore very concerned that there is a commitment to infrastructure and measures that can increase the activity of forest owners, and we are very concerned about the future of this industry. The ownership laws of forestry and agriculture shall facilitate economic development, activity and future in Building Norway. Housing is a key instrument of rural and agricultural policy and contributes to maintaining rural settlements. The winding-up of the housing obligation will result in capital investors buying up farm and other district properties, and much of the year will be destroyed by rural communities. The issue of compulsory residence and compulsory concession is an example of the dividing lines that are so clear in Norwegian agricultural and district policies. The right-hand side – like representatives of the financial elite – is more concerned with providing a rich opportunity to own more recreational properties in District Norway than ensuring housing and industrial activity in the districts. With regard to the proposal to open up public limited liability companies as a form of forestry, we in the Centerpartie want agricultural property to be owned to the greatest extent possible by persons who are self-employed and who live on the property. However, in cases where flexible solutions on the part of owners give advantages that traditional forms of ownership do not have, the law already facilitates this. In the revised national budget for 2013, the Government has proposed a package of measures of 750 million. kr, which contains measures that will help the forest industry both in the short and long term, which show that the government is taking the challenges facing the industry seriously. We in the Center Party are also very pleased that the business report announces a separate strategy for the forest industry. SKOG22 shall be broadly composed of persons from the whole value chain. The strategy shall provide the basis for a strong research and development effort and demonstration activity – this in order to realise a significant value creation potential in the wood as a resource for the transition from oil-based to bio-based products. Forestry is one of the few complete value chains in Norway. It covers forestry and services related to forestry, timber, timber and wood processing industries. The industry means a lot to value creation and employment in districts. As is well known, timber can be used for a number of modern products, and therefore research and development are the keywords of the government’s new initiative in the Norwegian forest industry. Cost-effective transport is essential for the forest industry. The proposed regulatory changes to increase the total weight of timber transport to 60 tonnes have now been consulted. The government has previously opened for increased length, from 22 metres to 24 metres, on a wooden wagon train. These measures will contribute to the reduction of industry costs and have been received very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3263	Forestry and forest industries have worn out in recent years, and the number of people employed in the forest industry has been reduced by about 40 pst. under this Government. The current situation of the forest industry in Norway is challenging. Developments in the production of cellulose, wood pulp, paper, cardboard, plates, etc. are so dramatically negative that large parts of the industrial demand for forest can be lost in parts of the country. There are a number of measures that could significantly improve the situation of forestry, both in terms of infrastructure, taxes and taxes, and the use of funds within the framework of the code of action. It is good that the government now looks at the weight and length limitation of vehicle trains. A change to 25 metres and 60 tonnes will make a large difference for timber, wood and tile transport, and provide an annual savings of approximately 50,000 loads. Unfortunately, however, changes in the length and weight limits, the development of forest roads, or the restoration of highways will not have much to do without improving the county roads. In large parts of the country there is a poorly developed and maintained county road network. It even recognises the government itself on page 115 of the National Transport Plan, which states: ‘A significant decline has occurred over time on the county road network.’ The state road service has documented that it costs about 75 billion. to remove the decay of the county roads. In the context of the national transport plan, the government has proposed an increase of 10 billion. in framework transfers to the counties, which will not be due for more than five years — during the last part of the planning period. At the same time, the system of interest compensation for transport operations is eliminated. The Christian People's Party believes that this will not be enough to address the very precarious needs for re-establishment of the county road network. Therefore, we will continue the interest-rate compensation scheme so that the counties are still assisted in the development and improvement of the county road network in order to correct bottlenecks and establish adequate carrying capacity on the roads. This is crucial for the transport of timber in the parts of the country from which I come. Taxes and taxes also weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian forestry. The Christian People's Party wants to remove the wealth tax on working capital and start a review of the depreciation rates. We will also see whether there is a need for a further reduction in corporate tax in addition to the government presented in the revised national budget, and for the inheritance tax to be abolished. In addition, we will maintain the average equation for forestry in order to strengthen long-term production. Finally, I would like to mention the rule of action. It is alarming that the government is disregarding the premise for the introduction of the rule of action. It was a prerequisite that the funds from our oil wealth were to be used for research, education, infrastructure or business-oriented tax relief. That hasn't happened. Resources for industrial research are falling, the infrastructure has a significant lag, and the Norwegian level of taxation is not competitive. The Christian People's Party will support the proposals of the Progress Party, both in terms of changes in the length and gravity limits of vehicle trains, and the proposal for a separate report on forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3280	As the Left sees it, there are great opportunities in ‘new’ markets, innovation and innovation on the product side of the forest industry. Through new production processes, wood could eventually replace fossil carbon as the raw material for most common oil-based products. Borregaard’s production of special cellulose, lignin, vanillin, bioethanol and chemicals for the pharmaceutical industry is a good example of this. The left will be a driver for the establishment of NCE in wood-based material technology. A natural location will be Hønefoss, between the already existing NCEs for Systems Engineering on Kongsberg and light metal on Raufoss respectively. In this way, we can create one of the world's most complete environmental technology clusters in the use of materials in this technology-enhanced inland region. It can become not only at its best but also its most important. In addition to the production of new products, more woodland should be used for direct energy production such as bioheat or via biogas. An annual increase of 25 million m3 and a current annual withdrawal of 10 million m3 testify to a significant potential for increased energy production. The left fully supports the national biogas production strategy and will have a large-scale focus on both large industrial plants and smaller farm-based installations. By 2020, the Left will at 30 pst. of manure and forest wood may go to biogas. The left will ban fossil heating in public buildings from 2018 and in all buildings from 2020. The possibilities are there. These must be stimulated through tax conversions, investment aid and research. The left will set up a state investment company – Climate Change – to invest in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs, and environmentally sound business conversion. In order to strengthen active forestry and industrial capacity, it is important to renew the structure of forestry. About 70 pst. of Norwegian forest estates currently has less than 500 decars of productive forest land. The left will eliminate both the right to vote and the prohibition of division in the law to create more sustainable units and more active owners. We can't have an agriculture where almost half of the land is rented land and half of the forest is not operated. Transport capacity is important in order to bring the timber to processing. The left's response to this is a large-scale effort on trains in the countries where forestry has the largest harvest and industry. Double tracks, crossing tracks and transhipment terminals are important measures for increased capacity. Finally, I would like to raise the Left's proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber, and I would like to point out that the Left will vote in favour of minority proposals No. 1 to 4 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3308	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3311	It is good that the framework conditions for the Norwegian forestry and wood processing industries are discussed in Stortinget. The government is committed to facilitating a viable forest industry in Norway, and it is entirely in line with our policy not to approach this in a business-neutral way, but on the contrary have a specific policy that facilitates a traditional industry, which also has a great future. At the same time, forestry is part of a global industry, strongly influenced by what is happening internationally, and has therefore faced major market challenges in failing demand and overcapacity in parts of industry. This applies not only to Norway, but also to many other countries, including our neighbouring country, Sweden. At the same time, we must not blackmail the situation. On Tuesday, the happy news came that Mayr Melnhof Karton buys all the shares in the South Cell wood pulp factory in Follafoss. The sale means that the operation of the plant is restored and, in several product areas, the industry has world-class competence and development environment. Borregaard is the world's leading inside his niches. Moelven is a solid company within building modules and glues. The government follows the situation closely and has ongoing dialogue with the entire industry on the challenges. Already in the revised national budget in 2012, we presented a package of measures to the three processing industries of 100 million. kr, the aim of which was to increase research and development activity in the wood processing industry and improve raw material availability in industry. Various measures have been taken to propose representatives. Subsequently, the government presented the revised national budget with a new package of measures for the forest and wood industries. Here, we promote measures to improve profitability, improve infrastructure, improve innovation, as well as at the same time notifying a separate growth package of depreciation measures, with measures relating to the tax FUNN and measures on tax schemes in general for industry as a whole. The representative proposal addresses several specific actions, but now that the revised national budget is being seen, it is easy to see that we found that the proposal for a representative was too modest on behalf of wood and forest industries. There are a few times that the opposition is so undressed as in the process around this matter. So you're proposing 50 million. Infrastructural measures, the government comes with much, much more on infrastructure measures, and then the attitude is that this was a little weak on the part of the government. It's written that you want 60 tons on the total weight, so the government sends such a proposal to the hearing, and then you're dissatisfied with the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3329	I have asked many questions in the questionnaire over the 16 years I have been at Stortinget. Many of the questions have been forestry and agriculture-related. They are addressed to the current Minister for Food and Agriculture, and they are addressed to former Ministers for Food and Agriculture. The fact that the forest industry is now struggling is no news. It's worn for a long time. It is strange that the government has not taken this into account in the past. You can ask why this forest package comes only now and has not come before. Another thing I notice is – as the council said a little bit about from the pulpit – this with modular train, lengths and 60 tons of total weight. These are proposals that have been made in the past. It's been out at the hearing. As far as I know, it has been at the hearing for three years, and now the government is going to reconsult the issue of 60 tonnes. Why can't you immediately say yes to 60 tons? It will save the industry for millions. It'll also be good for the environment to get rid of part of the train load that's on our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3336	The representative is only allowed to cross his fingers so that this government continues, so that we can implement the schedule of the times in Norwegian transport – not create a huge uncertainty about OPS projects, which divert the money from road betting into private pockets, or stop the 100 billion. kr from toll revenue that we need to ensure the implementation of such a transport package. It's amazing that the two largest opposition parties, which are planning to join forces, can't say clearly how they're going to finance a 130 billion mark. kr – I think it is – if you just wind up the bomb projects that are today, in addition to the next 100. The voters are in total ignorance of what kind of policy the Right Party and the Advance Party together will lead in the field of transport. It has an impact on wood and forest industry. And when they – when they themselves presented a 50-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr i bet – gets a package of 750 million. kr and is dissatisfied, the parody is perfect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3345	I would appreciate very much that the Council of State had answered my questions. I ask: why did the forest package come only now and not before? There is no news that the industry has worn out. And I ask again: why should the proposal of 60 tonnes be reconsulted, when it has been consulted in the past for at least three years? Why can't you immediately say yes to vehicles with a total weight of 60 tonnes and 25 metres in length where the road network permits it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3352	The forest package did not come now, it came, among other things. in the revised national budget in 2012. It has come into an extensive cultural effort while we have been in government. It has come in the form of a responsible economic policy, which has helped to ensure that Norwegian industry and competitive industries are better off than the vast majority of Europeans. It has come through a good distribution policy that ensures responsible wage settlement and does not conflict with the social partners. It has come in the form of innovation and development. Among other things, a company that Borregaard has benefited from tens of millions of dollars in support of public food. It has to be possible to point out that a 130-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr between the Right and Advance Party in the transport policy is not a good response to a wood and forest industry that depends more than anything on predictability and actual investment – not just paper policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3359	The forest industry suffers from two quite clear competitive disadvantages. One goes on transport costs. They are considerably higher, and we know that we have a road network that is not suitable for taking the transport quantities and the transport volumes that are absolutely necessary. The second is strange rules. I showed in my post that the Managing Director of Norwegian Forest said on 25 April that strange rules cost Norwegian Forest Group 200 million. kr annually. They claim that without them they would be highly competitive compared to both Swedish and Finnish competitors. Will the Minister of Economic Affairs take action to see if he can contribute — not by discriminating with industry, but at least by giving these industries a minimum of neutrality? Today they have clear competitive disadvantages, at least as the Right sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3368	What the industry says to us is the most significant difference between, for example: Norway and Sweden, this is with wagon length and transport measures. For this reason, this is precisely the focus of the package we presented in the revised budget, where we are betting – much more than the representative proposal put forward – on infrastructure and transport measures for wood and forest industries. The question that remains to the Right is, with an anomaly of perhaps 130 billion. kr between the Right Party and the Advance Party, where does the intercourse bet become? We are not talking about small amounts of money, we are talking about a huge distance in transport policy. Now we're going to increase the investment in infrastructure and transport by 50 pst. during the next ten-year period. Then you need predictability. There is a need to agree on funding – not a huge dispute about any toll project, OPS project or other that would put the whole plan into play.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3377	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3380	For those of us who come both from the forest and live from the forest – inland – there may be two approaches to the representative proposal that is being discussed here today and to the framework conditions for forestry as such. The first is whether to choose black paint – say that everything is hopeless and that the train has somehow passed. The second is to say that all the new policies that come from the government are almost useless. I have the opposite approach to this debate. First, there is an enormous potential in the forest industry, both for traditional activities and for exploiting timber in new ways, which is of economic importance to us. There is talk of billions in terms of what this means for Norway — it employs 25 000 people. But it also has an impact on the debate that we have had on many occasions in Stortingen lately, namely about fighting against a two-way sharing of the Norwegian economy and contributing to an economy that is climate-friendly and that takes care of opportunities for renewables. So this is a positive starting point, sail if many of the challenges around the industry are heavy, and sail if many wear. In this way I must say that it is gratifying to see that the government is so clear in its actions. I must also stress that this is not a work started in connection with the revised national budget. After all, they had – as both the Council of State and several others have been involved in the past – a package of measures already last year and follow up well this year, in volume, at my discretion, very strong and very accurate. There are very important measures coming, but it is gratifying that the government chooses to bet so clearly on this, and as I see that the forest industry and the actors out there have accepted with open arms and have given positive shots. In that case, the lack of a political debate such as this was not such that, when you see that the government's proposals go beyond what is in the proposal for a representative, you could at least say that this has some positive elements in it. It is very important, according to my concepts, that we are now able to do something about the transport capacity of the forest industry. The strong effort that is now coming, the strong effort on forest roads and getting the timber out, makes this a real blow to the forest industry. In this way, I am somewhat surprised at the Left Party, which today promotes many proposals for the development of bioeconomy and bioenergy, but at the same time, just a few days ago here in the Stortinget, chose to propose that all subsidisation of forest roads should be abolished. There is a lack of consistency in forest policy that will mean that the large potential that lies there is not made use of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3394	First, a small explanation of vote. As far as the Left's proposal is concerned, the Progress Party wishes to vote in favour of the proposals No. Eight, nine, eleven. That's what they say. There has been a lot of talk about the forest package from the government. I guess everyone wants to welcome it, and everyone will vote for it when there are opportunities for it. But what we in the opposition believe is that it should have come before, that it could have been bigger, and that it could also include many other things that we in the opposition mention, among other things. this with taxes, taxes and depreciation, etc. There is no doubt that there is much less mowing than the growth in Norway. In fact, it is cut much less than half. This results, inter alia, in: Norway is growing again. It again makes that, among other things. tourism and tourism are affected by this. This isn't just about the forest industry, it's not just about the wood industry, it's also a lot of other industries that depend on these two industries going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3403	I welcome all the debates on this issue and thank the Progress Party for a new opportunity. It is correct that the level of costs in Norway in general, given hourly wages, is higher than that of our trading partners — significantly higher — but in the case of the woodworking industry, it is not true. A lawyer on one of our biggest stockholders earns NOK 157 an hour, another lawyer earns NOK 195 an hour. Compared to others, that's a bad payment. There is a poor payment, and this means that the interest in becoming a lawyer and a skilled worker in the industry and in the woodworking industry is lower. That's the problem. On the other hand, with regard to the indication by the Right and Advance Party that there is a low level of innovation, that is correct. There have been major strategic errors, as reported by Norwegian Forest, which have been committed to newspaper paper worldwide. It has contributed, and there is a generally low profitability, which provides low innovation capacity. It is therefore necessary to increase the profitability of the whole value chain: the use of the forest, the harvest of the forest, the transport of the timber, the processing of the timber. Crisis provides opportunities, new, powerful economic instruments are discussed – it is the debate that has been revised. What I want to focus on now, however, is ownership. The right and the right have a proposal: ‘The government is asking for proposals to open up the share company model as a form of operation in forestry.’ The centre party is quite clear that we are going to have a private, personal ownership of property rights and property obligations. It has proved to be superior to historical, superior to a biological production where one must think in the long term, and where one must have obligations to ownership. We know that property gives power, so that's our vision. But what does the Right and Advance Party really mean by its proposal? Will they open up the share company model as a form of operation in forestry? Is that the property of the forest you're talking about, or is it drifting in the woods? There is full opening today to have machines in the form of a limited liability company – no problem. But what do they mean? There is also a lack of clarity on this point in the right-hand application proposal. Is it that the Right wants to have a limited liability company that has to own a forest, or isn't it? That's my question. It's incredibly central to clarify it in this discussion, because it's probably the last thing that goes on this important point. What is the meaning of the proposal? Is it the ownership of the woodland or the ownership of the harvester you are talking about? The central feature is the ownership of the forest. There goes the Center Party for a personal, private ownership with duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3417	To the previous speaker, you might want to turn a little bit on who should answer. The very central thing is that we have a resource that is under-utilised and that has – there I agree with Storberget – an enormous potential. It's a national neglect, really, that we don't have a greater focus on how to exploit it. Government parties are beginning to respond to how we are going to speed up the exploitation of the resource. That's what we're talking about. That's why I wanted to take the floor when the Minister of Industry made some comments, because he talked about predictability and business neutrality. The only predictable thing for forest industry has been that red-green cost policies lead to a peculiar cost level, which means that one is not competitive in the international market. It's probably the only real predictability that the government has stood for. We have a great resource. It does the job in climate context if we actively manage it. This is quite important, because without industrial capacity to accept the raw material, of course, the resource will not be managed, and thus the work of the forest in climate change will also be weakened. It is quite clear – I see that the Minister of Finance is also in the Chamber, because we in the Financial Committee are going to have the next case – that the forest will not actually do the job any more in climate-related terms if we do not increase the focus on outreach and active management. This is also central in the documents of the Ministry of Finance. We also fully agree with Knut Storberget that everything is not hopeless. There are actually a lot of possibilities, but if you look at the outcome of the eight years of red-green policy, the industry has actually gone straight down. Since the days of the war and long before it, Norway has been a net importer of raw materials. This means that we have had a capable industry, which has been so good that it has actually also had to import net raw materials — timber — to process it in Norway. This has been a pretty good example of a good Norwegian industry. It has now been successfully completed in eight years. That's what it says as a result of the policy. So to the action package. What's the promise? 60 tonnes have been sent to the hearing, the TaxFUNN does not know what is involved – it is to be returned to the State budget – and the Investinor actually requires at least as much private money to be triggered at all. There is almost nothing in the package that has come. We're probably going to have a lot of discussion about that over and over the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3430	I record that there is some energy in the debate around the whole forest industry and the forest industry, and I think that is positive. I would like to commend the Advancement Party, which has promoted this matter. I notice that you only now react to the fact that we have seen a 40 pst. the reduction of employment in the forest industry during this government. 40 pst. - It's quite dramatic. Now you want to put in place a number of measures. It can be discussed how concrete these measures are in relation to assessing transport costs by facilitating heavy transport. Well, we know that our road maintenance is anything but good, so we'll see how fast we can get in place a necessary infrastructure to support that industry. I notice that the Council of State believes that it is only the transport costs that are the competitive disadvantage of this industry. I think that is wrong, and once again I refer to statements from the industry itself, which believe that there are special rules and laws that make this industry toil, and have worse framework conditions than they would have had in, for example. Sweden or Finland. I might have thought that the Council of State would look at those elements also in order to facilitate a more sustainable development of this whole industry. Finally a little positive: I know that, among other things. Avinor now works with wood as a resource, and then we think of solid houses. They have their first pilot projects on it, and these are precisely measures that can help the industry, there is innovation in practice. In Møre and Romesdal County, we are now working on a project that goes to a secondary school building – a large secondary school building – in heroes. It's going to be exciting, and what you see at the same time is whether that way you can also avoid having to use traditional ventilation systems, but actually get these buildings built in a sustainable way with good, natural ventilation. There are opportunities, but there is a systematic approach to facilitating, so that this industry too can be totally sustainable and move towards a more positive development. It's an exciting industry with great opportunities. We record that so far a significant decrease has been experienced. The trends have not been taken seriously. Now you try, and then you get to hope that the measures are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3441	I will not try to extend the debate, but the representative Storberget made me speak. The left has promoted some proposals here today that we believe are forward-looking. We believe there are great opportunities in new markets, innovation and innovation on the product side of the forest industry. I am sorry that the government parties do not see this and think forward. With regard to the state's subsidisation of forest motorways, this has been a debate in Stortinget between Left and Lundtägen for very many years – now I notice that the representative Storberget has taken over this role. I'll end by saying that I think it's time to agree that we don't actually agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3454	This theme requires a thorough discussion in many forums. In the context of the revised national budget, we are given the discussion on the economic framework conditions. I will continue to focus here on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right related to ownership. It is such that it has been suggested that: ‘The government is asking for proposals to open up the share company model as a form of operation in forestry.’ There have been several speakers from the Progress Party and the Right after me who have not answered the question of what is meant by this. Then I'll try to guide myself a little. The right-wing voting programme applicable to the current period states: ‘soften agricultural ownership so that a limited liability company can also become a possible form of ownership, thus strengthening the industry’s ability to build equity for future investments.’ So the program says that you want to have the form of a corporation as the form of ownership of the forest land. Thus, we know that all the obligations relating to the forest land are gone, so that you get a ownership where you can change shares the same way you can change in any other company. It is interesting that the right party does not want to discuss the ownership of the forest, want to front its view, where they believe it is beneficial to go from a personal private ownership to a shareholder ownership on the forest. I know few Right-wing people who are followers of this. The right has previously been the party that went for a personal ownership. That is what is really capitalism, unconservatism, personal ownership – with the long-termity that lies in it. It is not a coincidence that personal ownership is what has been chosen in the forest, because a long-termity is needed that goes far beyond what you get from the form of a corporation. So the right goes in to open up to the form of a limited liability company as a form of ownership of a forest. That is not what this proposal says, because it says the operating modes. I get to expect when I go to the source – which is the Right Program – that there is ownership of the forest that you think is, and that is clarifying. It'll be an interesting discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3477	It was polite to record that the Council of State was in favour of the National Transport Plan and the proposal of the Progress Party to the National Transport Plan. The Minister of Industry may take a tour on Tuesday, so that we can also discuss the framework conditions and the consequences of poor infrastructure for business a little wider than just for this industry. I'm going to focus on the forest industry and the challenges for the transport industry in the forest industry, because they're quite huge. It is also about what the Council of State was concerned about — tolls and the consequences of tolls. It hits South Cell Tofte. They have many cars that still drive there every day, but you do not know how long it will be. They pay tolls in quite expensive judgments and have other problems due to high transport costs. Tolls are one of the moments that also hit there. For example, another area that is important for the forest industry is: the port infrastructure. In Kragerø you have problems with the fact that the boats cannot have full cargo due to the entrance and problems with things you should have removed in the water. The government won't do anything about it. When we deal with the National Transport Plan on Tuesday, the government refuses to do anything about the entrance, which would have been an important contribution to business, both in the woodworking industry and in other industries. I was actually quite positive about what the Minister for Transport said about opening up 60 tonnes on car trains to transport timber within the timber industry. It does not help to send it to the hearing. That's not what the industry needs – they need action and willingness to implement and make sure that you actually get to run at 60 tons and have a length of 24-25 meters. It is also necessary to have 20 tonnes of axle load on the bogie for the sake of road safety. I note that not many have commented on this from the Red-Green parties, nor from the Councils of State. Traffic safety thought I was important, and then you should also include the recordings that come from the industry. It's good at 60 tons and you're going to try to do it in the different states. The problem is that in many places it is not possible to run at 60 tonnes if you don't also upgrade the infrastructure, and perhaps especially the county infrastructure. There I see that the red-green government wants it to continue to mature. In the head of the Liaison Committee, Telemark, the problem is that there is a very small percentage of the road network in which it is now to be assessed whether to allow it to be operated at 60 tonnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3492	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3495	In the proposal we have used the word ‘Module train’ – it has been quite conscious. This applies not only to those who transport timber, but also to those carriers who have to carry something out – that is to say, all vehicle trains. With regard to the representative Lundtigen and his question about our proposal, it is the form of ownership. In his reply to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on 10 May this year, Mr Trond Giske, said that he was in a position to do so. writes: ‘Further, the representatives propose to open up the share company model as a form of agricultural operation. Property and housing legislation is based on the fact that agricultural properties should be owned as far as possible by persons who are themselves responsible for the operation and living on the property. However, the law provides for a concession to be granted to limited liability companies.» It is possible today to own a forest property as a limited liability company. We want that opportunity to be open to everyone. Large forest owners want their children to take over the property – and not just one child.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3507	I guess I suspect that the representative Lundtigen doesn't know so many Right-wing people. I don't think this is a very big theme in the Right. We have adopted a programme, and it is well known that we will deregulate the forest market. It also means, of course, that the form of a limited liability company can become a form of ownership in forests. I believe that it can be an excellent form of ownership for such a heavy-capital industry, and in particular – as Bredvold says – with a transfer to the next generation, there are entirely different opportunities to have a seamless transition for a family occupied by family ownership. By saying that all the obligations disappear with the form of a limited liability company, you do not know the owners of a limited liability company very well. It's going to be kind of like saying that this is the same thing as the Center Party removing all of the obligations for all of the land that State Forest buys. Then you could say that an AS is synonymous with a state enterprise. This discussion is uninteresting. What is interesting, however, is that Sweden — where forest resources mean so much more — tried the same regulation as in Norway for a few years, but they had to remove it quite quickly, because the activity fell sharply. What happened when the activity was removed was that the turnover increased. It was the resident who bought it, and the out-of-town farmer who sold it, and there were two or three sellers per buyer. In other words, it was achieved that the resident farmer was given more ownership, and the structuralisation that was not achieved in Norway through regulation was achieved. So it might be possible to look up a little bit of a cup and see that it's possible to solve challenges in ways other than the rather failed ways we've done it in Norway in recent years. But then until what I thought the discussion was about, the competitiveness of the forest industry. We have the proven peculiar costs that are additional to the high cost level in Norway. I didn't quite get through the list. We have the biodiesel tax that the government effectively introduced when Norwegian Forest tried to get something at Follum. As a result, Norwegian Forest now has its pilot plant in Australia or in New Zealand. I'm not sure which country it is. But there they already have the pilot plant that could have been on Follum, if not the red-greens had once again introduced a charging policy that stops quite a lot of innovation. Property tax is another matter that I have had with the Minister of Finance several times. Norsk Industri claims that it is worth 100 million. in exceptional costs for the wood processing industry each year. At least you get to start by removing the strange elements before accusing others of nutrition neutrality. You have to eliminate your own industrial discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3518	The representative, Lundtigen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3522	I referred to the current programme in the Right in the case of squamous areas and property rights. The following programme states: ‘soften the rules for the use of limited liability companies as a company for parts of the business on an agricultural property — in order to reduce the risk and improve the possibility of access to capital’. [[...]] Part of the establishment on an agricultural property! The concepts are activities — parts of the business. There is a lot of activity on an agricultural property, which has nothing to do with its ownership. It is free to organise the operation itself as a limited liability company, but not ownership. But now we've been made clear by the representative of Gundersen that this is supposed to mean that an AS can have ownership, and that's incredibly clarifying. It is a shift in how to organise ownership of production areas – soil and ice – in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3532	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 23 and 24 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3561	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3570	Report. St. 27 is the Communication on the management of the State pension fund abroad and the State pension fund Norway for 2012. The pension fund achieved a good result in 2012. The return on SPU was 13.4 pst. and on SPN was the 12.2 pst. before deducting administrative expenses. At the end of the year, the total value of the fund was 3,961 billion. kr, there's an increase of 520 billion. kr compared to the beginning of the year. The rule of action has been a guarantee that petroleum revenues have been phased in too quickly in the Norwegian economy. At the same time, the rule of action is flexible and ensures that we have the opportunity to pursue an active counter-cyclical policy when required. The Pension Fund ensures that future generations will also enjoy the temporary income we receive from oil and gas. The Communication sets out the investment strategy for SPU and SPN. The strategy is as follows: make use of risk premiums over time, exploiting the long horizon of the fund with responsible investment practices ensuring cost-effectiveness. The long-term strategy specifies a fixed share capital of 60 p.m., debt securities 35 p.m. and property portfolio of 5 pst. The majority of the Committee agrees. State pension fund Norway has a market value of 145 billion. kr. This underlines the importance of the fund as a large and long-term owner in the Norwegian bond and share markets. It contributes to the stability of the economy as a whole. The highest attention given to the treatment – not least in the hearing of the committee – has been given to the responsible investment practice. Transparency, ethical guidelines and environmental investment are essential for the legitimacy of the Fund in the population and contribute to concrete improvements for, inter alia, health, environment and labour rights. State pension funds abroad sold themselves last year to 23 companies that are assessed not to produce palm oil in a sustainable way. The majority of the Committee welcomes the sale. At the same time, it is important for the majority to stress that conservation of existing rainforests cannot be replaced by new plantings. This is also in line with the statements of the Rain Forest Fund. It is also underlined that clear requirements are needed to reduce deforestation. In 2009 it was decided to establish specific mandates for environmental investments. Investments have been foreseen to range between 20 and 30 billion. kr. In this respect, the Committee points out that investment in renewable energy is expected to continue to grow worldwide in the coming years, not least as a result of international climate agreements. The value of companies investing in fossil energy may fall forward. The majority of the Committee calls for a review of the experience of environmental investments before possibly increasing the framework. The majority of the Committee emphasises that the management of the State pension fund has had a positive development with more transparency and clearer guidelines on responsible investment practices. At the hearing, opinions were expressed that there is a need for even more transparency in the exercise of ownership. This must be followed up by the Bank of Norway in the future. The size adopted ethical guidelines for the State pension fund in 2004. SV was the driver of these guidelines. There was no lack of counter-conceptions, there were many of them that were both ridiculous and impossible to implement. They were wrong, we got it right. There is now broad agreement on ethical guidelines and responsible investment practices. The Norwegian pension fund is the world leader in this field and sets international standards. We're very pleased with that. The Government has set up a Strategy Council to review the strategy for responsible investment practices and shall consider how the overall competence of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ethics and the Bank of Norway can be optimised. It is a very important work to be completed until the harvest. I expect a good public debate in relation to the treatment of the Council's work, and I assume that it will mark the next year's handling of the State pension fund's call. So in the final analysis, in the committee position, there has been a mistake in the proposal for a decision. Some of the text fell out. However, the Committee’s position is that the notification should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3616	I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3619	The Pension Fund will be managed on behalf of the Norwegian people. It is a fundamental obligation to create long-term, good returns from which future generations can benefit. In 2012, the fund has had good returns, both in the State pension fund Norway and the State pension fund abroad. The return on SPU was 13.4 pst. and by SPN 12,2 pst. before deducting management costs. At the end of the year, the total value of the State pension fund was 3 961 billion. kr, an increase of 520 billion. If we compare with the beginning of the year. There is a broad consensus on the overarching of the long-term strategy and the objectives of the fund. The experience of the financial crisis shows that it is important to stick to the fund’s long-term investment strategy, especially in turbulent times. It is very good that there is also a great deal of connection to the rule of action for the phase-in of oil and gas revenues in the economy here in Stortinget, and all the parties outside the Progress Party are in favour. It ensures prudent budgetary policies and long-term management of the financial assets. Petroleum revenues are being invested today to facilitate future prosperity and well-being. At the same time, everyone's good news from the fund is that we can get 125.3 billion. kr added to the 2013 budget. It increases the room for manoeuvre in the budget and allows for a stronger effort than would otherwise have been possible on welfare, infrastructure, research, education and health. Since 2005, e.g. The real growth of transport is over 60 p.p., three times as much as the growth of the total expenditure of the State budget. In addition, the government has submitted a new national transport plan with a strengthening of the 50 additional pst. In the research field, the permissions are increased by more than 30 pst. Norway uses the second most public funds measured per capita for research in OECD countries. No major changes have been made to the investment strategy for SPU and SPN in this year’s notification. The development of the investment strategy for the State pension fund abroad is long-term work. Therefore, the year’s notification presents an analysis of several aspects of the strategy and follows up the decisions taken in the last few years – the share has increased from 40 pst. At 60 p.m., one has entered ownership, and now in 2013 the mandate has been changed to allow one to enter property globally. Responsible investment practices are important to us. Therefore, a Strategy Council has been set up to look at the fund’s responsible investment practices. The Strategy Council will deliver the report in October this year. The Ethics Council was created in 2004 and is doing a very important job. Last year in the Ethics Council we asked the government to assess the resource situation of the Ethics Council. As one of the tasks of the Strategy Council 2013 is to look at how the pooling of resources and competences in both the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ethics and Norway Bank can best be used to strengthen the work of responsible investment practices, a report from this will be awaited and then provide an assessment. Openness in managing the fund is important. Noregs Bank's ownership work is based on an internationally recognised principle, and they do important work, for example. the fund has now sold itself out of 23 companies that produced palm oil in an unsustainable way. It sends an important signal to the market. Experience so far shows that we have the ability to facilitate the long-term and good management of the country's petroleum fortune, so that it can benefit both today's generation and future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3636	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report and a good job. Fortunately, it is much more pleasant to read, evaluate and work on such a case when you see that 2012 was a good year for the fund in total. It was not as pleasant when, for example, we had left behind the crisis year 2008, when the fund had lost approx. 633 B.C.E. kr. But essentially – as has been said – there is a cross-political consensus that governance is good. But there's something that can get better. However, we in the Financial Committee, which is only elected representatives, depend on neutral professional assessments, external reports and external input – which we also receive new and new – in order to give the best possible mandate. When it comes to the open consultations we have had in the Financial Committee in the context of the annual large-scale communications on the management of the State pension fund, we have recorded in the Progress Party that all the hearing bodies that were at the open hearing have had exclusive views on the ethical guidelines and on transparency, and opinions and reflections on how the ethical guidelines can be improved. None of the hearing bodies has had anything to say about, for example:: how investments can be better, how to make risk premiums over time, how to get higher returns, how to get safer returns, how to make better use of the Fund’s long time horizon, how to improve cost efficiency, how to improve governance structure, or how to build up a Norwegian management environment. Some of the reasons are that the Finance Committee of the Grand Duchy does not open up the possibility for individuals or companies to comment on the open consultations of the Financial Committee. That is why I hope that the Storting and the Financial Committee will be able to reconsider the rules and practices in this area during the next major period. For this reason, the Progress Party itself took the initiative to organise a seminar on the management of the State pension fund in which we invited individuals from the Norwegian financial environment and financial institutions. It was a very interesting day. The invited speakers made interesting contributions and sometimes had strong opinions on how to do better, on how to improve mandates, and not least on what was unanimously agreed: how to build up the administration that exists here in Norway, in the same way that Norway built up its expertise on oil and gas. At first, people were dependent on Americans who came here to Norway. Similarly, one should think about how to build a Norwegian financial environment. On this occasion, I would like to thank and praise the Labour Party member of the Financial Committee, Gunvor Eldegard, who also actually came to the seminar and asked good questions – just a pity that only the representatives of the Advance Party and one of the Workers' Party came to this seminar. We also invited Norway’s Bank to keep posts and brief on status. I must therefore express my disappointment that the Bank of Norway would not come to this seminar at Stortinget. Norway’s Bank was invited not only to inform about the administration but also to answer questions — questions that probably only Norway’s Bank could provide good answers. With regard to the various proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or with others, I would like to say a few words about some of these: Joint text, proposal No. 2, investing more in poor countries and emerging markets. Growing markets were included in the State pension fund foreign stock reference index for the first time in 2000 and have invested much more in emerging markets in recent years. Investment in these markets contributes to the spread of risks between countries. For several years, it has been assessed to establish a fund or investment programme for investments in emerging and less developed markets, which is in line with, inter alia, recommendations from the Commission. The Development Committee and Norfund. Here we want to move forward in the process. A few years ago, the Ministry drew up perspectives for the further development of the SPU strategy. Among other things, notes that the SPU has a significantly lower share invested in unlisted shares and infrastructure than other large funds internationally. Furthermore, it was shown that the size and long time horizon of the Fund make it natural to assess such investments. One of the things to do was to leave. emphasis on building experience from the largest and most developed unlisted market, the real estate market, first. At the same time, it was pointed out that SPU's characteristics make it natural to come back to the question of unlisted shares and infrastructure later. As you know, the year’s communication does not address major changes in the fund’s investment strategy, but the Progress Party believes that it should be looked at more closely at at the next big business report. Recent criticisms have been made that the State pension fund abroad borrows money to countries where the risk is high and the return is low. I show you, among other things: to a notice of DN.no on 16 May of the year in which it is disclosed that Japanese sovereign debt is the second largest single investment fund. The investment carries high risks, but Japanese government debt with both five and ten years' maturity currently has an interest rate of less than 1 pst. In the first quarter of the year, the Japanese bond loans in which the fund has invested gave a negative return of 4.1 pst. The Progress Party believes that the investment universe should be changed to avoid more unwise investments. As the international economic situation is now, and is likely to be for many years to come, with many countries on the brink of bankruptcy and countries that are actively solving their financial problems by using the banknote press, there are still great opportunities for both government bonds and shares to collapse. It would then make sense to analyse whether the fund’s assets can be spread somewhat more than today — in other forms of property and with new strategies, including unlisted shares and infrastructure, as mentioned earlier — without the conclusion of the Progress Party. But you do some reflections. Some of the reasons why this has not been proposed can be purely political, the political majority believes that it is difficult to defend the investment of hundreds of billions of dollars in infrastructure abroad – while at the same time it is seen that the infrastructure in Norway is due, and that Norway is internationally referred to that country in the Western world with the worst infrastructure in terms of roads. We should look at other forms of investment and other forms of property to spread the risk. For example, I think it's interesting to see more states in the world investing in gold. You do some reflections. Was it a loss of the Stortinget to sell Norway's gold stock? In 2004, the Bank of Norway, known as the Bank of Great Britain, sold more than 33 tonnes of gold bars on the international gold market in London. In retrospect, we can at least agree that it wasn't perfect timing. Since then, the gold price has apparently risen by well over 400 pst. Then it is interesting to note that our neighbouring country Russia, after President Vladimir Putin came to power, in November 2005, that is, the year after Norway sold its gold stock, began to invest more in gold. The Russian central bank held 387 tonnes of gold in 2005. They have after that hamstered even more. Now they're approaching 1,000 tons of gold. What's it like in other countries? In countries such as the United States, Germany and France, gold reserves amount to more than 70 pst. of the total reserves. The United States has the largest gold reserves with more than 8 000 tonnes of gold, followed by Germany with about 1 000 tonnes of gold. 3 400 tonnes. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, has approx. 2,800 tonnes. In the next places we'll find Italy with approx. 2 500 tonnes, France with approx. 2 400 tonnes, China with a little over 1 000 tonnes and Switzerland with a little over 1 000 tonnes of gold. Once I have started, I can also mention that the Greek central bank has a seat of approx. 112 tonnes of gold at a value of 33 billion kr. Otherwise, there's another video that could be interesting. As some may have brought with them now, as the whole of Norway celebrates the 150th anniversary of Edvard Munch, one of the most important figures in modern art, former party leaders and long-standing pottery representative Carl I. Hagen and current Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, former Minister of Culture, Trond Giske, have suggested that perhaps you should consider investing in art. There might be a lot of good reasons for that. But I'll leave it. In conclusion, I just want to address the proposals that we have alone and together with others. When I look at proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, this is originally an old progress party proposal, which the Progress Party has proposed several times. We didn't intend to take a rematch on it, but when the Christian People's Party actually takes it up, we will of course support it. I would recommend the representatives of the Progress Party to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3676	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3679	I'm going to be relatively short, because the case rapporteur presented in an excellent way the broad political consensus that is linked to the management of the State pension fund abroad, and gave proper and proper recognition of the results achieved in the last year. I would like to stress the importance of the broad political consensus. It is essential in the management of our great common wealth. However, the fact that there is a broad political consensus must not mean avoiding debate on governance. I think that is important – political debate, but also a broad technical debate. In this context, seminars in Stortinget are excellent. I would like to be present at that, but there are wide-ranging technical debates in other seminars, including in written form. I would like to acknowledge the developments that have been taking place within NBIM over several years, with greater emphasis on transparency, greater emphasis on anchoring and greater emphasis on ethical management. There are three key keywords for how this job needs to be done. There must be transparency about the management of such large values. It is absolutely essential that there be a democratic anchoring of the strategy and decisions to be taken in the Grand Duchy, and it is important that the administration is ethical and sound, so that we can see our children and grandchildren in the eyes of how the money is invested. The right, along with the other bourgeois parties, calls for a review of the way NBIM and SPU are organised and managed. This is not a criticism of the way it has been done – on the contrary, we acknowledge it. But it's important when we're about to see 10–15 years ahead in time to ask the question: is that the right way we've organized the fund, and is it managed in the right way? In several contexts, the right-hand side has pointed out that, among other things, is a significant challenge for the central government of Norway’s Bank to be responsible for both the state pension fund abroad and monetary policy. There are subjects that are relatively distant from each other. The Governing Council has good professional competence, but we ask the question: Should it be organised in a different way in the future? The Ministry of Finance has previously pointed out that it can be organised by setting up a separate interest committee. We believe that it should be reviewed. Similarly, we believe that we should also consider whether we should put all the eggs in one basket, or whether we should think about several funds. In this context, I would like to point out to the State pension fund Norway, which has gained considerable competence, and to assess whether one can build on it, if one chooses to have more than one fund instead of just one. During this period, the Stockholm Finance Committee visited NBIM in both Oslo, London, New York and Singapore. For my own part, I have to say that I am impressed by the thoroughness and professional level of the organisation. It's important, and it's also reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3696	The state pension fund abroad and the State pension fund Norway are major factors in the Norwegian economy. The state pension fund abroad is also a major global player. The size of its annual debate on fund management and investment strategies is therefore important both as a basis for assessing whether the values are managed in the best possible way, and whether the investments can be defended in accordance with the ethical values we have seen in the administration. It's worth noting that over 1000 billion. Of them, $4,000. kr in the State pension fund abroad is the return on the fund’s investment. It tells us that the investment strategy is so successful. Axles and bonds are still the most important, but the last few years are property. The central party believes that there is reason to consider whether investment in fixed ownership should be increased further over time, both on the basis of the desire to secure high returns on the fund's capital, and to spread risk. The State pension fund Norway is managed by the Folketrøgdfondet. The fund's capital is 135 billion. kr. It is modest in relation to the values of the SPU, but still represents a significant player in the Norwegian market, with approx. 10 pst. of the market value of Oslo Børs. The Social Security Fund has been mandated to administer the values of the State pension fund in Norway on the basis of the purpose of the return and where the return is added to the fund's capital. Based on its long-term investment strategy, SPN has a stabilising role and can operate counter-cyclically in the Norwegian stock market. We have also seen that the Swedish Social Security Fund has used its position as the owner to demand responsible rental and moderation in the wage development by participating in general meetings. That's good. Then, after the opinion of the Centre Party, there will probably be a need to assess whether the SPN investment strategy can be further developed by developing its mandate. I am thinking both of the need to strengthen capital supply to the mainland industry and of the financing of high priority infrastructure. We will continue to work on this in the party. The hearing of the Financial Committee on the management of State pension funds in 2012 got good and wide participation and made many input into the responsible investment strategy and the ethical aspects of administration. In this debate, we are also discussing the Christian People's Party's proposal to strengthen the work of ethics in the SPU. The government commissioned the SPU Strategy Council earlier this year to give an assessment of the fund’s overarching investment policy strategy, including the resources given to the Ethics Council to perform their central role. This is important work. It is also a task to ensure that the management of the Fund is in line with leading practice internationally. The hearing showed that there was general satisfaction with the Ethics Council's work, but also that one demanded both more openness and not least a faster examination of the proposals made by the Ethics Council. Important decisions have been taken to extend the SPU’s portfolio of investments. Tobacco production, child labour and environmental concerns have led to medical interventions in decisions taken. We meet new demands for extractions. The last one was about an old-timer company. We have also had a debate on investment in alcohol production. These are relevant recordings that need to be carefully evaluated. It concerns the perception of strengthening environmental investment by expanding the framework that we have seen for it. The Church's Emergency Aid has been an exciting voice in the debate on global distribution policy. Now we have to wait and look at the assessments presented on responsible investment strategy from the Strategy Council, and come back to how we can secure the ethical profile we want to base in the management of the Fund. Nor do we escape the discussion that responsible management of the SPU implies an investment strategy that has broader policy objectives than its own. Finally, let me also thank the President-in-Office for his excellent work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3722	In general, as it is often called, I can join the case rapporteur and also what Mr Sanner said about the management of the fund itself. The few minutes available, I'd rather use to say something about the challenges we see the fund has in the future. If I take the Staten pension fund Norway first, I basically agree with the representative Kleppa now expressed, namely to assess their investment mandate. I noticed during the hearing that the fund itself stated that investments in infrastructure are absolutely interesting, which Kleppa was also involved. That's what we're agreeing to. In the case of the State pension fund abroad, it is clear that with as large an investment area as you have – as many companies you are involved in – there will still be questions about whether you should be in the company ‘a’ to ‘z’. It is easy to understand that there can be a quick debate on individual companies. Let me at least point to some areas where we see some dilemmas. For example: rain forest, this will very much agree to do what we can to prevent deforestation. At the same time, there is reason to ask whether we, with the other hand through the SPU, are involved in investing in companies that are opposed to the policy we otherwise have, which is in fine language called coherence. I am aware that the state pension fund abroad has this issue in mind, but I think we still have challenges in this way. We are promoting some proposals in this matter, they have already been mentioned. This applies both in the field of ethics, in the field of investment in poor countries and also in the environment. We think that's the right signal to give, and we're also excited to see the conclusions of the Strategy Council, not least when it comes to the ethical administration. For this fund, a strong legitimacy in the Norwegian people – that is the Norwegian people’s savings we manage – is needed, and then the goal of a return cannot be at the expense of fundamental human rights or the environment, to mention some of the key elements of the ethical code. Otherwise, the issue of extending the ethical guidelines for government bonds has been raised from several quarters. It is not a simple affair – I am aware of this – but we are nevertheless promoting the following proposals: we are asking the government to carry out a new and more thorough review of the possibilities for developing ethical guidelines for government bonds, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based. This with transparency criteria is simply because, in many situations, we experience that countries are dealing with debt that is actually illegitimate, by not having the necessary base in their own country to absorb the loans they actually make. Then I have to be allowed to mention a relationship. On the SV side, not from the Swedish Financial Committee member, but from foreign policy spokesperson, we have been served in several rounds on the Israeli boycott request in different contexts. Then it is paradoxically pleasing – from my point of view, of course – that the fund has now started investing in Israeli government bonds. We congratulate you on that. It is safe to spread risks and ensure that you get a better investment and return for the investment than you would otherwise have. Finally, it was also interesting to hear Rytman’s – what to say – different ideas about where to invest in the future: gold, green forests and art. For a moment I hoped that now we'd get a support for Edvard Munch and a new museum, but it wasn't the museum, so it was the art that was supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3742	The President has registered that the representative has referred to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3745	Then I take them up as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3750	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3753	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job. Large revenues from the petroleum sector have contributed to the Norwegian State now managing significant financial assets through the State pension fund abroad. It is managed in a way that is reason to be proud of, and that we should essentially continue with. I am absolutely sure that most parliamentarians would like to have just the debate we have today – on how we should manage our common wealth in the best possible way for future generations. The investment strategy of the State pension fund abroad has, of course, been characterised by moderate risks and investments in known markets and objects. It's made sense. However, now is the time to adjust the rate somewhat: the Left wants the State pension fund abroad to invest more heavily in socially responsible and sustainable businesses and in future-oriented sectors such as renewable energy and other climate-friendly activities. In addition, the Fund should invest more in emerging markets, which has been shown in recent years to yield far better returns than investment in rich countries. We have a special responsibility for good morals and ethics. The objectives of a broad majority in this Chamber must also be reflected in the activity of the Norwegian State, through the SPU, leading in other countries. Therefore, the aim of returns in SPU must never be at the expense of human rights or the environment. Therefore, we should now assess the financial and climate policy risks involved by the fact that SPU is currently heavily invested in oil and coal companies. SPU should not make investments that are incompatible with the global climate objective of a maximum of 2 °C temperature increase. The left has proposed a number of times and has been called for to strengthen the ethics of the fund. The Ethics Council needs more resources so that the Council can deal with more cases and ensure that companies are excluded from the Fund if they violate the Fund's ethical guidelines. In addition, to the extent possible, we want to apply a best-in-class filtering to part of the fund's portfolio, so that the company also actively invests in the most sustainable companies, and not only focuses on avoiding the worst. Today, one-sixth of the wealth is invested in government bonds. This form of lending is not regulated by Norwegian or international guidelines. Therefore, the Left considers that a requirement for transparency in policy-making processes in the issuer country must be a prerequisite for the fund to invest in government bonds. There have been several people already. In addition, the left will allocate capital from oil resources to investments within two priority areas. One part shall have a mandate to develop and invest in infrastructure and companies that can contribute to sustainable growth in developing countries where there are good returns and acceptable risks. The second part shall have a climate mandate and invest in renewable energy and other climate-friendly activities, both in rich and poor countries. These investments should not be included in the mandate of the SPU but should be invested and managed on the basis of a mandate and an acceptable risk profile adapted to the sustainable development and greenhouse gas emission targets, with a view to long-term profitability. This will be good for Norway and to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions as a whole. In the event of an incubation, the Left has not become the co-rapporteur for proposals No. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party. As we can see from the comments in the setting, we are just going to discuss what is being proposed here. The left would therefore like to inform us here and now that we want to vote in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3772	The announcement we are discussing today about the State pension fund Norway and the state pension fund abroad is about the long-term choices and how to manage our common savings money. The debate and the communication are also intended to contribute to transparency and a broad debate on the management of the Fund, in other words: interaction with and anchoring in the Biggest of the main pathways ahead of both Funds. Looking at both SPU and SPN, we achieved the good results last year. It was low costs. I find reason to commend both funds for the job you have done, and the way you manage our common savings. If you look at SPU, the starting point for the investment strategy is to try to achieve the highest possible return within what is called moderate risk. That is why I have now gradually expanded investments to include both new countries and new types of investment and companies. By the turn of the year, we had invested in 72 countries. In the 2011 Communication, we included: several changes in the reference index of the Fund and the aim was to achieve an even wider geographical distribution of the investment. In this year’s communication, we discuss several aspects of the strategy and follow up decisions taken in recent years, but no changes have been made to the reference index or to the mandates of the Norwegian Bank and the Swedish Social Security Fund. It is such that the investment strategy has been developed gradually and over time. We have presented broad, professional assessments of the choices behind it. It's a force. In recent years, we have dealt with several major issues about the investment strategy, and in some cases we have made major changes. In other cases, the conclusion has been that we are not making any change. If we look at the handling of notifications in recent years, they clearly show that there is a broad majority supporting the current investment strategy of the Pension Fund. It is, like other speakers, that we manage these two funds on behalf of the Norwegian people, and in the role of the responsible investor, we have to preserve values in the broadest sense. We need to secure long-term returns, and in my view, it is closely related to the role of the responsible investor. We have gained extensive experience in the work on responsible investments. The Bank of Norway manages the SPU and is responsible for the exercise of ownership. The Ethics Council monitors the portfolio and advises on the exclusion or observation of the company. The Ministry of Finance, which owns the SPU, is responsible for defining the overall strategy and making decisions on exclusion following advice from the Ethics Council. Ever since we received ethical guidelines in 2004, we have been working continuously to strengthen the work of responsible investment. This is a work that is under development all the time, and it is also the background that we have given the Strategy Council for the SPU a mandate to submit a report on the Fund's overall strategy in this field. That report will be submitted until the autumn and the conclusions of the Strategy Council and the Ministry’s assessment will be included in the 2013 Communication and presented to the Stortinget for discussion. We will ensure that the Ethics Council has sufficient resources to carry out its work. At the same time, the increase in the Fund's size does not automatically imply the need for a direct increase in the Ethics Fund's resource needs. The Council shall assess the activities of companies and the number of companies in the portfolio does not increase by the size of the portfolio. Nor have we based the system on the fact that the Ethics Council should have an in-depth knowledge of all the companies, but they should capture cases where other control and monitoring mechanisms do not extend. That's the way it is, really: oil has given us a starting point that is a few other countries neglected. But having a large natural resource is not in itself enough. It has many countries with large natural resources. In order to benefit from such a gift as petroleum, it must be managed for the benefit of the population in a good and long-term way, and I believe we have made that clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3796	As the president may have heard, I kept my post and took some reflections from the time that Stortinget and Norway's Bank sold Norway's gold stock. I wonder if the Council of State has any point of view on that – whether he now seems to be after him, of course, it was a less wise decision to sell, possibly at least to sell at that time, when one later sees that many other states have hammed their gold reserves. Some examples are found that some have sold, but you can see among other things. the gold price has increased by more than 400 pst since 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3801	When making a decision, for example: the sale of the gold stock assesses the prospects there and then. One looks both backwards and maybe forward, and then makes a decision. Then it might turn out in retrospect that one has ‘stopped’ it to sell, that one could earn to keep the gold stock, or one could actually have seen that one had waited too long because the price went down. I believe that in the light of the post-war, it is difficult to re-make decisions that you made at some point. Decisions must be taken from the best knowledge at the time. In the case of the State pension fund abroad, it has the great advantage that it is a long-term fund — one that is a long-term investor. That also means that one, for example, can withstand fluctuations in the stock market and thus have a longer-term view of management.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3810	During the consultation on the announcement of the State pension fund abroad, I challenged the Minister of Finance on the opposition's proposal for an evaluation related to the way we have organised the Pension Fund. The Minister of Finance then opened up to make such an assessment at the beginning of the next period. The Minister of Finance said — to be more precise — that it is natural for a new increase to make such an assessment. How does the Minister for Finance see such an evaluation possible? Will there be an internal assessment in the Ministry of Finance, or will there be a somewhat broader evaluation and assessment of future organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3817	As I said in that hearing, it's natural that one at the beginning of a big period will deal with and discuss in Stortinget some major issues relating to the management of the fund, as we did in 2010 when a discussed question about the organisation. At that time, a lot of changes had been made in the way this was organized, and then the argument was that we should see how this works over time, so that the changes we've made get settled. I think it would make sense now to look at what happened during the four-year period. We have not taken a position on how we should organise it in practice, but I stand by my promise that in the 2013 Communication, one will add up to a discussion about these things, based on both experience and a little thought about what the future looks like. I think it makes sense and useful that one at regular intervals has that kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3824	I'll try to get two questions in a short time. First of all, a little bit around that state council was inside, openness. How will the Council of State view the fund's ongoing publication of votes at general meetings? Secondly, during the consultation, there were some analyses of how the State pension fund can be seen to invest abroad in the future and the weighting in the different markets. Does the Council of State agree that, in the future, there may be an even greater need to change the weighting, in order to go into emerging markets with greater weight, also in view of the return we want on the fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3834	On the question of transparency, there was a discussion that came up a little while ago. There, Norway’s Bank also expressed their intention to organise it in the future, with more regular reporting. I'm basically satisfied with the line that NBIM put on, and I think it's a reasonable position that one gets a more continuous and regular reporting. But in addition, it's a fairly large number of companies. It is clear that it is more extensive when a owner of 7,000 companies than if one had ten companies. With regard to weighting, we made major changes to the 2011 Annual Report. I think it's important that someone now sees how this turns out. Some of those changes will also lead to an increase in investment in emerging economies from about 6 to about 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3841	The Left believes that the Ethics Council needs more resources, so that the Council can deal with more cases and ensure that companies are excluded from the Fund if it violates the Fund's ethical guidelines, as I said in my statement. Then I heard – at least I interpreted the Minister of Finance's posts as such – that he thought this had no meaning and that it would be more ethical to strengthen the Ethics Fund. My question then is whether I interpreted the Minister of Finance correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3848	What I said was that there is no automatic link between the increase in the fund and an equivalent automatic resource access to the Ethics Council, because what the Ethics Council is looking at are individual companies. So here's the number of individual companies the fund invests in, which is what matters. In fact, over a period of time, one has now reduced the number of companies in which the fund is incorporated, so that it now has about 7 000 companies. What matters to me is that the fund should have sufficient resources. I think it makes sense to look at this in the context of the report that is now coming from the Strategy Council, where both the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ethics and the Bank of Norway together will look at how best to make the best possible use of those resources in the field of ethics. So it would be natural to bring it when this report is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3855	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 23 and 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3871	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to four lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3880	This is the fourth and last time we are dealing with the annual financial market messages of this majority period. If we look a little bit in the mirror and look back, I think there are few policy fields that have received equivalent international and national attention as regulation of financial markets in the last four years. The financial crisis taught us that when it breaks in the financial industry, it quickly enters the rest of society. There are also few areas that are now facing as profoundly new regulation as the financial industry will in the next few years. It is probably far from the last time we have debates in this Chamber on how financial markets will look in the future. That being said, the Norwegian financial industry is varied, strong, solid and well equipped for the future. The banks and financial institutions are a crucial part of the Norwegian economy. Through lending to owner-occupiers and loans to small and large enterprises, banks support development, innovation and growth both for individuals and businesses across the country. At the same time, there is broad international agreement to raise minimum capital requirements for banks. Solid banks are secure banks, and secure banks are good for the stability of the Norwegian economy. The likelihood of banking crises is reduced. The size is treated as known last week, something earlier than we are obliged under the EEA Agreement, what the requirements will look like mainly for the banks in the future. It was an important clarification, which the industry itself has asked for. Conditions are now well suited for deployment. And although there are still questions, among other things. on the concreteisation of capital requirements and the basis for calculation, we have now taken important steps in the right direction. Then there is still considerable work to be done in relation to other parts of the Norwegian financial market. This needs to be handled gradually beyond the next accumulation period. We know, among other things: that the new EU rules for insurance companies – so-called Solvency II – will pose challenges for Norwegian life insurance companies. Increased capital requirements in combination with low interest rates and increasing life expectancy, which increase the value of company liabilities, present a not insignificant challenge in the future. In this field, the government has announced clarifications on the legislation in autumn 2013. An overall committee meets such clarification in the timing of the financial market notification. Finally, two brief comments on issues specifically addressed in the year’s communication. Firstly, it is an overall committee, although I have to add that the Christian People's Party will probably go a little further, which believes it is positive that the government has made proposals for changes in the way the Financial Complaint Study works. Together with the previously notified measures to enhance consumer legal certainty, the changes will significantly improve consumer protection in the financial market area. Consumer confidence in financial markets is a key concern. Secondly, an overall committee has also concluded that assessments of the so-called financial infrastructure – i.e. the risk of failure, crime and other threats to the online payment solutions – are inherent in the assessment of the soundness of the financial market. It is good that there is a comprehensive treatment of this in the report of the year, and I personally believe that this is also a field we are going to follow closely up in the years that are coming. It's become a very well-informed part of the private economy of people and the economy of companies, and we're extremely vulnerable when the technology doesn't work. The community just gets paralysed. With this, I'm going to present the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3906	Nordea Markets announced yesterday that the speed of the Norwegian economy is clearly weaker. Nordea estimates the growth in the purchasing power of the Nordics at 2.5 pst. this year. This has been the weakest development since 2001. An hour later, the NHO came with similar messages. Their members look darker on the future. The market situation is the weakest since the autumn of 2010. To quote: ‘We are witnessing a severe brake application. Investments are growing weaker both on the mainland and on the pedestal. Households are more cautious. We expect this to happen in 2014.’ The warnings from Nordea Markets and the NHO are clear. It is therefore not possible to regulate itself out of crisis, but sensible and balanced regulation contributes to stability. Any regulation has a cost. That cost is someone who has to pay. Regulation costs are not as obvious to most people, and to many they may seem invisible, but they are there. Increased equity means less money in circulation and indirectly less potential for economic growth. Increased equity must be recovered through retained profits, lower dividends, higher interest margins, capital calls or cost cuts, or a combination of those instruments. But, as I said, the financial market needs regulation, and in an international financial market, it is obvious that such regulation is international and that it will come into force at the same time. The first condition meets the government. The EEA Agreement ensures this. However, the Progress Party is sceptical that the government is committed to implementing international regulations before the deadline, and long before our competitors do the same. It's the recipe for losing competitiveness. Against this background, the party of progress is particularly pleased that the government has abandoned the plans to introduce a tax on its own activities in the financial sector. There was a nice conversation theme here – a few years ago, what was especially SV's golden calf, that is, an extra tax on the financial industry. Fortunately, it's gone, and I hope for good. The world around us is marked by great instability. This instability can spread rapidly to Norway. Of course, the government wants to present it as a result of its own policy, but I think that we should all be so honest that we admit that our large money supply has made it possible to continue various sickness and social security schemes. The number of Norwegians employed in private activities is not particularly impressive. I also record that the government mentions three factors that it believes affect the vulnerability of the financial system: low interest rates, high mortgages and higher life expectancy. The first two are probably very much in agreement, but mentioning the joy of people living longer, as a financial burden, becomes macabre and unworthy. Many older people already feel that they are a burden to society. They're not. It must never be seen as a problem that people live any longer. It is actually a goal of research, medicine and politics that people live longer. If the cost of longevity is high, the government should rather encourage people to stay longer in work — less in social security. It may take a long time to build up financial values, but they can quickly disappear. In an uncertain and unstable world, building socially profitable infrastructure is one of the wisest things we can do. Converting financial assets into assets is an investment in lasting values. And let it be said from this pulpit from the Progress Party that it will be a stock market shock, there will be a huge fall in the stock exchange values around the world, and our values are raging, we have warned: we should and should still invest in infrastructure. It won't disappear in a stockpile.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3924	First of all, commend the Committee, which in a difficult case, as the financial market communication writes down a lot. The financial market notification 2012, and to the extent that further developments towards 2013, show that Norway is in a special position. The Norwegian model is the main explanation of this, of course, along with the huge oil money, the expansion in the North Sea, and not least a good return in the State pension fund abroad. We've nevertheless chosen to signal political disagreement on some points, and we'll do it in chronological order. Both the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party also have this year a note that criticises the 15 p.m. rule used by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Housing prices continue to rise, those that are usually meant to be affected, receive funding either through parents or through credit cards, and many receive funding through municipal start-up loans or government banks. So we have a note on that. Then it's a very big topic that's been up for years now, on both European and Norwegian scale. It is that everyone wants safe banks, but not necessarily everyone has seen the need to have a competitive financial industry in a relatively small country like Norway. There's also a difference between the red-greens on the one hand and most of the bourgeois parties on the other. We write in the notes here that it is somewhat alarming that the government does not use the occasion for the financial market notification to comment on or analyse the likely negative effects of more stringent Norwegian requirements and faster implementation than in other countries. We see in Dagbladet yesterday that the government party SV guarantees a new activity tax, which will come to the top of all other requirements in the financial sector. We have been concerned that there is a significant impact on Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises that will finance loans to build up and create new jobs and secure existing jobs. The government has had extremely little focus on the possible consequences of it. Several companies and associations report investment problems precisely because banks hold back their loans. Like the Chair of the Financial Committee, we also support the four amendments – to call it that – that are now included in the Financial Complaints. One is that the chairperson and vice-chairperson of the candidates shall be a highly qualified lawyer who is neutral towards the parties to the contract. It's time -- they should almost have been from day one. Extending the denominators from five to seven members will also help increase competence, and if there is disagreement, it could be more broadly reflected. The fact that the Secretariat of the Financial Complaint is to provide guidance on complaints is a strength for many of them who complain. But the most important thing for us in what comes out now is that the individual bank or insurance company, or whatever it may be, that loses and does not want to respect denominator statements, has to take the cost of legal proceedings itself. For us, it's a very important consumer aspect. The Financial Market Communication 2012 shows that Norway is doing well in a world with major challenges. It's good with unanimity on most things. For the Right, we had appreciated more that the government involved the Stortinget in order to create a more unanimous consensus on the major changes in the financial sector. It almost looks as if SV has had a little too much influence on the government, rather than that we get an overall approach with a broad compromise across the whole Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3939	To the representative, I can say that it is absolutely correct that SV has a lot to say and has a great influence on Norwegian policy. That's why the country is doing very well. At the centre of this Communication is the orientation of developments in the international financial market and the measures put in place by the government to regulate the Norwegian financial market, so that this industry is robust enough to withstand the crisis in the European economy should affect Norway. The situation is still uncertain. The experience of the Norwegian banking crisis in the 1990s is also important when dealing with the situation today. It is an experience that, not least the current Minister of Finance, is well aware of when he was also Minister of Finance at the time. It'll be fine. The Committee notes that there is unanimity on the premises on which the own funds requirements currently adopted in relation to the Norwegian banking market have been assessed. The description of the situation in the Norwegian economy versus the situation in the European economy suggests that we cannot have the same regulatory measures in Norway as in Europe. Norwegian banks are doing well and have large profits. The new requirements for equity will be good for the banking industry as a whole, as they are earned with confidence and stability. Therefore, it is strange that the opposition skips when we address concrete actions and the implementation of what underlies how we should deal with the situation. They then believe that the requirements are coming too quickly, that they should be the same as in Europe, that they go beyond Norwegian business, that we get capital-dried, and that it goes beyond the borrowers. The arguments put forward in the opposition comments are almost identical to those of the financial industry input in the hearing. In this context, it should not be surprising that, when such regulatory measures are implemented, there may be protests from the banking and financial industries. It is not unknown either here in the country or in Europe. But the experience – and that’s the key point – from the crisis last time was that government and the Storting must govern economic policy on an independent basis, regardless of pressure from not least this industry, in order to secure the country’s economy. Then it is interesting to note that the opposition is not willing to take control of issues that are so crucial for a stable and secure economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3954	The debate on the financial market notification 2012 is marked by the uncertain nature of the world economy and by measures that need to be monitored sooner or later to ensure financial stability. Stortinget treats last week Prop. 96 L for increasing capital requirements for banks. There was a broad deal about the proposals made by the government, and also the agreement that it was in Norwegian interest to implement the measures while we are in a pre-war position and are so lucky to have a robust financial industry. An overall committee expresses concern in the setting that more and more households in Norway have a debt burden that makes them vulnerable to higher interest rates, increased unemployment or falls in housing prices. Neither housing prices nor households have ever been as high as they are now. Low interest rates dampen the effects of this. The Committee agrees with the reality description, but draws different conclusions when it comes to actions put in place to mitigate the risk of impacts on the Norwegian economy. This can be about both customers who cannot borrow and banks who have to take large losses on loans. Both are dramatic for the direct debt and for the social economy. According to this understanding, the majority has their requirements for 15 p.m. for the Financial Supervisory Authority. capital and reserves through the purchase of buildings. The opposition will eliminate or reduce its requirements. I don't think it's wise conclusions from the common reality description we have in the committee setting. I would then like to express my satisfaction with the follow-up to the Stortinget's appeal decision of 2012, where the government was asked to evaluate the organisation of the Financial Complaints Board with a view to strengthening the legal certainty of the complainants. A number of actions have been outlined to ensure that financial complaints are monitored and implemented by their contracting parties. Complaints will be easier to file, the composition of the complaints will be reviewed, and better guidance will be provided to the public on the right of appeal and how to design a complaint. I am also satisfied with the insurance in the financial market notification that it is being worked to ensure that the Norwegian inlet guarantee is maintained. The EU's wish for full harmonisation of the coverage level to EUR 100000 will reduce the value of our national guarantee by 60 pst. From the Centre Party's side, we would like to stress that it is not appropriate to weaken the Norwegian effort to secure our national inlet guarantee. The operation of Norway’s Bank is more extensive and significant than that of most national banks. As in other countries, they have a role to play in monetary, credit and currency policy, but Norway’s Bank is also assigned to the administration of the State pension fund abroad. There has been a very important role to play, which we have just discussed. It is the government that appoints the board of directors of Norway Bank, while the Stortinget appoints the board of directors. The representativeness's control and supervisory responsibilities are important, and the message refers to their direct responsibilities towards Stortinget, by which the representative's message about the operation – which we also deal with today – should be sent directly to Stortinget and not through the Ministry of Finance, as in the past. The Financial Market Communication 2012 states that one should be open to see more closely how its role can be further developed, inter alia. in the selection of the Governing Council. It is also mentioned in the Committee's note to the Bureau's communication to the Grand Duchy. In the Central Party, we are positive for strengthening the role of representation. It will be able to provide the representativeness – and the indirect size, as an awarding body – with an appropriate function, if, for example: The representation is given a role when Norway Bank’s main board of directors and the bank’s board of directors are to be appointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3980	This Communication – the Financial Market Communication – provides a back ground for concern in Europe, where ‘it is difficult to predict in advance what disruptions the economy may be facing in the face of new crises’, as the Committee notes. I basically agree with the committee leader's overall view of this and don't have much to add to it. A few other comments: As for the disagreement on the equity requirement, I would say from the Christian People's Party that last week we agreed to the government's proposal for increased capital requirements for the financial industry. Through that, we have stated that it is important that we have a solid capital base for the Norwegian financial industry. However, as the results have been in relation to the new equity requirement, we believe that the government has taken too easily on the effect these changes have actually had. If one listens to those who are now in the market, it's actually that we're facing a more classified housing sector than in many, many years. Even a newly educated academic couple, with solid prospects for both pay and soundness, now have no chance of finding housing on their own. They must either have recourse to parents or capital by other means — even through consumer loans — or go to the home bank, take up start-up loans or steal money from the type of activity that, after all, implies some limited means of obtaining a loan. I do not think the argument that one must have such a general claim is made with the greatest conviction. I think it would have been better to exercise an individual judgement in each individual case in these matters. So to the subject of the Financial Complaint: last year we proposed a proposal for significant changes to the system we have today. The current Advocate General, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, took this very seriously, and the opposition was given a positive decision for once. It's been working in the Ministry of Finance, and we're happy about that, too, by the Christian People's Party. I refer to our proposal in the vote. We want primarily to get a completely independent state denominator. We're doing that with the background of what we've seen of how the denominator has worked to now. However, I am pleased with the clear changes in the consumer-friendly direction proposed by the government, when it is first put into practice the framework for consideration, as one does. The problem is that – and I can't help saying that – there has been too high a threshold for many. When consumers themselves have to use a lawyer to get in kind with the subject, something is not working. What is generally serious is that financial institutions have to a great extent adapted to the fact that the term does not at all care about what has happened to oral contact between customers and banking. It then has the financial institutions adapted to the degrees by making sure to massage the customers for a long time before something comes in writing, which is then signed. For Norwegian finance and banking, I think it must be a big cross of thoughts to see how you have treated your customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e3999	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4002	I want to use the opportunity to include two things in my post. One is strict capital requirements. While strict capital requirements may be reasonable, the necessary flexibility must be demonstrated, as the representative of Syversen was also involved. As stated in the notes, all opposition parties are critical to the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority for 15 pst. equity in the purchase of the dwelling and amazement at the zeal of the government parties after defending it. In 2013, the same lots increased the appropriations for the operating costs of the housing loan scheme in the State Pension Fund by 37 million. kr or 71 pst., compared to the 2012 current budget, because the timing of the scheme has increased dramatically. In other words, the grant is increased to a government loan scheme which does not impose the same capital requirements as the same parties consider necessary for those who are not members of the State Pension Fund. The same applies to the House Bank, which was also the representative of Syversen. Municipalities report an increase in the number of applications and granted start-up loans through the Husbank. Therefore, the increased requirement for equity needs to be reviewed and replaced by other instruments, such as requirements for loan security and better arrangements for saving for owner-occupied dwellings through residential savings for young people. The left considers it reasonable to impose an indicative equity requirement of 10 pst. in the case of the purchase of a dwelling, but will allow banks to exercise discretion in loan commitments, inter alia. based on prospects for future income. The second thing I want to address is access to loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. These holdings constitute the backbone of Norwegian business. Over 99 pst. by enterprises in Norway have 100 employees or fewer. One of the main challenges facing business is access to capital, including: through loans from the banks. As a result of new and stricter capital requirements, bank lending to business is now falling. The long-term consequences can be considerable if this is a continuing development. As part of the EU regulation on new capital requirements – to which Norway is obliged to comply – a provision has been introduced to encourage banks to grant credit to small and medium-sized enterprises. These are borrowers who would be particularly likely to be affected when, as a result of stricter capital requirements, banks tighten their lending practices. It is therefore very important that Norway have the same understanding of the EU Regulation on new capital requirements, so that small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway are treated in the same way as the countries around us as regards the possibility of obtaining loans and access to capital within the framework of a common regulatory framework. Unfortunately, both the Minister of Finance and the Government parties are reluctant about this point. The importance of small and medium-sized enterprises is often referred to by the government parties in this room. But this does not reflect – as the Left sees it – in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4015	I think there is a broad consensus on the importance of the financial industry, or the significance of what you can call the financial infrastructure, both for the country, for businesses and for individuals. We have a lot of knowledge about how bad things can go when things go wrong first. Therefore, it is important that one in the work it does in this area, both in Norway and internationally, learns from history and uses knowledge, so that one can avoid building vulnerability into the financial system in good times. There is still considerable uncertainty internationally, and we also see that this can impact on the Norwegian economy. For this reason, there is a wide range of work both in Norway and internationally to develop new regulation and supervision and to strengthen the soundness of the financial industry. For Norway: when the economy is doing well, when there are good results in the financial industry, when there are opportunities, as I see it now, we have to build reserves. Often it is, and it is also a lesson from history, that it is in good times that one can make mistakes and lose a little bit of sight – which means that one has to pay dearly later, as we said instead. There are some challenges in the future, both in Norway and internationally, in financial industries. One is that we now have very low interest rates, both internationally and in Norway, and the effect of low interest rates over time, as it appears on the day it becomes more normalized, is an important issue to focus on. We see that there has been a significant flow of liquidity both in European and US banks. What happens to the day when it is necessary to withdraw any of this? On a slightly smaller scale, we have the fact that one in several countries has a long margin on loans combined with low interest rates. What happens on the day of the repayment, and higher interest rates enter, which they will do at one time or another? There are many things to consider within this industry. The size has complied with the New Capital Requirements Act. That's good. There was a broad consensus on that. There's a couple of elements left in this. One is the so-called countercyclical buffer, where we aim to send a proposal for consultation rather soon. The other thing that remains is a regulation on the risk weights of mortgages, which are also worked with the Ministry of Finance. A third point that we will also refer to is the need to have as much equal competitive conditions as possible for banks operating in Norway. That's why we're still working on opportunities for optimal Nordic coordination right at that point. As regards the deposit-guarantee scheme, it is important, as has been pointed out in the previous debate. Here it has stopped a little in the EU, in the sense that we have not yet made a decision, but I can promise the Storting – and it is easy to do, with the backing you have in Stortinget – that we are going on, and that we will endure in terms of fighting for Norway’s position in relation to the good depositor guarantee scheme we have. Finally, I would like to say the following: Solid banks are an advantage. It's an advantage for the country, it's an advantage for the companies, and it's an advantage for us who trust banks our savings. But it is also important, as the representative Syversen said, that we get good advice, and that a good and healthy banking trade is carried out in this way. Solid banks and a solid financial industry should also be able to contribute to confidence – in the individual, but not least in the market, in order to give Norwegian banks the best possible deposit conditions. I want to end with a quote from the outgoing governor of England, Mervyn King, who said, "Banks are global in life and local in death." It is the responsibility of the individual bank and the responsibility of each country to ensure that we have solid banks, because that day something happens, that crises must be handled locally, there and then. In other words, we must be prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4044	There will be a line chord shift limited to up to five lines. The first representative is Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4047	I thought there were four lines, but it's okay with five!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4052	There should be four lines of answers – and it should be!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4055	The government introduces increased capital requirements for Norwegian banks earlier than required. It increases the cost of the banks. As a consequence, DNB announced that it would increase the interest rate by 0.3 pst. The main shareholder of the bank reacted to this, namely the government itself. But a little earlier, we experienced that the bank's main shareholder took out and voted for an increase of 3 billion. kr from DNB. Then I stunned a little, because just two minutes ago the council said that solid banks were a prerequisite. And if solid banks are a prerequisite, then why take out $3 billion? Do you think the bank will be solid when one then has to raise the capital requirement? There was a little bit of squalor here, that it went out on most people, who got higher interest rates, while the government is going to have their 3rds. kr on book? Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4060	There is no doubt that solid banks are both correct and sensible, and solid banks can provide a few in several ways. One way is to follow up the capital requirements that the Storting has now adopted. The second is that a well-managed banker, who gives confidence to the bank in question. As far as the issue of dividends is concerned, it is in the case of limited liability companies that the Board of Directors determines the dividend. The DNB Board consists of representatives from different owners with different shares, among others. The 34 pst. as the State has, and the 66 pst. which private owners have. It was the board's recommendation that went through, including with the consequence that the state is receiving dividends. But it doesn't depend on the fact that one now has to hold back the dividends in order to build capital in banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4067	In yesterday's Newspaper, SV's director commented on a proposal to introduce a tax of 9 billion. kr on the following grounds, that both the Workers' Party and the Centre have indicated a positive attitude towards financial taxation. The light slide further boasts that this grip is similar to what the government recently did by increasing the taxation of the oil sector. For a few weeks now, the right has been looking for who is going to pay more when others are going to pay less in taxes. Then the Minister of Finance has a chance: can the Minister of Finance guarantee that, for the rest of his period, but also if the government – against assumption – should be reelected, will not introduce financial taxes in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4074	There is work going on internationally with a financial tax, and what Norway has said there is that we support the international initiative that is taking place, but what we have also stressed is that if it does, it is important that it is introduced at the same time in many countries. That's the international picture. Then it is that the tax promise stands firm. This means that the 2004 level of taxation applies, and we will also use it in a new red-green government. The third thing I want to say is that in the 2013 down payment proposition, on pages 215-217, we mentioned an investigation of an activity tax for the financial industry as an alternative to an ordinary value added tax. It's a complicated area to go into. We're going to get back to this. And this is the government's policy; there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4083	Then the President will have clarity in the debate, because on the President's screen there are five lines, but it may indicate that a four-line speech time arrangement has been adopted, and if there is agreement on that, then there are two replies again – first the representative Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4086	If you agree with the fifth line, it depends on who got it!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4091	Therefore, the President did not mention who would have it!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4095	I guess it wouldn't have been signed anyway. There was an interesting exchange of lines between the Minister of Finance and Arve Kambe. What the Minister of Finance is now saying is that there should not even be negotiations with SV after any new election season. It is already clear that the 2004 level – the new tax code for the red-green – is fixed. It was okay to clarify. So my question is: when the Council of State does not reject activity taxes in principle, but sees this in an international context, i.e. that if it is to come, there will be similar tax relief in other areas – is that understood correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4104	It is in what I say that from my point of view the tax promise is fixed. That means that that's the tax level you're looking at. What's happening internationally is probably a longer canvas to bleach. Although a consensus was reached in the EU, it is a long way to go before one is there – including in the EU. So what I think is important for our part in Norway is to go on with the investigation that I referred to, which is mentioned in the 2013 budget, to look at the possibility of finding an alternative to an ordinary value added tax for the financial industry. There's an investigation going on. It's a complicated piece of work, but here we have, both in the national budget and in the tax proposition, pointed to the work going on. That's what the government is doing in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4113	In my post, I talked about lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Will the Minister of Finance make sure that loans to small and medium-sized enterprises become what they are in the countries around us?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4120	It is a little difficult to answer because it is clear that having a solid banking system that gets the best deposit terms is also a prerequisite for lending to large, small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, it will be a little up to the companies themselves, the projects they have, and the projects they want to finance. But I assume that for Norwegian banks, with the soundness and good competitive position they have, they will also be able to provide good and reasonable loans to small and medium-sized enterprises – and to sensible projects in general. I see no reason why it should not be like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4127	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4132	Firstly, it is quite interesting to see that the Minister of Finance has already established what red-green policy should be in the next period. He also cancelled SV's election campaign in Dagbladet yesterday, where it said that we should not only have a financial levy, but that one should have net increased revenues from it. It has now been cancelled by the Minister of Finance. It says it's about who has the power of this government. A new government with today's opposition parties, I think, would rather negotiate and agree with each other, rather than cancel each other's policies. So I'm happy to belong to the right side of Norway. That's where it's allowed to think and talk. So to what I should really take the floor for: I was a little surprised then, for example. The representative Meltveit Kleppa spoke about the importance of having equity requirements in place, for now it was important to regulate the borrowing situation in the housing sector. In the same budget as this government has provided, there is once again an increased loan framework for the House Bank – one has more than doubled it in a few years. In the same revised budget, therefore, the loan capital of the State pension fund increases by 12.5 billion. kr. There's more than a double in just a few years. So while you're talking about private banks having to be restrictive with their loans, the state banks can get more than double their loans. I cannot see that government loans have a different effect in the housing market than private ones. It just means that either you're running a business with people when you're later like you're tightening up, or this is an attempt at pure state capitalism. I don't know what's worse. But what is also striking is that when we have asked the Ministry of Finance about the consequences of the House Bank being allowed to borrow more money, what is the consequence of the State pension fund being lent more money to the housing market, is the answer that there will be no effect in the Norwegian economy, because this will only replace other sources of loans. There is, of course, state capitalism, because when one says that the House Bank gets more money, but that just means that they are going to replace the loans of private banks, it doesn't have any result, net, on the housing market. It just has something to do with who are the actors as mortgage brokers. I don't think it makes sense for the state to take over the risk from private banks and just pretend to be more responsible. One should also make sure that there were good regulations for the banks. We're working on that. But this equity requirement becomes very artificial when private banks are forced to borrow less, while state banks take only the loan portfolio. I should like to hear the logical reasoning of the representative Meltveit Kleppa and other red-green politicians as to why it is more responsible when the government lends money to the housing market than when private lending. I look forward to a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4145	Here are some brief comments from me, and first about taxes: I just have to say that I think maybe the opposition – led by the Right, with an ambition to cut Norwegian taxes by 25 billion. kr, and the second largest opposition party, who will choose to cut the taxes by up to 100 billion. kr – first they would sit together and form a realistic picture of how much they would together cut Norwegian taxes, before they interfere with the discussion on the red-green side on the tax level. I would say that the discussion in Norway does not go between unchanged or marginally higher taxes, which SV has a known position, and which we have a completely relaxed relationship with. It must be a perfectly legitimate matter to flag what you think about this. They did the same before the 2009 elections. However, the government has been guided by the promise made before the 2005 elections. Rather, the opposition should be prepared to discuss the consequences of some massive tax cuts, as proposed by the Progress Party, and not quite so massive but quite powerful tax cuts, as proposed by the Right, and what will be the consequence of them, instead of interfering in such a kind of discussion. We have had this discussion several times, but I cannot fail to comment that if it were to happen that Jan Tore Sanner or Ketil Solvik-Olsen or anyone else on the civil side would become Minister of Finance after the election, one of the first things they would do, with the support of the other, smaller opposition parties, is to go up to the Ministry of Finance and send instructions to the Financial Supervisory Authority – an independent professional supervision – that what they have recommended on the best professional basis to do is now to ignore the Norwegian authorities. The instruction should be: Back to where we were before! One may disregard the equity requirement that banks are now subject to. It is not right, as has been said a number of times, both in the public and here in the Chamber, that it is not possible to create a separate, individual treatment — and also to go around this requirement if you have a special treatment. It is true that it is more stringent, but the whole point is that when the House Bank and other actors now participate in the housing market, as the Solvik-Olsen points out, it is true that there has been growth. I'm not saying that growth is completely unproblematic. But when you look at the total portfolio, the stock of the private, commercial banks and central banks – that is, both the Pension Fund and the Husbank – it's one to two percent of the total lending stock in Norway. It's not here that the big imbalances are building up. Finally, I would like to add: one of the points is that for people in Norway who otherwise cannot meet the requirements of commercial banks, it is precisely the state and the public actors who take some of the risk – of the stock – of individuals. They're with and carry some of the danger if you can't deal with this in the long term. That's good, and people should understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4158	Yes, it was obviously a sore toe, noting what is the situation on the red-green side. Torgeir Micaelsen now said that we should stay away from getting involved in the discussion on the red-green side. I have not seen any discussion. I've seen a dictatorship from the Workers' Party. So we probably can't interfere with something that's not a discussion, but we'll see the facts. I think the Norwegian people are also interested in hearing about that. So that's the thing about the equity requirement. Yes, now Torgeir Micaelsen actually said what Ketil Solvik-Olsen said to the extent: you transfer more of the housing loan to the state banks, and then you don't have to have the same equity requirement. It is written as Micaelsen's representative said. That's very interesting. It's just that it's a very selective group that gets the relief that the representative boasts about. We had a meeting with the KS just a few weeks ago. Now, the municipalities are going to be far more likely to face the risk that Torgeir Micaelsen seems to be quite right, rather than making an individual assessment on the part of private banks about who can actually operate loans and not with this rigid 15 percent requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4169	Just first to the representative Mikalsen. It's not like when we get into government after the election, the Minister of Finance's office will send an instruction to the Financial Supervisory Authority. If you read the comment from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, it says: ‘These members therefore consider that the increased requirement for equity should be reviewed and replaced by other instruments such as the necessary collateral requirements for loans and improved arrangements for saving for owner-occupied dwellings through Youth Housing Saving’. – and in the pact with what we have already said, several of us, in terms of obtaining funding through state banks, and thus not after net loan reduction. So to this financial tax thing. I find it interesting that the Minister of Finance dismissed SV's proposal less than 24 hours after it arrived. Well, that means that the 9-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr, on which SV is obviously going to run election campaigns, at best – I was going to say a bluff, but I guess I can't say that from Stortinget's pulpit – inaccurate or unclear, because then you have a promise that you know It's quite eye-catching. Then it would have been interesting to know what the SV's member of the Finance Committee thinks about the Minister of Finance from the Stockholm Chair taking down one of the SV's most important election vows before the election campaign is at all, and taking away the full manoeuvrability of SV to pursue the policy that SV's leader today says they should. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that the level of taxation of the Bondevik II government in 2004 was good at that time. We believe that the level of taxation held by the Bondevik II government in 2004 will fall in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. We're going to do that, because in sum, the bourgeois parties have good recipes for tax cuts. We got it done in the last period. We're going to get it one more time. But that is why it is interesting to know that the Minister of Finance is so clearly taking down EN today that there will be no financial tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4185	I think this has been a bit of a strange debate, and maybe the red-greens can learn a little bit from the fact that it is actually possible to be independent parties with their own positions that negotiate a solution. What we found eye-catching from the opposition was the dictate that came from the Minister of Finance on how red-green policy was going to be next year – even before one has seen what the force relationship between the parties is on the red-green side – and I find that a little strange. Therefore, it is natural that the opposition parties go to elections as independent parties and then dimension the policy when one sees how the force ratio becomes. I understand that SV has been used to being cuddled under the red-green government. After all, it has not been many weeks since we heard that the Minister for the Environment had been involved in oil and gas extraction in the Barents Sea south-east, because there was mainly gas, and it was not as dangerous to the environment as the oil is said to be. It's the same batch that was against gas power plants just a few years ago because gas was trapped. So one evolves as long as a liver, and that's good. As far as the Financial Supervisory Authority is concerned, I noticed that the head of the Financial Committee did not dare to talk about the role of the State in this, but only about technicalities about the operation of the Financial Supervisory Authority. However, as others have pointed out after the chairman of the Financial Committee: one therefore chooses to have a role in which one says that government banks are outside the remit of the Financial Supervisory Authority. A lot of money is collected, while the banks within the remit of the Financial Supervisory Authority – which is primarily private – are subject to strong restrictions. This is not particularly responsible for the total banking market, although it is only a few percent. In addition, when one says that the House Bank has an important role, because they're going to give money to people who wouldn't be able to handle the loans, it kind of reminds me of how the financial crisis started in the United States. But not least, the government itself says that the mortgage of the House Bank should not be a net contribution to the Norwegian economy, because it will replace other sources of loan. So what the Financial Committee's head here is based on, the Finance Minister has already rejected, because he says that when one replaces other sources, this is the people who would get loans from private banks if only private banks had been allowed to grant those loans. So I hope the chairman of the finance committee can come up again and try to get a little more precise when he's going to try to answer questions from the opposition. That would have been very good for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4196	I'm not going to spend all my time here. I think it's an interesting discussion about taxes, and it's very nice that we've got this clarified. After all, it's okay to go out and campaign on it once we've got the information already. I look forward to that. So it was a little bit to the chairman of the finance committee, who was talking about 100 billion. kr i taxlet versus 25 br. kr in tax bill. Yeah, who knows? It depends on who becomes the largest party, and who gets the most impact in a government. But maybe we should ask the committee leader if he's registered the estimated 2013 state budget surplus of 380 billion. NOK – 380 billion. kr. The Chairman of the Financial Committee believes that the very best use of the money is to invest it in our competitors – absolutely everything. Brilliant! There are very few people who think it's brilliant, but you do. You're sure, so convinced about and get so much support around for this ingenious chess team by investing in and strengthening our competitors' businesses, instead of trying to build new infrastructure in Norway, or giving back the money to those who own them, namely the Norwegians. That's what the Progress Party primarily wants, and we don't go bankrupt if we do exactly that. Then I want to get back to what I said in my post, which is what is mentioned here as a vulnerability in the financial system, namely that people get older. I got no comment on it, and since the chairman of the Financial Committee has been out with it several times, the chairman of the Financial Committee may be able to elaborate on this – if he actually believes it is a challenge for people to get older, and that there is something to mention in the same breath as the low interest rate and high housing debt. I find it strange that it is addressed in the same breath, and I understand the problem. But does he think it's worth treating the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4206	I really didn't intend to comment on the last part of the debate, because it was, to put it mildly, a syllable attempt to describe a disagreement between the red-green parties on fiscal policy over the next four years. There are probably shared opinions and differences of opinion in tax policy and economic policy, but unlike the opposition parties, the red-green parties have managed this country for eight years and have done so in an excellent way. They have agreed on fiscal policy, on transport policy, on health policy and on school policy. Of course, we're still going to be in the years to come. We have demonstrated that we are able to agree after we have negotiated together. It is in stark contrast to what the opposition parties have so far demonstrated before the elections, for they have announced every two weeks that they will not reign together if the Progress Party believes so, and if the Christian People's Party believes so. A more fragile collection of parties than the opposition has demonstrated, I guess we've barely had a choice. I fully agree with what Mr Micasen has just said, that they must first agree on the world in which they are involved in economic policy. The right has proposed tax relief of the order of 23 billion. kr and the Progress Party in the order of 100 billion. kr. Not enough -- they're going to add to the budgets the same amount at the other end. There's a lot that's not related here. I don't think the Norwegian people are going to let them try to figure out, because the math doesn't work out anyway. But we're going to be able to find a solution, and it's been briefed by the Minister of Finance. The investigations relating to financial taxes are under way. It was not only investigated in Norway, it was investigated throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4217	The representative, Arve Kambe, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4220	I understand that SV is disappointed that both the government, the finance minister and the opposition at Stortinget have rejected the financial tax before it came up for government treatment. We think that's good. Back to SV's argument that you want a financial tax: Audun Lysbakken said to Dagbladet yesterday: ‘People can count on who will be able to follow up their election vows.’ So today, the Minister of Finance has rejected SV's 9 billion. kr. So SV doesn't have the money to fight elections anymore, and it has to be seen as a huge problem for SV. As Lightbaken says, people can count on who will be able to follow up their election vows. Now we already know that SV's election vows will not be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4232	This is an interesting debate. We'll probably get back to it in a week as well. What is important to stress is that the government actually – I refer to the tax proposition – investigated an activity tax based on a VAT-like system. As the representative of the Swedish government was concerned, that is the government's policy. I would also like to remind the House that in Soria Moria I in 2005, it was agreed to base the level of taxation from 2004. We were able to do that in Soria Moria II in 2009, and I am convinced that we can do it in Soria Moria III in 2013. That's what this case is about. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre of course are going to run election campaigns, and we have a lot of ammunition in that context, so I don't think you have to worry that we shouldn't be able to run a good election campaign in the direction we want to drive Norway in. Then we get back to what's about the civil disagreement, which, in my view, is relatively large. It's an interesting development – even this week – with a new difference of 400 billion. kr or about 10 years. We'll probably have ample opportunity to discuss these things later. I'll stop there, and I expect that we'll resume the thread next Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4247	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4250	I was now very surprised at how to interpret the Minister of Finance. He was very clear in his previous post that the tax level would be fixed even in the next period. Shall we interpret the post that the Minister of Finance now held as opening up to renegotiate it, or is it still firm? Now there are a little different signals, but until we hear something else, I choose to interpret his posts that he held last time as that the tax level should be fixed next round. Then he actually cancelled SV's promise in Dagbladet yesterday, because it is about taking more money from Norwegian businesses and Norwegian households than the government is doing now. The financial tax should be an additional income to the country. It's something other than what Sigbjørn Johnsen said was going to be government policy next year. It's an honest attempt to calm down, but I don't think the Minister of Finance did it in a particularly gallant way. It probably says the most about the problems internally in the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4257	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4271	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each Party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no replication. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4280	In accordance with Section 5 of the Central Bank Act, the representativeness has overseen the operation of the Bank of Norway and has seen to it that the rules governing the operation of the Bank have been followed in 2012. The representative has sent his report to Stortinget in line with the amendments to the Act in 2009 and 2010 regarding tasks and responsibilities. There is a joint committee behind the vote. The Committee, in its comments, underlined the importance of maximising transparency in the operation of the Bank of Norway. There is a strong public interest in the operation of the Bank. In particular, the interest surrounding the management of the State pension fund abroad, SPU, is high. That's good. NBIM manages our common wealth and has a great responsibility both for the optimal return of the fund and for the organisation to integrate clear social and environmental responsibility into its capital management. Both the Board of Directors and the Board of Representatives of Norway have further developed in 2012 a governance framework for property investment in SPUs, which includes leadership on the creation and supervision of subsidiaries. Over the last year, the representativeness has followed up on how the bank has built up the property portfolio in the SPU and has in this context addressed an independent assessment of the governance and control framework for property investments. This is necessary all the time property investment is new for the management of the SPU. The Committee therefore also welcomes the fact that this area has been followed up by its representative during the last year in particular. The Governing Council of the Bank of Norway shall direct the carrying on and advisory activities of the Bank, while its representation shall exercise supervision and control. The representative office has its own secretariat and supervises the operation of the bank and the rules governing the operation of the bank. The Agency shall establish the accounts of the Bank of Norway and adopt a budget. Several changes have been made in recent years in the area of representation, not least through the above-mentioned clarification made in the 2009 Central Bank Act on Supervisory and Supervisory Responsibilities, and by the 2010 representation reporting directly to the Stortinget. The Committee considers that it is important to assess on an ongoing basis how the supervision of the Bank's activities can be further developed, including the role of its representation. It is important that the good development that has been over the last few years continues. The prioritisation of further supervisory work facilitates this, inter alia: through continued high priority in areas such as risk management, internal control, risk mitigation measures and compliance with laws and regulations. The Committee takes the view that the Governing Council has had satisfactory governance and control with the Bank of Norway in 2012. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4311	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each Party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no replication. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4320	The financial statements are the last line item of the budgetary wheel, where we finalise the balance sheet for the previous year. The status of 2012 tells us that Norway went well in the year we now have behind us. The oil-corrected deficit was 19 billion. kr lower than in the aged budget adopted late in the autumn of 2011. There are two main reasons for that. Firstly, expenditure was less than intended. More than half of the minor consumption is caused by lower costs than originally assumed. In addition, revenue has increased. Tax revenue was totaled at 7 billion. kr higher than that assumed. So someone would say that 19 billion. kr is a fairly healthy number, a significant deviation. To that, the government points out, and I agree, that there will always be some uncertainty or uncertainty about figures to be provided in the budget, or other macroeconomic figures, and the changes in 2012 do not differ from those that have been normal deviations. Safe economic governance is, in my opinion, about creating budgets based on the best possible professional estimate in a very uncertain economy and the world. Then we're always going to use the best models we have to calculate estimates that point forward in economic development. It is therefore good that the Ministry of Finance, through both attention and a separate sample, addresses exactly what we are all concerned with: ensuring the best possible professional basis for dealing with the preparation of the annual budgets. I'd like to add that it's now become the rule that when you're bombing, you're fortunately bombing to a great extent by getting more revenue and less expenditure. It's a much better world to be in than where how many other countries have been, where one has bombed the other way, and the revenue has been lower and the cost is higher. Then countries often have much bigger problems. If we move on to our money on the book, we see that the book value of the Staten pension fund abroad at the end of 2012 is 3,825 billion. kr. It's over 500 billion. kr more than at the end of 2011. The wealth we have on the book, which we pick up from the base, is good, but it also requires that we take responsibility, that we manage the values well. We have to make sure that the extra resources we are now converting to a monetary value are not phased into the economy at such a rate that the economy is going overboard. Such a fortune does not come of itself and does not remain great if we do not take responsibility in this hall. With this I recommend the setting of the government accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4353	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4362	If you are in a car with good air conditioning and good music – maybe Bjøro Håland with ‘I Love Norwegian Country’ – and are happy, you may not think of those who are on the other side, who are moving in a residential area, in a kindergarten, and who are plagued by the noise that comes from the car in which you liked so much. There are a lot of them – approx. 500000 – which is caused by noise, and 78 pst. of these become the frame of traffic noise. This means that it is important to take action to ensure that fewer are affected by noise and air pollution. We know that in winter, when there's bad air, there's a lot of people who have asthma and allergies, who can't move out. Occasionally, kindergartens in urban areas are also shut down due to traffic-based air pollution. Then we have to go inside and see if we can do anything. One tried to do something about what became hot environmental limits, but it turned out that they were not good enough to be implemented properly. So we had to have a review of this. I see the old Minister of Transport is present, and this was one of her favorite words. We have now had that review, and we are now tabling a bill to do something for those who are hit by traffic noise and air pollution. That means we can do what we've seen to work. If speed is high, there is often more noise and particulate matter, and we get more air pollution than if we slow down. I myself have been visiting a nursery in Stavanger, which is called Barna's house, where the highway is close up. When it rains, there's an incredibly high noise level for kids who are out playing. This is an area - Saksamarka called it - that would definitely fit such an environmental limit. It's important that we follow this up. So we have to ask ourselves what the Progress Party is thinking, which doesn't want to deal with asthmatics and allergy sufferers and people who are plagued by noise, but it just has to increase speed, increase pollution, increase noise, and so the plagues of those who are affected by it. That's when one wonder if the representative Hoksrud is moving around enough, and it would be interesting today to hear what he – who is a spokesman in this matter as well, and who has now entered into the toll pit and probably has to install it himself – says that he and the Progress Party are looking away from all the groups that are being hit by noise, by opposing the introduction of these environmental traffic limits for which the other parties are in favour. Then I think it was good enough from the case manager's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4377	There's nothing new in that we're discussing this. There has been – as the representative Langeland said – a lot of discussion and a lot of reviews to try to figure this out. One of the reasons why this issue has emerged is that the government chose to redefine the charging system – I believe it was in connection with the 2007 state budget – so that diesel cars were much cheaper than petrol cars. This gave you a conversion, and people bought more diesel cars. This resulted in more local contamination. We have made several proposals on GTL – or gas two liquids – that can be used on diesel cars and thus reduce emissions significantly. We also believe that many other steps can be taken in terms of better maintenance on these roads. Some of the fun things are the discussion about environmental limits, including: on Call 3, because for those who are on Call 3 in rush time, this is not a problem. Then the car rarely goes over 15-20 km/h, because then people are mostly in line. It is also not beneficial to stand and spew out exhaust gases – a lot of sulphur and other things that are not good. So maybe the representative Langeland should be doing something about the infrastructure and providing better and more roads, but I expect that debate to be on Tuesday next week. I would like to refer to our comments, which we have in this case, and which we have had in the past in connection with the same matter. We believe that this is a bad solution. We also know that there are doctors working on this, who work with respiratory diseases and allergies, who say it doesn't have the effect that representatives Langeland and others will claim it has. There are very divided opinions about this, and we are going to vote against the legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4386	Today, the law of law in this city has sent an appeal on environmental limits in return because the basis of the law was not present, and what this matter is about is that this bill is precisely designed to ensure the legal basis for the possible use of environmental shipping limits. There has been an alarming slow progress in the process of clarifying the basis on which we now have the environmental limit. It has been unclear for several years whether the police have the right to enforce the measure, and it has been almost two years since the Right and Christian People's Party proposed that the government should clarify precisely this legal basis for the environmental border in Oslo, so that the action could be continued without delay. The aim of the proposal is to clarify that the environment, including the protection of public health, is a general consideration of the Road Traffic Act and that exceeding speed limits established for environmental reasons should follow the normal reaction system for speed limit infringements. Road wear and re-suspension are a major source of particulate matter. After constant exceedances of the limit value of the pollution regulation for particulate matter, an environmental test project was launched in 2004 at Riksvej 4 in Oslo, resulting in a reduction of the speed limit on the route from 80 km/h to 60 km/h in the peak season to reduce the suspended particulate matter. There have been good results from this experiment, and this has led to the introduction of the environmental limit on Ring 3 in 2006 and the Framnes-Lysaker section on E18 in 2008. There are many – too many – who are plagued by air and noise pollution, and the Norwegian Association against Noise and the Asthma and Allergy Association also point out the ongoing health plagues that are being inflicted on people by road traffic. The environmental limit can be a useful measure to improve air quality. For the right, it is important to point out that there are local governance powers that should have the opportunity to have the widest possible toolbox in order to ensure a good urban environment. It is also important for the Right to stress that local authorities must decide whether to introduce environmental limits within the municipality border. In this respect, we believe that environmental limits must also be an instrument that is available to local politicians, and which can provide the best assessment, but also the best effect, for having a good urban environment, but also for improving air quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4399	There is a short time left for the Storting to deal with the major national transport plan notification for the next decade. It is clear to the government that transport policy should contribute to reducing the environmental impact of transport and also contribute to meeting national health and environmental objectives. The Communication also states that, in order to achieve the national objectives for clean air and less noise, the government will implement measures for the most vulnerable areas and will also continue to work to set nightlife targets. It is also clarified that the environment is one of the elements that can be taken into account when setting speed limits. The proposal under consideration today clarifies the legal framework and the response legislation for environmental limits, and it clarifies precisely that the environment, including noise, can be one consideration in the speed limitation of road and rail authorities. Furthermore, it is also clarified that exceedances of a speed limit fixed in full or in part for environmental reasons shall follow the usual reaction code for speed limits. It should be recognised that there has been a long process around this amendment, but the change currently under consideration will form the legal framework for environmental limits, for example. to reduce particulate matter or noise, either for the restoration of the three environmental limits in Oslo or for the establishment of new environmental limits elsewhere in the country. The legislative proposal under consideration today has been subject to general consultation, and the final proposal has received broad support from the hearing bodies, among others. by the National Attorney, the police and road, health and environmental authorities. I have noted the comments made by the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that it is a great advantage for local authorities to have the widest possible toolbox in order to improve the urban environment, and that it must be up to local authorities to decide whether environmental maritime borders should be introduced within the municipal border. I share these considerations, but I also have the clarification that both municipalities and regional road offices must be allowed to have a word in the design to introduce environmental limits on municipal roads and national and county roads, respectively – in line with today's division of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 28. We are now dealing with cases No. a total of 29 to 40. All cases relate to the second processing of legal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4541	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4547	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4555	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 2-7, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan of operations for the implementation of a new emergency centre in the Oslo area as soon as possible.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4581	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5 and 7 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to plan emergency centres in each part of the country in parallel with the Oslo Emergency Centre investigation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to refrain from restricting today’s weapons legislation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start a managed liquidation of the Police Directorate, with a view to transferring the directorate’s tasks to new and larger police regions.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is requesting that emergency messages be sent via SMS as soon as possible and that this should be in place by the end of 2013.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a job guarantee for police students, in accordance with the requirements of Document 8:97 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4618	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is immediately asked to ensure that proper coordination of weapons and criminal records is put in place.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4651	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a final investment and financing plan for civil defence in the State budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the current organisation of HRS remain unchanged until thorough professional evaluations, if necessary, taken in close cooperation with the HRS professional communities involved, which call for reorganisation, and that the police continue to play a leading role against HRS in the future.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4882	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit its own case on ICT projects and the so-called ‘Merval Programme’ in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2014.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the 2005 Criminal Code is implemented in order to restore confidence in the enforcement capacity of the justice sector.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4918	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. There is proposal No 1 from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement the 2005 Penal Code immediately.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced their support for the proposal. The Committee had set up: Document 8:98 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4945	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to submit legislative proposals as soon as possible to replace the Housing Entry Act guarantee scheme with an insurance scheme providing for greater consumer protection, while reducing the negative impact of equity and loan difficulties on the construction industry.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e4974	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so that the Grand Duchy, by a two-thirds majority, pre-approves candidates when they are appointed judges of the Supreme Court before they are appointed by the Government in the Council of State.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals so that the Supreme Court itself may choose the Supreme Justice.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e5007	Alternatives are proposed between the Committee's position and the proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for out-of-court models to enable the Supreme Court to choose its own Supreme Court judge in the long term.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e5029	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1 by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left These proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposal of the Progress Party will come back to the President after we have voted on the motion for a resolution. There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘After three years, the government is asked to evaluate changes to the Criminal Code 1902, the Criminal Code 2005 and the Criminal Procedures Act on thecriminalisation of terrorist training, participation in terrorist organisations and preparatory actions in order to balance the benefits against the disadvantages so that we do not at any time use more far-reaching investigation methods than is required.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e5733	It is votered over I § 147 a new fifth paragraph and New § 147 d, II § 200 a first paragraph first sentence, § 202 c, § 216 a first paragraph (b), § 222 d second paragraph (a), III, IV § 131 new third paragraph and New § 136 a. The left has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e5748	It shall then be counted against the other paragraphs of I, II, II and IV and above V, VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e5758	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e5768	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. There is then a proposal from the Progress Party which has been made in connection with this matter. This proposal concerns matters which are outside the scope of the Government's proposal, and as a result there has been no basis for considering them in the Committee's opinion. However, when the proposal is made in relation to the matter and the possibility of ordinary treatment is very limited at this time of the year, the President, since the matter we are dealing with, including the criminal law, will propose that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 38 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. Point (d) of that provision shall mean that a decision may be taken without delay if the President or one fifth of the representatives present do not oppose it. On this basis, the President proposes that the proposal by the Progressive Party be put to the vote. No objections have been raised against it – and it is deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: «Agreement to the Law amending the Law of 22 May 1902 No 10 General Civil Punishment I I Law 22 May 1902 No. Section 67 is replaced by the following: [[renewal of limitation periods]] § 67 The limitation period for limitation is 10 years when the highest statutory penalty is imprisonment up to 6 years and 30 years when the highest statutory penalty is imprisonment for more than 6 years. Criminal offences where the highest statutory penalty is 21 or more years old are not outdated. The same applies to criminal offences under Sections 193, 194, 195, 196, 197 and 198. For the purposes of calculating the time limit, booklets are considered to be similar to prisons. The imposition of fines or loss of rights in addition to other penalties is not relevant in the calculation of the time limit. If a person has committed several offences in the same act, which were to expire at different times after the first subparagraph, the maximum limitation period applies to all infringements. The time limit for the limitation of criminal liability of undertakings shall be calculated on the basis of the penalties applicable to individuals in the criminal offence. II The amendments to Section 67 of the Criminal Code also apply to criminal offences committed before the adoption of the law here. III The law shall enter into force immediately.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they support the proposal. The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e5835	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Judicial Committee. Proposal No. 1 sounds: 'In Law No. 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the proceedings in criminal matters, the fourth paragraph of Section 28 shall be replaced by the following: Printing shall be refused where, for reasons of national security or relations with a foreign country, it would be questionable to print or where there is reason to fear that the printing will be misused. The same applies to persons other than the parties when the court has imposed a secrecy order. Printing may be refused under the conditions laid down in the first paragraph of Section 242a. The rules in the second to sixth paragraphs of Section 242a apply mutatis mutandis as far as they apply. No printing of documents containing information may be given which could lead to the identity of witnesses who have declared themselves anonymous, cf. § 130a or § 234a, become known, or contain information previously excluded from disclosure under the rules of the fourth paragraph of Section 28, § 242a, § 264, sixth paragraph, or § 267, first paragraph, third sentence, cf. Paragraph 264, sixth paragraph. In addition, no printout of documents containing information previously requested by the prosecution authority from the transparency of those provisions may be made if the prosecution authority has suspended the prosecution under the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 72 because it did not comply with the request. II The amendments shall enter into force from the time the King decides.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Section 160a of the Criminal Procedures Act shall be repealed from the time the King decides.’; The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6347	The Committee shall be called upon to give its opinion on the position of I, § 216 of the third sentence of the first subparagraph. The left has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6362	There are too few votes for us to have a valid decision in Stortinget. The President therefore proposes that we resume voting. After the signals that have been given, it indicates that everyone outside the Left will vote in favour, but we need a valid roll-out decision, so the vote will be resumed. The Committee shall be called upon to give its opinion on the position of I, § 216 of the third sentence of the first subparagraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6378	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the other paragraphs of I, with the exception of the fourth paragraph of Section 28, and II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6388	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6398	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6490	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6500	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6542	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6552	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6626	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6636	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6660	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a case in which a new national institution for human rights, meeting the requirements of the 1993 Paris Declaration, is subject to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a case that a new national human rights institution reports annually to the Stortinget on the human rights situation in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a case stating that it is the Stortinget who appoints the head of annual affairs of a new national institution for human rights.’ The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6715	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to I. It is promoted by the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. The left has announced that they will vote for you. It is assumed that the Workers' Party, SV and the representatives of the Centre Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e6732	It shall be counted against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e7005	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e7015	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e7023	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Law on job protection, etc. for workers on ships [[shipwork law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e8872	The Committee's recommendation to Chapter 12 § 12-3 is first put to the vote. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e8887	The Committee shall then be consulted on the attitude of the Committee to the other paragraphs of Chapter 12 and Chapters 1 to 11 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e8897	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e8907	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e8948	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the Norwegian industry’s framework conditions, including the depreciation rules, and to propose measures to ensure that Norwegian companies maintain their competitiveness.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e8979	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Torgeir Dahl on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-5, by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 6-12, by Borghild Tenden, on behalf of Left-wing proposal No. 13, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 has been included in the configuration, while the proposals No. 6 to 13 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6, 7, 10, and 12, from the left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce an additional criterion in the Tax Fund scheme allowing additional 2 million to be spent. SEK in addition to that specified in points (a) and (k) of the second paragraph of § 16-40. SEK in addition to that specified in Section 16-40, second paragraph, point (b) for R & D related to climate, environment and energy efficiency.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of Enova’s bioenergy and biogas support schemes.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased appropriations for new technologies to promote 2nd generation biofuels’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to increase the biofuel marketing obligation to 10 pst. by 2020.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9029	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government in the case of proposals for an increase in the total weight of up to 60 tonnes on modular vehicle trains, also open to increase the bogie pressure on vehicle trains to 20 tonnes’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9046	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Eight, nine and eleven from the left. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased investment aid for the construction of biogas plants, both industrial plants and farms.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to simplify the possibility of building bio-heating plants as an ancillary activity on agricultural properties financed with own timber capital.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the reintroduction of the tax exemption for biodiesel.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9066	I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9071	Then it is announced that the Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9083	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the concept of ‘non-interventional natural areas’ is no longer given weight in dealing with land-related matters in state administrative bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9100	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to abolish the residence requirement for forest property.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to open up the share company model as a form of operation in forestry.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9124	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a concrete long-term objective that modular train of up to 25 m in length and a total weight of up to 60 tonnes can be used on those sections of the main road network where it is dimensioned for such transport’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote its own forest report.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9164	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 4 and 5, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new and more thorough review of the possibility of developing ethical guidelines for sovereign debt, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9193	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment and assessment of the management strategy of the oil fund and to extend the investment universe to other investment objects.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9208	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment fund aimed at investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. Through its activities, the Fund must underpin Norway’s position as an energy nation.’ The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9225	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the next evaluation of the State pension fund abroad, to carry out an investigation into alternative ways of organising the fund, including the question of setting up its own monetary policy committee in the Bank of Norway, so that the Governing Council can concentrate more on the competence of capital management or a model where the management of the SPU is separated from the Bank of Norway, and whether there should be one or more funds in the course of the process.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9263	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make a thorough assessment of the resources that the Ethics Work of the State pension fund abroad will require in the coming years, given very high ambitions for the follow-up to the ethical guidelines, and to inform the size accordingly appropriately.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for increased resources for the ethics work of the State pension fund abroad.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9299	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the establishment of an independent State body of complaint for financial services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9398	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9411	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9428	Case No. 29–40 are the second time legal proceedings. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-13.ana.ud1271e9440	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
