ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e57	The representative of Morten Höglund, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e66	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament this week — and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e84	On 18 June 2009, the previous Grandfather’s presidency appointed a selection to propose a limited revision of the Constitution with the aim of strengthening the position of human rights. Former Wage Representative Inge Wage became the leader of the sample. Let me stress that although it is mentioned in the mandate of the sample that this is due to the 200th anniversary of the Constitution in 2014, it is very clear in the mandate that it is to strengthen the position of human rights in the Constitution that is the decisive basis for the appointment of the sample. It is important to stress because part of the professional legal environment has pointed out that celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Constitution itself is not a good reason to change the Constitution. I agree. It's not a celebration, but it's a confession that a lot is missing in the Constitution. But this isn't a part of the celebration. The new build-up is free for the next three years to adopt what is available from different variants. It was a broad composite sample. All batches have proposed representatives in the sample and the sample submitted its report in January 2012. Then the report was published, of course. In Document No: The proposals were presented for 2011–2012 and the report was forwarded by the Presidency to the Monitoring and Constitutional Committee for Treatment. This time, not to give up, of course, because you cannot vote on Constitutional proposals, it must be a constitutional proposal, signed by representatives, but in order to deal with the report as broad as possible by inviting you to a broad consultation. It has been the main purpose of the work of the Committee. A broad consultation has been carried out, as explained in the vote. Let me say it so that Constitutional proposals have never had a broad popular appeal. If you look back in time at the times when the Constitution has been revised, and this applies to approx. Two-thirds of today's constitutions, there has rarely been any requirement for people to do so, but it is actually one of the main tasks of Parliament, the Stortinget, to carry out regular audits. Sometimes constitutional provisions have aroused political debate, not least in our vote on membership of the EEC and the EU, the European Union, but it has been more the case and not the Constitution that has given rise to debate. That was the background for us to invite you to the widest possible consultation. And let me say it like this, the whole legal environment, in both Oslo and Bergen and the rest of the country, engaged quite strongly in written inquiries, and seminars were organized in which the members of the committee attended. It was a debate over several months. Against this background, constitutional proposals were put forward by members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, and I stress members, with different options. In this way, it has been sought to facilitate the possibility of the next enlargement being as free as possible to deal with the existing proposals. Then I want to add that it means enough that there is a proposal here that is not necessarily personal and behind it, but that is intended to give the next big one, which has decision-making power in relation to these proposals, an opportunity to look at different alternatives – and there are different alternatives. I don't think it's one of the professionally qualified recordings we've received, which are not taken into account in this context by adding their alternatives to the proposals promoted by the Wage Committee. I remember that the Wage Committee worked for almost two years based on significant political and professional legal insight. Rarely have we seen the preparation of constitutional proposals that have been more extensive and thorough professional and political than this process. I think we should send a thank you to the previous presidency, to the former prime minister, Mr Jagland, for the initiative for this thorough treatment. For we must be honest, and we must do so from this platform, it is not always that constitutional proposals are the proposals that are being prepared as far and as far as possible, even if they are important enough. This process has been different. It has distinguished itself by seeking the widest possible proposal. In fact, there is a setting from the Wage Selection with an unusually few dissertations. In my opinion, the Constitution is a valuable document, which is designed to reflect both fundamental values in a society and the rights of a society. If you read today's constitution, it is, as I said earlier, approx. two thirds of the provisions changed, so that the Constitution has been subject to a gradual change over many years. A large period of time without changes to the Constitution is one of the exceptions, i.e. without consideration of draft constitutions being adopted. Today's society is different than it was in 1814, and it's different than it was in 1948. Why do I choose 1948? Yes, it was the year of the adoption of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. There have also been quite significant changes since then. I would like to quote from the Committee's position, page 7 - and there is no disagreement about this: ‘The main societal changes are the economic and technological development, the emergence of the welfare society, the educational explosion, the agreement that there should be equal opportunities for women and men, an increased understanding of children’s rights, and an increase in the number of Nordics with different ethnic, linguistic, religious and cultural backgrounds. This multicultural and modern welfare country should therefore be reflected in the Fundamental Law’s rights provisions, without overshadowing the fundamental civil and political rights of the Constitution since 1814.’» I think that in many ways also answers the question: Is pure welfare rights right to be placed in the Constitution? To that I would say that this is nothing new. Today's constitution also contains such fundamental provisions on the right to work, the right to work, the right to a healthy and good environment, etc. I remember that the rights must also be designed in principle. So there's nothing in rights about, for example, the right to education, the right to health, the right to a satisfactory standard of living and social protection which state something about the political decisions on which rights, their scope, the rates to be applied, etc. But it gives a framework, and it gives an interpretation. In this there is also a danger that some have seen, in the so-called judicial process. Do we need basic laws – or, more generally, should we have a society that ensures that individual rights govern policy, or should policy govern rights? That's an interesting and fundamental question. I don't think the Constitution is what really creates the distinction in terms of the legal process in a society. I see the danger that excessive legalisation can make policy less important. There are moves, for example: in the American society that I think is reminiscent of this – unlike our own society. But legalisation in this regard, I think, is a derailment of the debate. That's why I finally want to quote from a chronicle that formerly British President Thorbjørn Jagland wrote in the Evening Post on March 7th this year, and I agree with these views on legalization. He's actually quoting a statement from Mr. Hallgeir H. Langeland, and it's a great honour, I'd say, to be quoted with a view to weakening the rule of the people. Jagland wrote the following: ‘It is well known that government and state apparatus regard this as a danger. But it surprises me that the Stortinget does not perceive its role differently. Democracy must have counter-powers to control and balance a often bureaucratic state apparatus. The role of size is to establish such counter-power. We have seen it so often: the courts are not a threat to citizens' rights, but it can be a faceless bureaucracy.' I basically share these views and believe that these thoughts should also follow the case further. I do not want to go into individual provisions that have been controversial, because the final decisions will be taken later, but I have put forward a few fundamental views on what a constitution should be like. And I think that the proposals that are available also represent the diversity of views that are in the matter and that give the next big deal – in its first three years – a good opportunity to carry out a proper and timely revision of the Constitution so that general human rights are reflected in the Universal Declaration – economic and social rights – and the European Convention on Human Rights are also reflected in the Norwegian Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e124	I start by saying something that is, of course, that the Constitution is owned by the Stortinget, and that it is the elected representatives who are proposers of constitutional changes. It is therefore not the parties as such who support the proposals that we are debating here today. But it is just as full as the rapporteur, Foss, has just said, that the place of human rights in the Constitution has been given a very special treatment that goes far beyond what is common before constitutional proposals are promoted by individual representatives. As the representative Foss also said, it was then Prime Minister Jagland who took the initiative in 2009 to strengthen the human rights of the Constitution and which led the Presidency of the United Kingdom on 18 June 2009 to set up a selection to investigate and promote proposals for a limited revision of the Constitution with the aim of strengthening the position of human rights in national law by giving the status of fundamental human rights. The committee's work was intended to form part of Storting's preparations for the foundation's 200th anniversary in 2014. The committee that was led by Inge Wohnning, which I see is also present here today, gave its report to the Presidentship of the Stortinge on December 19, 2011. The Presidency then forwarded the report to the Control and Constitutional Committee for further consideration. We in the Labour Party have carried out a thorough examination, and the Workers' Party's representatives in the Control and Constitution Committee are behind the overall assessment of the Human Rights Committee – with the exception that we will come back to in the debate on the part of the Workers' Party. I would like first of all to give some consideration to how the Workers' Party – although I would like to emphasise again that there are individual representatives who are proposers – and how we, as representatives of the Control and Constitutional Committee, have assessed the report of the Human Rights Committee. But first of all, I would like to commend the presidency for taking the initiative of this debate on the constitutional proposals that have been promoted in this period and which are to be dealt with by the next majority. It is in the spirit of the Constitution and, hopefully, will give the voters insight and opportunity to consider the constitutional proposals that have been put forward before they go to the elections in September. Before I go into the assessment of human rights in the Constitution, I think it is in its place to briefly repeat some of the premises on which the Human Rights Committee has based its work. Firstly, the Constitution does not give a complete picture of the human rights protection that actually exists in Norwegian law, as there are only some of the central human rights that have been expressed in the Constitution. Today’s fragmentation could lead to legal uncertainty as to whether the values expressed are more important or more overarching than human rights in other legislation. Major public investigations into discrimination and privacy have concluded that the protection of fundamental rights must be strengthened. Secondly, the protection of fundamental rights should at least cover the key human rights underlying the international human rights conventions to which Norway has acceded. Thirdly, the fundamental legislating of the central human rights will not lead to what is often referred to as the legalisation of society. Fourth, the selection has taken into account how human rights are expressed in modern institutions in Western Europe, especially in our neighbouring countries. Attention has been paid to Norwegian traditions and Norwegian values in the sense of making the values of the Norwegian society more visible and in view of the fact that the Constitution should be better suited to meeting Norway’s future challenges. Finally, the human rights of the Constitution are brought together in a new section E dealing only with human rights. In the proceedings of the Workers' Party, we have, of course, been aware that these prerequisites have also been and are subject to debate and different perceptions both within and outside the legal environment, and that there have been differing views on both the outcome of the work of the Human Rights Committee and the process both before and after the reduction of the sample. Our starting point is that it is important to have a relatively conservative starting point in terms of changes to the Constitution. The basic law should remain general and not detailed – this in order for it to remain as it has been, since it was written almost 200 years ago. On the other hand, we must not become so constitutional conservative that we do not provide for a constitution that can capture and reflect the new reality of society, and that does not look ahead sufficiently. Changes now proposed may seem natural and unnecessary today, but they may not be in 50 years' time. The aim of constitutional changes must be to guarantee our grandchildren and grandchildren the same fundamental rights that we enjoy in Norwegian society today. This is the overall perspective of the changes that the Workers' Party has made. We have therefore taken from the present amendments of the Human Rights Committee which they presented in their report. Many of them are, in our view, unproblematic and can be seen as a foundation for the model of society we have today, and the Workers' Party believes to have much of the honor and pride of. In our view, it's important in such a perspective to actually base this model. I think the proposal that exists balances well the various considerations that need to be taken into account. Quote from selection: ‘One basic idea must be that the Constitution should preserve key values in today’s Norwegian society, while reflecting the values that have survived over time. Benchmarking these values will be a contribution to ensuring that future generations will also benefit from these rights.’ I also agree with the Human Rights Committee that there is a need to update the Constitution in relation to the society we live today. This does not mean that the Constitution should provide us with the answers to difficult and important societal challenges, but that it should crush some key principles and fundamental values that currently form the basis for the decisions taken. In this way, to a greater extent, it will be possible to ensure that the individual's freedom, equality and human dignity are safeguarded in decision-making processes in our future as well. For the Workers' Party, some of the proposals are problematic and may run counter to important principles that our party has fought, such as: abortion laws. We have therefore made our own alternative formulations in which our views are respected and put in place as our own constitutional proposals. This will come back to the other representatives of the Workers' Party in the Control and Constitutional Committee and will explain later in the debate. It is the next big deal to deal with the proposals we are debating here today, as the representative Foss has also stressed. It has been very important for us in the Workers' Party to create a large room for action for those who are going to do the important work that is to change the Constitution for the next growing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e174	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good work on the setting and perhaps an even greater thank you for coordinating and working on the basic legislative proposals that are a consequence of the position of the Human Rights Committee. There has been a very large coordination and coordination job that the rapporteur has managed in a good manner, even though there are individual representatives in the committee who support the various proposals. I also share the view of the case rapporteur and, to the extent that the last speakers also stated, with one exception concerning the last speaker: he was injured to say that the Constitution is owned by Stortinget. In the eyes of the Progress Party, it is owned by the people, and then we get to represent the people when we're going to adopt the Constitution. The point of the Basic Law is that this is our foundation as a nation and that foundation is, in our opinion, owned by the people. The work of the Human Rights Committee has been very extensive, and it forms the basis for most of the proposals promoted on fundamental changes in the field of human rights during this period. The examination of individual proposals, both of which have been discussed in the previous two, will be considered during the next major period. I'm not going to go into the individual proposals, but I'm going to give you some general considerations. There is a cross-political agreement that human rights should reflect us as societies, and in a separate human rights law, as legislators, we have given human rights precedence over national other laws in the event of conflict. Even today, human rights are guaranteed a kind of separate level of law between ordinary law and basic law. The legal basis for human rights in Norway is therefore already very strong. The Human Rights Committee would then look into whether some human rights should nevertheless find their natural place in the Constitution. The work done by the sample is probably beyond what was the starting point for the reduction of the sample. But at the same time, it has provided and contributed to a basis for debate on the location of human rights that we have hardly ever seen before, and that is good. So the starting point for the debate is a country that is already at the forefront of legalising its obligations to human rights. In the next period, we're going to consider going from being among the very best in the class to getting even better. Ambitions are important, but we have to put that perspective in a slightly larger context. In my opinion, the question is not really how to secure human rights even better legal status, but the question is, what kind of constitution do we want? Even I want a constitution that gives rights, guarantees citizens freedoms, and is relevant in people's lives. There are many political programme declarations in the Constitution already, but I fear that we are at risk of blowing even more air into the Constitution, with the result that it will no longer have any real significance for the citizens. If a constitution establishes social rights to an even greater extent, which is the selection's proposal, a kind of national party programme rather than clarifying the rights and obligations of citizens. No one is currently able to bring a batch programme to the courts to ensure that a right has been satisfied. I believe that you should be able to use the Basic Law to ensure concrete rights. I say 'I', because the Progress Party as such has not dealt with the various human rights proposals yet. There is something the next big group should decide on. The Constitution is a legal document, not just an overall political manifesto of the nation. In my opinion, it is important that the Constitution should bring together strength on its way to the 200th anniversary, not risk a deterioration by being filled with several airy programme declarations, some of which will be dealt with in the next period. If one adopts the entire position of the Human Rights Committee, I mean one risks just that, weakening the Constitution both as a political and legal foundation. That's why I'm very happy that there's been a series of different amendments to the Constitution for treatment in the next period, because then we'll have time to debate what kind of constitution we want and then decide how the human rights will get their natural place in it. There, the position of the Human Rights Committee has a very important role to play. The proposals that are being promoted have broad support in very many areas, while there is considerable disagreement in some other areas. In my view, there is a clear distinction between guaranteeing citizens the right to freedom, expression and absence of interference on the one hand, and the duty of the State to give them benefits at the Community's expense on the other. In such an image, we need to assess whether political statements strengthen our Constitution and make it more relevant in people's lives, or whether we thus vent the remaining role of the Constitution in people's lives. I think it is important that the continuation of this debate is not presented as if someone is for human rights, while others are opposed. We are all in this room, I suppose, for human rights – a unanimous increase made it clear in 1999 by the Human Rights Act. It's still going to be like that. However, we have to endure a real debate about what the Constitution will look like in the future, without falling for the temptation to characterize each other as more or less for human rights. Then, of course, the batches have not taken a stand on these proposals, and how the device will be in the next large-scale period. There is a job that the next Storting must take, and I am sure that the job will be done thoroughly. I would also like to stress the importance that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which is then going to deal with these constitutional amendments, sees this in context and perhaps in a slightly wider perspective in advance. There is a very important contribution, without comparison, to increasing the attention of the Constitution and the Constitution as an important foundation for the society in which we live, and to contributing to the governance of. It is important that we try to contribute to more discussion of the Constitution in all possible ways. The human rights committee's proposal is a good contribution to the discussion that should be free, and I am absolutely convinced that the next big deal will take many good decisions on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e200	I would also like to give tribute to the case-speaker Per-Kristian Foss for the thorough work and coordination responsibility he has had in this matter. I'm very happy with that. So, today, I will, and it will not be a habit, boast of the presidency's initiative against debate on the Constitution, both the seminars and the new one we have been holding on Thursday, simply tabling proposals to try to have a debate on the Constitution. I think I'm very clever, because as both Foss and others are involved, it's not necessarily that people discuss the Constitution so much. The case spokesperson was concerned with this with the legal process – and Jagland, who was a bit critical of what I said in that regard. But then this is part of a debate, and then that theme has to come up as a problem that can have different outputs. That's my starting point. I live and live in Norway and hope to follow closely the debate here. It is not as easy to follow up on it if you are in Europe and think about how to get into the EU. We have some suggestions that will be problematic for many to attend, just to create a debate on the Constitution and on rights linking up with the Constitution – not least at the national meeting we had this weekend, which was a success. I would like to mention a lot of what we focused on there, in my article here today. Then it may be that other representatives from SV later in the debate come back with problem settings that have also been addressed. The one is housing – the right to housing. We see how the housing market has almost developed freely over a long time, and we know that very many do not get into the housing market. They're kind of condemned to pay the expenses of someone who rents a housing unit, because they can't afford to enter the market. It may be for teachers, nurses, archaeologists – you name it – who do not get the money that is needed to buy a dwelling. If they don't get a man or a wife who thinks good money, they're doomed to live in the rental market. That means we're sorry, and that's why we want to push for even more activity to build more dwellings. We'll set a default if it's in the Constitution and we're grounded. In my own area, which is the North-Jearth, there's a lot of activity in oil and gas business, so you have to be a crawler to get yourself a dwelling. It's impossible for ordinary people to buy housing there, because it costs too much. The government has now begun to take some action, and I am very pleased about that. We had the deregulation in the housing cooperative in the 1980s, with Willoch in the head, which meant that the people like me, who bought a dwelling then, like singles, got pretty good access to the housing market in a barricade apartment. But when it was lifted, the prices rose so that it was impossible for people to get into the market through the housing cooperative. It was a regrettable political change that occurred in the 1980s, which has made me searchable, but which has made it even harder for young people to enter the market. So the government has now submitted a housing message that focuses on housing and transport solutions. It's huge, I think. When building something out, you need to facilitate public transport and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Then one should also review the procedure in order to make it more effective. One should also consider whether the loans in the House Bank can be converted into loans where you are renting, in order to hold on a long-term basis, with longer contracts. The government also lends to start-up loans for people who have a lot of problems getting into the housing market. So one takes a few steps when it comes to the free market that we've had now, so now one has to try to regulate it so that more people can live. Then we think it makes real political sense that we say something very clear about this in the Constitution. Then to another issue – the protection of discrimination. Formally, we have equality here in Norway. We have a lot of legal regulations in place that make it a good equality, but society is not equal. It also discriminates against disabled people and often people with other sexual orientations, religious affiliations, ethnic origins, skin color and stuff like that. It's gotten smaller, but it's still there. If you only think about women and working life, it is quite clear that women feel less than men in working life. They have 65 pst. of men's wages and salaries. Therefore, we would also like it to be very clear that Norway should be a country where you are not discriminated against – and that defaults to us in the Constitution. Finally, a proposal on asylum. It was a very hot theme at SV's national meeting, and it's been a hot topic out there for most people for a long time. I think a lot of people get upset by the policy we have in Norway when it comes to children. 600 children are born in Norway, have bid here for over three years, but have been told that they will be sent to a country they have never been in. It makes a lot of people upset -- because it actually does in Norway today. It is the big parties on the Grand Council that are in charge of that policy, while the smaller parties, such as the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV, want to have a more liberal asylum and refugee policy, not least when it comes to children. We think that the policy we have is not exactly what it says, among other things. in the Declaration of Human Rights, which we can also show when it concerns housing and the protection of discrimination. That is why we want to base this on the law. The correction that I'm starting with is a problem, of course, but at the same time it's important that, in the constitutional changes that we're going to make in the next period, we set a standard for what Norway stands for, how we want to control Norway through the Constitution, and are clear about the points that will show the society we want. I'm looking forward to the Constitution becoming an even hotter topic among most people, and I think that the debate we have today can contribute to it, based on the Wage Selection Report and the long and good process we've had on the topic of the review of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e228	The proposal is to strengthen the position of human rights in the Constitution. As others have pointed out, I would like to stress the need for the debate and commend those who have helped to secure it, a debate that gives greater attention to how to safeguard human rights and how to follow up human rights. Here, there's legitimate doubt in many environments about what's wisest. My soul is among these doubts. What Langeland’s representative had to say about housing is an example of how wise it is to include such questions in the Constitution. The presidency of the Grand Duchy appointed a committee chaired by Inge Wohnung, and the mandate was to propose limited revision – and I would like to underline it first: limited revision – with the aim of strengthening the position of human rights in national law. It is therefore a significant space for action, a limited revision and strengthening the position of human rights. We are faced with a demanding political judgement as to how we are to implement this. Thorbjørn Jagland was the President of Stortinget in the previous period and one of the initiators of the reduction of the selection of which Inge Wohnning was the leader. The current Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, said in the evening post on 7 March this year that we have 'ended with a foundation law that is stiff and immature'. I strongly disagree with such a reference to the Constitution. The Constitution has been and is invaluable for Norway. It has given a firm anchoring in times of crisis, and it has been guiding under changing social conditions. Its overall authority and its great wear and tear are both due to the fact that it has had its basis in basic values with which the people have identified themselves and that it has been renewed through the change and addition of paragraphs as well as through custom. It is precisely a characteristic of our constitution that it combines stability and renewal. It is also characteristic that the renewal has taken place in the development of democracy and as a result of reasons which the development of our society has made reasonable. According to Thorbjørn Jagland’s opinion, ‘the struggle for ‘Norwegian’ should be linked to the heaviest trends of time in the international community – which are undoubtedly human rights’. Human rights and the question of which of them should be included in the Constitution and how best to realise them in Europe are important. However, in terms of current trends, the dominant trend in Europe now seems to be that non-elected – directors, secretaries-general, commissioners and other international leaders – tell elected representatives what is important. The most overriding value of the Constitution lies in ensuring democracy. Of this value, a number of other values and rights can be derived. I believe that we must have a much more thorough debate before taking a stand on what human rights should possibly be included in the Constitution. For me, it's important that it's not just ideal goals, but rights that we believe need to be realised, and that we can realize, that's central. So that's why what we have to and can realize is important to me in the constitutional changes, not just idealistic desires. The Constitution must ensure that power is achieved and exercised through democratic, political processes. I have more faith in democracy than in the jessen, in the sense that democracy must be supreme in order to ensure justice and fairness in our society. The more right-wing logic that prevails in the governance of society, the more it can lead to a legalisation and a transfer of power from elected assemblies to the courts. Lawyers have played an important role in the development of our democratic rule, both as a profession and as actors in political life. The efforts of many university lawyers have been particularly important, and in the further development of our society, lawyers will have an important role, but they must not have greater power and influence. In particular, we should be reluctant to surrender more power to the lawyers of the international and supranational bodies. The power should lie in the elected assemblies where the representatives are not only elected but also accountable to the people who have elected them. Political change and democracy are crucial. Much can be done better in our country. The best way to do that is to secure democracy through an informative and sharp change of words. The example of that is that in connection with the accession to the European Union, because democracy is the only form of government in which those who are governed have power over those who rule. I chose here to make a basic post without going into the content of the individual proposals. It is the role of the elected representatives that is central, and not individual, that one will come back to when one has discussed the role of the elected representatives, what is to be included in the Constitution, and how we ensure that the political change of words is vital, because it is the understanding and the change of words that is the strength of an active democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e251	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for a good account and for a good job of keeping this important work together. I believe that we have been thoroughly involved, both in the parties and in the committee, in the report of the Wage Committee and in the question of human rights relating to the Constitution, in such a way that we have now been able to invite the next big deal to decide on the place of human rights in the Constitution. The Christian People's Party is involved in promoting several of the proposals. It has not been said that the next big business and the next big business of the Christian People's Party will support all the proposals we have been making. It's the next big thing to do. Although the Christian People's Party does not participate in and promote any of the other proposals, it does not mean that the next big business and the next big business group will be opposed. The point is that through the proposals that have been made, we invite the next big deal to decide on, among other things. draft basic legislation on the right to housing and draft constitutions on the right to asylum. I think the big debate is going to be about what it is that should be grounded, and what it really belongs most to in the political change of word. There is something that I think the next big thing will have to decide. One of the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made – and to this extent a proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted on several occasions – is the fundamental question of the right to life. I just want to link a few words to that very proposal, which for the Christian People's Party is a core issue. On several occasions, we have put forward proposals for a separate constitutional provision which establishes the inviolability of human dignity and the right to life and physical integrity of all people. The right to life and human dignity are a fundamental principle of our cultural heritage, and as a natural consequence, it should also have been enshrined in our constitution – not least this should have been natural at a time when we experience that human dignity and human life are more vulnerable than ever. For approx. A thousand years ago, Christian law was introduced in Norway. It paved the way for a new view of humanity, and with that it happened is marked the upgrading of human dignity. Over time, this view of man was further developed – we might say quality assured and updated – in response to new challenges. A process is still in progress. This understanding of what a human life is, suggests that everyone has the same inviolable value, regardless of integrity, gender, faith, age, civil status and ethnic origin. These values are also key elements of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to which the rapporteur also refers, and other international conventions. So far – in 2013 – there has not been a mood here in Stortinget to fall into the Norwegian Constitution, but the next big deal is invited to do by the fact that there are now proposals, not only the proposals of the Christian People's Party, but also other proposals, which address some of the same theme. The Christian People's Party and the undersigned do not doubt that the right to life and physical integrity has great upswing in the Norwegian people and also here in this Chamber. If we asked, we would probably confirm that everyone considers the right to security of life and body as fundamental. No one will protest against such a thought, where rather the danger is that we take these values as a matter of course, but in this area we know that nothing is of course. If we look around, we have to admit that human life is more threatened than ever. The use of violence is increasing both in our society and in other societies. Ethnic conflicts, human trafficking and slavery are no part of history, they are part of reality today. We are all concerned that ideologies that weaken respect for life and human dignity should get stuck, especially among younger people, and in such a situation there should be no reason to place less emphasis on respect for life and human dignity than before – rather on the contrary. However, the Christian People's Party believes that more than ever we need a tabular paragraph in our most fundamental law that promises the right to life highly, not because such a paragraph alone may lead to so much concrete in the short term, but because it will forever be an important reminder signal for everyone – and not least the legislators – of the fundamental values on which our society and our law will build. Our society is becoming increasingly complicated, not least in the field of technology. Researchers are still showing their innovation, and this is also true of medical research. Some of this research takes place in the border areas between life and death. The Biotechnology Act is still challenging us. Still, it is important to find the right balance between ethics and technology. In the debate on early ultrasound, we are also challenged to take the big debate on the sorting society. Biotechnology gives us opportunities and can do a lot for people. We also need to seize these opportunities, and we need to seize them while taking into account that biotechnology also touches on values that are central to our society, human value and a society with room for all. The right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights, and that's why I'm spending time talking about it today. Respect for human life and human dignity is also fundamental to our own cultural heritage, and it is the very bearer of our values. Our culture is built on the fact that all people have the same value, regardless of integrity, age, gender, civil status and ethnic origin. This right has shaped our legislation and ethical standards in our country. Man is entitled to both human dignity and life because it is a human being. That's the starting point for our attitude to the trend we're looking at today's beginning sorter society. Medical developments have made it possible to still face new problems, both in the first phase of life and at the end of life. An increasing number of diseases can be identified already at the stage of birth, and with an increasing number of advanced foetal diagnostics it is opened to sort out children on the basis of gender or disability. There are also many difficult ethical dilemmas around the end of life, for example. the duration of a treatment. Without a law that specifically protects life, there may be a risk that qualitative assessments of human dignity will be made. It's a development I want to warn against. I finish where I started, saying that for the Christian People's Party, the struggle for the fundamental law of the right to life is a core question. So I hope there are politicians also in the coming period who will raise the tab of the most fundamental of all values, namely the right to life and human dignity. Nevertheless, it is important that future actors in political life are also confronted with these issues and have to address them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e277	I also want to start by thanking the President and the Presidency for the process that has been taking us here. First, a few comments about the position of the Constitution: we have to remember that the Constitution arose neither in a historical vacuum nor in a vacuum based on the thought of the time. We got a constitution that was extremely modern, inspired by both the French and the American revolution. But it also has clear roots in Norwegian legal tradition, and it is important for us to have it. The Norwegian Constitution is based on an idea related to the rights of individuals, justice promoted by debate, and the old thing tradition in Norway. It's important for us to remember, for the Norwegian legal tradition, the Norwegian Constitutional tradition, is based on very strong ties backwards, and which are very different from many of the clan structures on which many of the other countries around us were built. In Norwegian legal tradition, the individual has always been very strong. The rights of the individual have been very much stronger than in many other societies around us – from the Viking Age up to now – with farming, landscaping and larger and larger units, where one meets and discusses and finds agreement. The background and thinking of all of this lie in the justice of the individuals. It's a very individualized right-wing legislation. It's fundamentally different from that one, for example. is located in clan structures in Eastern Europe or in other countries where family, clan and tradition are the starting point for legislation. That is why we have a strong right-wing legislation, a strong individual thinking in Norwegian law, from the morning. That's why it was so easy for the mariners to accept what was in the minds of the American and French revolutions, and that's why it was so easy for them to take over those thoughts. That, I think, is also an important back ground to have when you're going to discuss the role of both human rights and justice. First of all, a few comments related to human rights: I think it's incredibly naive to say that human rights are fully lived out in Norwegian society. I would say that you live in a small bubble as a staging representative if you don't notice the abuses that happen many times. You can only rewind to what's happened in Norwegian courts in the last year, and reveal how many children are being assaulted, how many children are being killed without actually getting legal proceedings about it, because it's so uncomfortable to go through that process. We have e.g. have had abuses related to sexual mutilation in girls, where it has been said that it would be so uncomfortable for the family if the trial were conducted. To me, there is a fundamental misunderstanding of the belief in how a state governed by law should exercise its principles. Our discoveries, for example. With regard to what we've seen in Norway, society almost closes around, because it's so uncomfortable to go through it to be able to charge some relatives for putting things on their child that make the child lose its life. To me, it's a warning that we're not as good at human rights as we often talk about. Everyone sitting in this room has been contacted by many individuals who have had their rights trampled on and who have not had the resources to care for them during their elected careers. We are not going to be naive and believe that human rights are being fully respected in Norway today. Those who do not have the power to impose their rights still have problems, and if we do not take care to have a law that is good enough, and a law that makes these rights enforced, I believe we are not doing our job. For the point of democracy is not, as Lundtigen said, that the majority should have power, and the majority should decide. No, the point of democracy is that the minority should have something to say. The point of democracy is that the individual should actually have a value in addition to that it can have a majority against it. That is what lies in the idea of rights related to the implementation of human rights in a much stronger role in Norwegian constitution than they have today. I was in the reference group related to the power investigation, which was very concerned about the legal process in the Norwegian community. But I think it was a completely different legal process than the implementation of human rights. The legal act was that we use the law, not at the constitutional level, but at the ordinary law, to include a good deal of rights that only the resources that can demand. We're doing it all the time – we're legislating right to kindergarten, we're legislating right to school, we're legislating right to one after the other. It is the legal process that is really a threat to what is involved in the political priorities that Lundtigen addressed. It's about a legal process that can really only ‘cashes’ in those who have resources for it. When we decide the maximum price in this room, it sounds nice for kindergartens, but there is an enormous amount of intervention in how to make good local solutions for each municipality on how to achieve exactly the goals that the law has. I want to be very frank about the legalisation of the Basic Law relating to human rights, but I'm very sceptical about the legalisation of normal laws where we liquidate local maritime governance, and where we resolve the dialogue between individuals in the community to find good solutions to the challenges you face. Then I would like to comment on two of the proposals that lie there, which the Left is in favour of, and which are being dealt with until the next majority period. This concerns the point of freedom of expression, which we want to strengthen so that it applies not only to freedom of expression but also to the right to criticize religion. It's one of the opinions that we see being most pressured around the world, and that's also being pressed in Norwegian society. I think it's important to have into the Norwegian Constitution that we all have the right to express ourselves in terms of critical comments about belief, that there is a right you have in line with other rights. The second right is the right to seek asylum, which is a fundamental human right that I believe should be enshrined in the Constitution, and which I believe is constantly being subjected to pressure. When, for example, I believe that this is a clear violation of human rights. Internalising people to submit an application for something it is a clear human right to submit an application for, I believe is a human rights breach, and it should be clarified in the Norwegian Constitution that it is not allowed. Norway has several judges against it. All of them should be disappointed in this room. The aim is not to shift more power to the EMK, the aim is to have such a good constitution and a good legal basis in Norway that we do not need to be dragged in to the EMK or get a judge against us at European human rights level. But then I also think it is important to frame what are the human rights that are included in the international law that we have joined. Of course, it's the way society is going to make sure that people have their head at it, but when SV has developed socialism to become a point where you're going to have the right to property – which is, of course, a new trend in socialism – I think you're going a little far. Because having the right to own property does not mean that I am a human right, but that we are responsible for everyone’s having the roof over the head, is a Community responsibility. So many of the rights that lie there now, I think I'm dragging the European human rights too far. I still believe that the Left is going to be among the more positive to introduce a much larger catalogue of human rights into the Norwegian Constitution, because it is a correct historical development of the law we have. We believe that there is still a huge gap in Norwegian legislation regarding human rights, and I believe that there are many people who are being trampled on in Norwegian society and who do not have a law that is good enough to handle their cases. So I think the next -- big -- left-couple group is going to be positive to many of the suggestions contained in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e300	I would like to say a few words about the proposals 16, 32 and 33, that is, the proposals on the right to life. There is a cross-political consensus that we should not have the death penalty in Norway. A fundamental law on the prohibition of the death penalty will put real ties on the legislator by preventing the reintroduction of the death penalty in Norway without the necessary qualified majority in the Stortinge. So this is obviously a reasonable, correct and important proposal. However, with regard to other aspects of the constitutional proposals on the right to life, I believe that we need to see this in the context of day-to-day policy. The Christian People's Party has a long tradition of being opposed to the abortion law. It is therefore not surprising that that party will have the wording «Everyone has the right to life and physical integrity from conception to natural death» into the Constitution, for that is a natural consequence of the position of the abortion law. But I ask myself questions about the proposal that every human being has an 'inhabitant right to life', which has been asked by the representatives of Foss, Anundsen and Lundtegen. My question is, what is the concept of a "inherent right to life"? When will this resident court intervene, and is this really an attempt to tighten the framework of the abortion law? When I ask that question here today, it is because the Right in its recently submitted proposal for the party programme again takes up the issue of amending and tightening up the abortion law. In addition, the Right appears to include several other restrictive positions in the policy of genetic and biotechnology. When we then see all these points of view in the context, what is behind my skepticism is to use the wording as an ‘inhabitant right to life’ in the Constitution. So I'm not going to be in any way involved in minimizing many of the challenges facing individuals and society when we're constantly gaining access to new knowledge and technology that gives us new opportunities to control life and death. At least I don't want a social development where parents can choose the traits of their children on more or less commercial terms. Me and the Workers' Party want a society of diversity and space for everyone. That society must be able to develop while respecting the woman's right to determine her own body and life. I am absolutely sure that taking an abortion is one of the most difficult decisions a woman can face. But it is, however, the one that is most qualified to make that decision. The tightening up of the abortion law will be a serious intervention in women's lives and the individual's freedom of choice. That is why I think it is very important that we avoid any doubt as to the future of the abortion law when we are discussing the constitutional proposals today. I would like to support the Kolberg proposal with many others who say, "Every human being has the right to life from birth." Then there will be no doubt about the right to abortion against the provisions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e315	Let me also thank the case rapporteur for bringing this matter to port in a very tidy manner and contributing to the submission of constitutional proposals. Then I would like to refer to what the representative Trine Skei Grande said about the Constitution of 1814 and the Owners – it was as well known as men – and how incredibly radical our constitution must have been in its time, influenced by the American Declaration of Independence and the French Declaration of Human Rights and the French Constitution. As the previous speaker, I will say a few words about Constitutional Law No 33, and will then – naturally – come into the Constitutional Law Nos 16 and 32. Constitutional proposal 33 is from representatives of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left and is about a new section 93 of the Constitution. It's about the right to life, and that's where we're different from the other parties, because it's a question of when to legislate on the right to life – when to start that fundamental law celebration? Of course, we do not disagree with the other parties in the ban on capital punishment, torture and slavery – that goes without saying. While we were working on these issues, there were hearings from several sides, including from some women's organisations, and we got responses to the original proposal of the Human Rights Committee on everyone's "inherited right to life" because, as the Norwegian Women's Association's opinion states, questions about today's abortion law could be raised in violation of such a fundamental law on the right to life. To understand this, we also need to look at Constitutional Bill 16, which is from the Christian People's Party. This is about abortion. Now the representative of the Christian People's Party has gone out – if he has not come back in. The Christian People's Party and individual representatives from other parties, among them the former representative Inge Wohnning, in the previous period, have repeatedly promoted the Constitutional Law on «Right to Life from Birth to Natural Death». In this year’s version, the term ‘Right to Life and Physical Integrity from Birth to Natural Death’ is used. Let me first stress that I share most of what Bekkevuld said about the inviolability and human dignity of human life, well to mark from birth, and that fundamental law should be made from birth. This does not mean that you should not try to save children who are almost fully-bred, in a situation where there is an early birth, without having to legislate. I believe that the proposal of the Christian People's Party means a constitutional ban on abortion in Norway, regardless of where in pregnancy and on what criteria. In fact, it may also mean basic law fixing prohibitions on some contraceptives that do not prevent conception, such as spirals, which do not absolutely prevent conception or conception, but which ensure that fertilised eggs are promulgated, i.e. do not get stuck in the womb. I am sorry to have to go to work as detailed, but it is actually necessary in a matter like this. When the Human Rights Committee came up with its proposal for a new section 93, the alarm bells rang, for the proposal was, "Every human being has an inherent right to life." I just want to point out what Helga Pedersen said: What does "inherent right to life" mean? Of course, we have also looked at how we could formulate a proposal in which we are also very clear about highlighting human dignity, human rights and the inviolability of human life. Of course, we could only have tabled constitutional proposals on the prohibition of the death penalty, slavery and torture, but the right to life in some form is included in most modern institutions in Europe and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and also in the World Declaration, etc. the right not to be deprived of the life you have when you get to the world. So we have two alternatives. One is "Every human being has the right to life", without "inhabitants". But what I personally believe is the right thing to do here is to legislate "Every human being has the right to life from birth", that is, to legislate the life that has been given to us. The life that we have and that we are to take care of should be grounded. This is also, as far as we know, done in Iceland, where you're doing something similar. The second, third and fourth paragraphs of our proposal are in line with the proposal of the Human Rights Committee. The fundamental prohibition of the death penalty, because the right not to be sentenced to death must be universal, regardless of the framework conditions of a society, is very important. It's high time that it did. The same applies to freedom from torture and other degrading and inhumane treatment, and, of course, the prohibition of slavery and forced labour should be enshrined in fundamental law. Others will come back to several of the proposals that we have alternative proposals for. Let me just still use a few words on Constitutional Amendment 35, which is also from the Workers' Party, SV and Left. This concerns the proposal of the Human Rights Committee, followed by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, that «Family is a fundamental Unity in Society». Then comes the formulation of right to marriage, consent, free will, etc. We disagree with the wording 'Family is a fundamental unity of society'. The word ‘family’ can pose some challenges in today’s diverse societies. Let me look at it from a point of view of equality and simply stress that, increasingly when it comes to equality, we have underlined the individual, whether it is pay or retirement, the right to support himself, the right to education, the right to work, career and children for both sexes, the integrity of the individual. We propose to omit that wording and instead say: «Every person who has opened marriage years has the right to establish a family, to marry and to dissolve a marriage in accordance with the provisions of the Law. Marriage can only be made with the consent and free will of the spouses." The latter is very important in today's society. We are constantly getting reports of new forced marriages. I believe that by legislating that marriage can only be concluded “with the consent and free will of the spouses”, we can go a step further. I believe that today we are to a large extent closing our eyes to the young girls in particular, but also some young boys, who are being coerced, and I find reason to ask questions as to whether we would have seen so delicately on this matter if there had been people who initially had Norwegian background and not minority background. Let me also briefly underline, in the case of § 98 on indiscriminate or disproportionate discrimination, that of course it must not conflict with sex quotaing or positive discrimination. It's also taken care of, and others will talk more about it later. Since the debate has also been a little bit about what is going to be constitutionalised and what is not constitutionalized, I need not least to say something about it. I would like to quote again the Norwegian Women's Association, which says that the more they have worked with Document 16, the more problematic a part of the proposals appears. These aren't my words, but this is a voice that might deserve to be heard, because they say, ‘When rights are enshrined as general principles, they are necessarily formulated at a high level of abstraction, away from the concrete reality of the application of the rights. The terms used are often vague and general, imprecise and ambiguous. This increases the risk not only of being able to interpret them differently but of being useful in contexts that were not foreseen by legislators. They may give less protection than more specific legislation and, in the worst cases, may be used contrary to their original purpose.’.» Let me add for myself that the Constitution gives priority, and it's hard to change. There should also be a debate in the next period – when the Constitutional proposals we are discussing today are to be discussed – on the relationship between fundamental law and lawmaking. I would also like to refer to the two debates we have actually had here on the legalisation of local self-government – both when we had the matter and also the one last week – and refer to the statements made by the representative Jette F. Christensen in this regard. The Constitution is a legal document granting some rights. Constitutional principles are laid down for the State, which can be handled by the courts. We include principles in the Constitution because they are general political discussions. If we establish principles that are too vague, we can get there that such principles and rights cannot be the subject of political debate later on. I just want to underline that as well. Lawmaking means that we change laws – we do it all the time – based on the evolution of society and the framework conditions that apply at all times. All of the representatives who have been up in the pulpit have so far stressed quite strongly that what we are doing now is not going to lead to any shift of power in the next period – from the legislative assembly to another constituted power, namely the courts. I believe, however, that there is reason to take that debate when these matters are going to be discussed in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e366	I am not going to extend this debate to a particular extent, nor am I in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but I am reacting a little to the form of the debate and some of the comments that come from the speaker. The number two speaker was Martin Kolberg of the Workers' Party. He used terms that remind me of a saying: what is said and who says it. The representative Kolberg talked about Norwegian values, but what is it? What are these Norwegian values that are very important to the representative Kolberg? The representative, Kolberg, further said that he wanted to establish something in the social model of the Workers' Party. What in the world is that? It was supposed to reflect central values in Norwegian society. What is it? It's also going to reflect the story. Yes, this is fog and very difficult to put words on. I would like to know if the representative of Kolberg could define in particular the term "Norwegian values". I don't think you should use terms, from this pulpit, where there's some kind of undefined understanding, which you hope and believe that people out there have a relationship with. A human right should be something we get by being human. A human right cannot be something that someone else has an obligation to give you. It's a contradiction, if you get a right that someone else has a duty to give you. I think that should also be a support bar in the constitutional changes we're doing. A human right is a priority – before politics. The world of politics is what we're doing here primarily, having different solutions. We all have the same goal: to get the best possible society and the fairest society possible. We should not question each other's motives for what kind of society we want. To the representative of Langeland, who thought it would be a constitutional right to have a dwelling: yes, there are many things I would like to have had the foundation law, and that I would like to have, but that is to say, someone else has a duty to give you this dwelling. Others think that you should have a statutory right to work, but it is of course wiser that you have the right to have the authorities do the best they can to make it possible for you to have a job and a job – not that you have a statutory right to a job or a dwelling. Yes, what is ‘a dwelling’? What is ‘a dwelling’ size? How many people is there room for that? How much is it? Does everyone have a right to that from the age of 16, 18 or 21? When are you by definition human? When do you get this right to have a dwelling, and who has the duty to give you this dwelling? The most important thing about rights is the rights that no one else can give you, namely those that are there because you are a human being. It goes on freedom of expression, equivalency, equality – although it is also challenging in many places – to be able to criticize and be absent from things like torture. These are things that don't depend on someone giving you something or costing you something to others. You have it in terms of being human. There should be human rights, and there should also be something that should be constitutional, in my opinion. There are limits to politics – we all agree on that. But then there must also be limits to human rights-making – if not there can be no limits to politics, otherwise we can actually legislate everything, legislate everything and make everything human rights possible. Then there is no need for different solutions, because then we have basically come up with one solution and say that's how we should be. Then we get an A4 community where all we do is execute rights-based decisions. I just want to end by saying that we all want the best society for the citizens of this country, and in spite of the fact that at least I and most people in the Progress Party will not believe that it is a human right or that it should be a statutory right to have a dwelling or anything else material – whether car, train, dwelling or anything else – we want everyone to have the opportunity to have a home and to make it possible to have access to a dwelling, but there must be work on the basis that one can afford to get a home, even if it has become very expensive, as the representative Langeland said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e388	I see that human rights are something you have, and that the state or other people can violate, and that when we have a constitution and discuss human rights, it is to oblige the state to ensure that fundamental human rights, that is, the rights of the individual, are respected. It's based, as I see it, on a view where the state is for the sake of man, and not the other way around. For me, as an SV member, human rights are the most fundamental political values. It's said that a lot of this is common stuff, and that we all want the same thing. Yeah, in some areas I think that's right, in some others I actually don't think so. There have been several speakers before me today, and I would like to say that in many areas I agree with what both the representative Skei Grande said, what the representative Helga Pedersen said, and what the representative Marit Nybakk said. With regard to what the representative Skei Grande from the Left said, there are two areas where I disagree, and I will come back to that. The representative Lundtigen discussed this somewhat with the position of human rights in relation to contemporary trends. My starting point is a little different: when we discuss human rights and fundamental law, we discuss constituent rights, not in a way to adapt to a trend, but to create a trend and create a reality for a wild development in society. There are many trends. It's bureaucracy. There are also trends around us in Europe, among others. the fight for equality and religion. That's it. That's it. Attitudes towards gender equality among women and men, attitudes we thought was a time gone, come up again. We also see trends as to whether there should be a human rights-based approach to state and legislation, or whether it should be a nationalist and ethnic-based approach to future developments. There are strong trends in Europe today, and it is very important that we say something about what direction we want through our legislation and our discussion about our constitutional principles. Then I'm very happy that we're now discussing getting human rights into our constitution in a much more elaborate way than what we've had before. So there's been a little discussion here about the legalization of society. The representative Skei Grande was concerned about that – not what was in the Constitution, but what was in the other laws. She also mentioned that Norway has been convicted several times in the European Court of Human Rights. That's absolutely right, but that's precisely because we haven't had a law and a law that has followed up the constitutional human rights that people have. That is why we are condemned: because we do not have the legislation that actually ensures this in practice. I also want to remind you that in the power investigation there was a minority, Hege Skeeie, who pointed out just what I think is right to focus on, so not this very concern that people get rights that make them actually get what we say they should have, but that there are also some physical and social rights missing in Norwegian society to realize that human rights and opportunities for equality are going to be there for everyone. These physical and social benefits are a prerequisite for equality of rights, for equality and for being able to be heard in democracy. In particular, it may apply to disadvantaged people or to people with disabilities. How can you be an equal citizen and exercise your democratic rights in this country if you don't initially get out of bed, if you can't understand the language that's being spoken, or the language that's being written, for example. do not see or hear? Then I'm going to say that you're actually in a democratic deficit and not equal to other people in this country. That's why social rights are so incredibly important, and it's not a threat to democracy or anything else, it's on the contrary adopted politically. It can be changed politically, but the laws, regulations and the constitution and the Constitution are also politically adopted, and this is the legal system and bureaucracy to be dealt with. So it's possible to change this. It's not like this is a being that lives completely by itself, on the side of political governance. Then there are some themes that I think it's important to discuss. One is some of the dilemmas between human rights. I am sitting in the Council of Europe, and we often discuss conflicts about either ethnic minorities, or about equality between women and men – typically. There are some dilemmas related to gender equality for women against free religious practice. We have had religious leaders in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and they have been pleasant and sympathetic people, but they have no solutions for us when these human rights collide with each other. They have no answers to give us. Only we politicians can give the answers when these human rights collide with each other. Then we have to pick. And I – and SV – choose equality between women and men and all people in front of the right of some religions to say that someone is subordinate to others. It's very important for us, and then we have to deal with these dilemmas, both in the constitution and in the other laws we have in society. The representative Marit Nybakk was on a theme, and it is this proposal that is about family and marriage. We are concerned that marriage is about something that is freely included and with full consent. It's one of the basic boards, and there we have challenges with both coercion and violence, traditions and religions, saying something about subordination, not only between women and men, but also between individuals and families. That's why I agree with the minority in the sample, Kari Nordheim-Larsen, and what I understand is that the representative Marit Nybakk also mentions, namely that the first sentence of this proposal should not stand there – also because families are changing, and that human rights are about the individual's right initially; it's not about entities other than the individual. That's why the individual is to be protected by the rules we put into our constitution. This is shown in the selection settings. It is also said there that of course it is difficult to determine what a family means, and that it may be different, but that the principle is that it is the individual it is. So there's been some discussion about the proposal on the right to life from conception. I very much agree with what was said both by the representative Helga Pedersen and Marit Nybakk on these two questions. These are very basic and basically difficult themes, of course, but it's also hard to measure it if you're not fundamentally opposed to abortion. If you are, you also get into some violent political dilemmas, as we see in other countries around us, with pregnancy after rape, after incest, after assault, and where there is a danger to Mother's life. You actually have to decide about a number of these things, and then there are a lot of people who fall down on the fact that there are some situations that can be exempted. Then, in my view, there is no basic good answer to why there should not be a legal and medically sound possibility of abortion after a woman's own choice – because it is about a human body. Finally, I should like to say a little about the proposal that SV has been promoting for several years. I have been doing this since I arrived at Stortinget, namely to propose the right to housing. It's not about the right to property, as the representative Skei Grande says. No, it's probably a much more basic and thoughtful idea of why we wanted it to be incorporated into the Constitution. There are some other substantive rights in the Constitution that are not stated either – you do not have the right to a job, even though the Constitution states that you should have the right to a job, but the point is the principle. In Norway, if you are to be an equal person in democracy and vote in elections, for example, you have to have an address. How else could you do that? The community is organized around that people actually have an address and a dwelling. The foundation for work, social participation and other things to be in place is that you actually have such a fundamental right in your hands. The other substantive rights set out in the Constitution, e.g.: work, is about a participating and value-creating responsibility and a right. But housing is a social foundation for society to safeguard the fundamental human rights of every individual. I could also perhaps add that there are some climatic conditions in Norway that make it almost fatal in this country not to have a dwelling, but that's another thing. But the point here is how important this is: point 1, in order for you to be equal in the democratic situation, but, point 2, you have to be able to exercise your opportunities as an equal person in this society, you actually depend on having a place to live. Housing is a material thing. It's not necessarily that the individual needs to own this dwelling, but it's actually of the things that we can politically also realize. For homes are physical things. They can be built, and we can count them. It's a little worse with both climate, environment, work and all these things that we can't necessarily adopt politically. But this is actually one of the absolutely fundamental things that we could have secured through political decisions, and that could have realized that everyone had a much better starting point to be equal also in terms of human rights in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e420	We often discuss changes in the Constitution in this hall, and that's very good. I also want to give praise to those who have been with and lift the groundbreaking debate out of the house and into society otherwise. It's very important to all of us. What is important is that we discuss change often is that a good constitution is one that reflects fundamental values in a society, fundamental rights and, not least, fundamental duties. The selection points to the fact that the Constitution has historically contributed to bringing together the nation across social teams, across generations, in war, in difficult times and in social distress. Silver The Basic Law and the celebration of him are still gathering us and is a great part of our identity. Therefore, it is crucial to maintain the overall impact of the Constitution. The Human Rights Committee believes that it is ‘a nearby need’ that they themselves write, to update the Constitution so that he fits the society we live in. I really agree with that. Respect and values change, and the Basic Law must also follow. The representative, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, instead asked what Norwegian values are. He does not seem to be so interested in the answer, because he has left the hall. But Norwegian values are equal obligations, equal opportunities, regardless of gender, background, religion, culture, disability and affiliation. There are also, incidentally, fundamental and social democratic values. I can understand that the representative Tybring-Gjedde thought it was a bit annoying, but that is the way it is now. Several of the authors of the Basic Law for the first time had a view of women and workers who had not fit into this room or in any of the parties represented in this room – not even in a meeting with Facebook. When you want to change the Basic Law, you have to adjust the Basic Law according to the time we are in, not vice versa. The authors of the Constitution wrote for the future, but they were not at all able to dream about what a welfare society and what a technological and economic development we would get, and what a diverse society we would be, where the goal is for everyone to have equal opportunities. It's easy to forgive, because it was far ahead of you – that time. But we have to do as they do, and we have to learn from them. We have to write for future use from the notes. But we also have to formulate that the Constitution is something that everyone owns, and that everyone can celebrate. Some of the underlying suggestions are not such. It doesn't seem like they're coming forward with the objective of strengthening our rights or describing our values. Especially one of the proposals smells like the political struggle on current issues. Geir Jørgen Bekkewold talked a lot about it in his post, and it's about the right to life. One can set the clock after each time the Christian People's Party in this room makes a basic bill against the abortion law, which they call "right to life". Being against the law of abortion and wanting to restrict it is far from political unity, and it is far from political tranquillity about it in Norway. That's why I didn't think it was home in a constitution to act as a collective value photography of our country. One may turn the clock after the Christian People's Party, but one may not reverse the time. One might say a lot about it in the past, about those who wrote the Basic Law and their values, but I don't want to go back to their view of sex. In itself, it doesn't sound wrong to establish the fundamental right to life. But if one looks with half an eye, and listens to the debate with half an ear, one quickly realizes that it will be used as a political breaker against another abortion law than the one that has been fought by Norwegian women. That's why I think that's the wrong description of our common values. To say that it isn't, falls upon its own untimelyness. The basic law must be written in order to be read and to be followed. So how do you enforce a law that everyone has the right to life from conception? This is a question that we will soon have to answer. I demand more openness in that discussion. If a basic law that everyone has the right to life from one gets caught, what about attackiles? Are spirals to be banned? Is the Christian People's Party really willing to take the consequences? The political consequences of doing it outlawed by abortion, by delimiting some of the contraceptives we already have in Norway, are huge. Abortion will not disappear. It's just about how dangerous it should be for women to carry it out. Wanting to restrict the right of women – and families – to take this type of choice does not belong in the Constitution; it belongs to home in old times. A common value, on the other hand, is the right to life and freedom from the death penalty, and that all human beings have the right to life. That is why we have an alternative – which we have been talking about in the past. We politicians are no better than other people to something special. But that's one thing that I think we're experts on, and that's to misunderstand on purpose. Nothing says that future generations of people like us will abandon it. That's why I think it's important to protect ourselves from it. This applies in particular to § 98 on the principle of equality and non-discrimination. That no one should be discriminated against because of sex, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, linguistic or religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, age or status is a Norwegian value. But what is discrimination? What is discrimination? We have different definitions of that between the parties. Some parties believe that quotaing is unreasonably discriminatory. The Labour Party and many others believe that this is necessary in order to correct social and social discrimination which means that opportunities are already divided differently between sexes. That definition unit is not for imaging, at least in the near future. That's why I don't want to go into the Constitution. In a few years' time, they'll be able to perceive our changes as old-fashioned and out-of-date. I hope that means we're coming forward. But in a way, we can't start off on the negative side. We need to write a basic law that cannot be taken into account for marginal policy positions, and which, in sum, works against what should be our common goal – namely that both sexes are equal and should have equal obligations and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e450	It is my sincere opinion that this has been a very good debate. The size has turned out to be very good, and it is a consensus on the importance of the Constitution in Norwegian society – as I hear it. Then, of course, the representative Tybring-Gjedde was up and said that I had shown up with a ‘wrong speech’ and that I should not do it from the Storting’s pulpit. I understood – and I mean it honestly, it is not meant to be negative in itself – not what he meant. I understood that he did not like what I had said – I understood that. What I said, was that the values that the Workers' Party has also contributed to building in the Norwegian community, it was important that we now considered inclusion in the Constitution. That's what I said, and it was this representative Tybring-Gjede – on behalf of himself, I suppose – thought was a fog. This was not to be invoked, and it was unclear what I meant by the ‘Norwegian values’. I think Tybring-Gjedde is quite alone in having an opinion about what is unclear about the Norwegian values, and then I'm not actually including the Progress Party as a political party, because this is about the very basic things. It is about justice, equality, freedom, legal certainty, freedom of religion and the right to work – as examples of concrete values. The reason I took the floor again was to say that I thought I heard something that I reacted very much to in Tybring-Gjedde's posts – the content of it that he believes the policy should have a limit. He related it to the status of the Constitution in Norwegian society. I would warn against that very strongly – if it were to be an opinion the Progress Party has, I don't think it is, but that's what he said – because I believe that the policy, as the representative Lundteg wisely said in his speech, must be everywhere. That is the understanding of democracy. That is the core of democracy. The place of policy must have such great authority that it is also reflected in the Constitution. That's what we're discussing here. What I heard from the representative Tybring-Gjedde said – and I don't think I overinterpret this – was in contradiction with what the representative Anundsen said. I'm not inviting you to a big debate at the end of this debate – you don't normally do that in Stortinget – but I wanted to keep this second post to mark me against the representative Tybring-Gjedde said. It cannot be an opinion of what is the position of the Constitution. The Constitution is a legal document, but it is also a political document. That's the last thing I heard Tybring-Gjedde didn't join, at least if it was to contain what he called'mook' values, as the Norwegians, spokesperson of the Storting. I think Tybring-Gjedde is quite alone in that perception.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e461	It has been interesting to follow the debate – both in the hall and when you have heard it from a little elsewhere in this building. Not least the issue of legalisation seems to me to be a very interesting topic, which several of the members of the control committee have touched on in this debate. I do not think legalisation is particularly relevant in relation to the changes presented here. Here we are talking about protecting the individual's right to the most fundamental human rights. If one is afraid of legal action in that context, I would say that there are some fundamental challenges to problematizing what that legalisation might be about kind of problem. That's what they say – also from our side. It is clear that we are recording some comments related to the Christian People's Party's proposal on the right to life. Let me say this: sometimes when I hear the debate related to this, you get the impression that the abortion law itself is elevated as if it were part of the Constitution. It's certainly not. I think you should be a little careful not to allow it – because it is a little less that you don't have to pick on it, because then there are problems – to reflect a little on what the current abortion law also means. It must be allowed. We are fully aware that we cannot regulate the Constitution in detail – what a new law that would replace the existing one would have to mean. It actually has to be done in a special law. Let me say it like this: neither can it be of no interest to those who attack us, to reflect on today's abortion law and what it involves. It's actually said that if you have an abortion before 12 weeks, it's okay, after 12 weeks, it's not okay. Then you can discuss why that limit is set. That limit is set for different reasons, but we also notice that the majority in this room has set a different limit – for the unborn life that has some traits that you think are of such a nature that you can extend the abortion limit. Then you've set a different limit when it's right to have self-determined abortions performed. My point is to point out that even though you're a member of today's abortion law, I'm convinced that you actually have to go in and see what the realities it involves. Although I think it is almost proclaimed that there are retrospective questions that do not have much to do with today’s situation, this is very important for the future – because we have a technological development that makes us put on ethical tests, for example. with the forthcoming revision of the Biotechnology Act, which the current abortion law must actually address. We are fully aware that introducing a constitutional provision, as we have proposed, obviously also means having a special law in addition. But I also want to believe that those who are followers of today's abortion law see that there are dilemmas that are well worth discussing – if not exactly in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e472	I really didn't intend to participate in this debate, but I got a little engaged. I want to do something I normally don't do, namely boast of the workers' party ladies who have argued in an excellent way against this proposal by the Christian People's Party. I have a great sense of the Labour Party's alternative in this area. Unfortunately, I cannot vote for it myself, because I am not going to be elected for the autumn, I am not going to re-election. But I will assume and hope that the Progress Party will also in future periods ensure that we have self-determined abortion in Norway. It is a perspective that may not have emerged so clearly in the debate. The focus has been on a proposal that the Christian People's Party wants, including: will affect the use of contraceptives and lead to multiple unwanted pregnancies, with the social and economic consequences it has. Another thing is that the population is now – unlike in the past – very mobile. We have seen that, among other things. on the number of people who use clinics in Denmark for different things. I believe that if such a proposal is adopted, we will have an industry that will grow up in both Sweden and Denmark, where abortion seekers from Norway will be served. In addition, we will have illegal clinics operating here in Norway, with the health problems it will expose Norwegian women to. I will use this post and this pulpit to give praise to the Workers' Party in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e483	It's not always I can say that I join the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen's posts from this pulpit, but I do now. So I would say that I think the representative Syversen is trying to minimize what is really the Christian People's Party's proposal, not to talk about him expounding it. For what is that? The Christian People's Party's proposal for a new section 16 of the Constitution is not a proposal that discusses the dilemmas of what kind of abortion legislation we are going to have, i.e. what limits we are going to have, what criteria we are going to have – far from it. If you base your right to life from conception, then you base your right to life from conception – conception means conception. Firstly, it means the prohibition of any abortion operation, no matter what limits, no matter what conditions. Is that what the Christian People's Party believes? Yes, the representative Syversen shakes his head, but in fact this proposal says ‘the right to life from conception’. So then we have to repeat what both Ulf Erik Knudsen, Jette F. Christensen, signed and others have been in the past. In fact, we have contraceptives — not only in Norway, but also in other countries where there is a basis for comparison — that do not prevent conception. It concerns spiral — especially spiral, and Jette Christensen was also inside the abortion pill as something that would of course also be banned. I do not think that the Christian People's Party should be able to escape defining that this is only about the right to life – something unspecified – and that it is about a discussion of ethical driving rules related to any conditions from the 12th week and beyond. If you legislate the right to life from conception, yes, that means the right to life from conception, and you base the ban on abortion in Norway. Let me also briefly say something about Section 98, second paragraph: «No human being shall be subjected to indiscriminate or disproportionate discrimination». We're on our own, but let me do it the way the representative Christensen did. We have gender quotas in Norway in many contexts – several parties do, but we also have gender quotas for public authorities and private governments. That's why we've recorded a new third term in the big and comprehensive Constitutional proposal where there are different alternatives that have been picked up and where we write: «Women and men have the same rights and obligations. The authorities of the State shall facilitate the exercise, in particular, of women’s rights.’;» This has now been incorporated and taken care of in Constitutional Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e507	Not surprisingly, I would like to make some comments to the representative Kolberg's input from the pulpit instead. He was very hairy when he realized that I had trod him on a sore toe. ‘Foot talk’, I called what the representative Kolberg said. I suppose Kolberg will now be so grown that he does not take the word again, but that he sees that he may have gone a little far. My post can be read in the minutes, and the representative of Kolberg can see what is standing there, instead of suspecting and misunderstandinging it on purpose, as the representative of Kolberg did. There are no Norwegian values - sauna bombs. There are universal values, and there are values to which social democracy swears, but they are not unique Norwegian. Legal certainty or equivalence, as the representative Kolberg referred to as a unique Norwegian value, is not a unique Norwegian value. I am convinced that the rest of most of Europe will completely disagree with the representative of Kolberg when he says that there are unique Norwegian values. There are values that Norwegian democracy has taken up, and on which our society is based – that's right, but it's not Norwegian. The representative of Kolberg also added to the right to work. That was the last value he came up with that was Norwegian. Well, do we have the right to work in this country? It was interesting to know. I actually thought that's what we were debating right now. The representative, Kolberg, also responded that I suggested that there were limits to politics. No, he wouldn't have any of that. Of course, there are no limits to policy in the head of the representative Kolberg – no, policy applies everywhere. In liberalism there are limits to politics, and I guess there is also in social democracy. There's something called family life, and it's something called privacy. There are limits to policy, and there are limits to how far the policy can reach from here, or from the local or county government or other decision-making bodies. There are limits to politics, and there's something called privacy. I hope the representative Kolberg agrees with that, and I hope we can put it behind us. For my post was actually a question to the representative Kolberg, not an attack. The attack back on me was actually very personal, and where he pointed me out – not the Progress Party, but me personally – as one who had some special opinions about values and so on, and there was something in the air from the representative Kolberg. So I hope he either comes to the pulpit and says it wasn't meant to be, that it wasn't his intention, or I hope he doesn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e516	I took the word to follow up the Christian People's Party's articles on abortion, but it's almost impossible not to comment on what just came from this pulpit. I thought it was so that when a country or someone has values, it's not like it doesn't look at them as Norwegian values, although there are others who have them in addition – it just has to be a strength. It's not that Norway or other countries, states or cultures share a value, it's busy, and it can't say it's a Norwegian value. But I'll leave it alone. I thought what the representative Syversen said about abortion was very interesting and a very good example of why we shouldn't take in what they have put in about the right to life. That is because the representative of Mr Syversen is talking about everything other than what the proposal is about. He talks about that we must be allowed to discuss abortion vows. Yes, of course it's allowed, but then we have to discuss it when we're going to discuss abortion laws, not when we're going to discuss a proposal to ban abortion in Norway, because that's what the Christian People's Party has proposed. I would like to discuss technical developments and ethical dilemmas associated with this, but not when there is a completely different proposal that has been delivered. We also did not get an answer to our questions, and I understand that very well. For the answer to our questions, we know, they're hard, they have huge consequences. The consequences of banning abortion in a country, or of banning antagonism or other forms of prevention that can prevent pregnancy, are extremely great for that debt, and I understand that the representative Syversen does not want to bring up either the historical copies or the specimens that exist in countries we do not want to compare with, which do not have legal abortion. The stories don't belong in Norway, and that's why the proposal of the Christian People's Party doesn't belong in the Constitution either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e525	Without having the ambition to introduce the abortion debate something new, I think it is worth just paying attention to the following: When it comes to mentioning the right to life, only the Christian People's Party uses the term "capture" in its own proposal. What the Inge Wage Sample means is the whole sample's perception. They use the term "inherent right to life". I stress that there is unanimity in the sample. The Labour Party has also had people in the sample. That's my comment on it. Leave it. So a little comment on the debate between Martin Kolberg and Christian Tybring-Gjedde. I heard the post from both, and I must say that I did not respond to any of what Martin Kolberg said. I think he expressed what is also my view, that the constitutional provisions promoted by the sample are social values that all parties have been behind. He himself used the expression ‘social democracy has been involved in building’ – I repeat, ‘be involved in building’. It is for once a recognition that many parties have been involved in building these values. Right, my party, has been involved in it at the time the party has existed – and that is for that matter longer than the Workers' Party. There are shared views on how to participate in this at different times, but that there are common values, both rights values and welfare values, that I think can cover the entire Norwegian community, there is no doubt about it. It's a unanimous selection that also stands behind the definition of values. The progress party Carl I. Hagen, who is a member of the sample, has not stressed that these are values, but that some of them are going into the Constitution. That's something you might want to discuss. So this is the definition of values, so Carl I, Hagen's behind it, and let me say this: he's probably been the Progress Party for a long time. Then I just want to draw attention to what Tybring-Gjedde said: everyone must be allowed to ask questions and express the confusion that reigns in one's own head, I will not attack that. But when you think that the right to work is something we should discuss and then insert it into the Constitution, you can't have read the Constitution very carefully. It's actually in today's constitution. The right to the environment — a well-being, to call it that — is a social value that is defined and incorporated into the Constitution. It may be worth looking at the existing constitution before changing it, or before attacking those who want to change it. Otherwise, it is mentioned by the name – as a representative of bigoting – from the pulpit of the Stortinge to not normally count as an attack on persons, I would like to have said that. On many occasions in debates below, I will mention individual representatives, not least Mr Kolberg, but it is not an intrusion of a personal attack. It is rather an honor to be mentioned, I would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e540	The representative, Martin Kolberg, receives the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e544	Three things, short. Of course, this is not a personal attack on the representative Tybring-Gjedde. I heard what he said and respected it. That's why I took the word – and I had a different opinion. The second thing I want to say is that Norwegian values are also European values – and the values of other countries. They are universal, but they are also Norwegian. When we discuss what we are discussing now, we discuss the design of the Norwegian Constitution for the future. Then it's entirely relevant to talk about the Norwegian values. It is quite right that it was just said: I said that Norwegian social democracy had also been involved in building these values. I would like to end by saying that when I hear Tybring-Gjedde, we see the need to get a constitution that gets the formulations that we have here. It's very important that we have a constitution that ensures these values in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e557	I am absolutely convinced that I do not need to tell the honourable Committee on Control and Constitutional Engineering. But I think everyone sees that in many cases the Basic Law is primarily value paragraphs, which need special legislation that elaborates what in practical life is going to result from these value paragraphs. Well, that's what I tried to say about in my post, since it was taken up by the Workers' Party. We want a value paragraph that says something about the right to life – from conception to natural death. This means, of course, that special legislation must provide detailed rules for this, as I pointed out in my article. I record that the Labour Party – and also the Advance Party were told on that occasion, here at least there was full harmony between the two parties – would seem very unfortunate. It's okay. We have a real debate on that, I guess this won't be the last one. But let it be said that for us there is also an important debate. It's an important value sign what you're referring to in a constitution at this point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e564	The representative Marit Nybakk gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e567	The proposal of the Christian People's Party does not say that you should legislate for life, but that you should legitimize the right to life from conception, that is from conception. Then it helps very little how much special legislation you have. The first person to try such a case before the courts or before the Supreme Court will, of course, be taken into account, because there has been a constitutional ban on abortion, and there is a constitutional prohibition on certain types of prevention. I think the Christian People's Party should think a little bit about it. Perhaps they would rather vote in favour of the second proposal that exists, rather than the proposal that they themselves have made. This is not about values, dilemmas, problems, borders and conditions. We are all aware – and everyone believes – that there are dilemmas and problems associated with the entire abortion debate, but this is actually a constitutional ban on abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e574	I had really decided to let the debate go – without further participation from my side. I really think we've been hurt to make an abortion debate out of a debate that's really about something even bigger, that's how human rights are to be incorporated into the Constitution. This is the greatest pre-work for constitutional changes related to human rights that have ever been made. A large part of the debate has been about one, in part two, constitutional proposals. It is a debate we would like to take, but we should take it when the Constitutional proposals are to be debated in the next major period. There have been many good posts. What finally meant that I had to speak was that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party was injured to say that the Constitution is initially a valuable document. I do not think that can be contradicted by this pulpit. The Constitution is primarily a legal document, which gives rise to legal obligations and freedoms. In addition, it is a political document that reflects on the values on which we build our society. To characterize the constitution proposed by the Seven as a matter of value is to a certain extent correct, but in the Constitution it would not appear as a value, it would be a legal barrier. I think it's important that we from Stortinget's side at least don't help to blow more air into the Constitution than it already is. Such absolute limits will have implications for the legislative capacity of this hall by a general majority. I just needed to say it, so it wasn't undisputed that the Constitution is just a value document, because there's so much, much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e585	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e588	I fully agree that there are legal constraints in the Constitution. We have seen that in dealing with several cases in this Chamber in this period, when proposals from the government have been disregarded by the Supreme Court because it is contrary to the Constitution. But my point was that in the kind of paragraphs we talked about here, it is often followed that by a special law that provides a more detailed framework for understanding the more value-oriented paragraphs of the Basic Law. Just to say that, what we want to promote is the protection of life from conception to death. It was almost about that there was a ban on something in different contexts – that is actually not correct. It is a positive term which, of course, requires special legislation. Then I would say in response to Marit Nybakk that we are absolutely there where we are assessing which constitutional provision we are going to vote for in the next period, but we would have this on the table also in this context, so that we have more possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e597	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e616	Toll collection should be targeted at the lowest possible cost. ‘The investigation shows that this has not been realised.’ This was claimed by National Auditor Jørgen Kosmo when this investigation was presented to Stortinget on 11 December last year. The study also found that there has been a significant increase in the use of tolls over the past 10 years. While the drivers paid 3.2 billion. In 2002, the amount had increased to SEK 6.6 billion. kr in 2011, i.e. more than one doubling. The study, which aimed to assess the effectiveness of toll management during this period, concluded that toll collection does not take place at the lowest possible cost, and that as much as 12.5 pst. tolls contribute to operating costs. However, increased automation of toll collection has contributed to the achievement of the objective of least possible roadside disadvantages for road users. Automation was also intended to contribute to a reduction in operating costs. Unfortunately, that has not happened. The costs were reduced from 2002 to 2005, while they increased after 2005 and were above the 2005 level in 2011. A unanimous committee expresses its concern that the objective of toll collection at the lowest possible cost has not been achieved. We also note that in letters to the National Audit Office, the Council of State agrees with the conclusion that there is a potential for efficiency on the cost side. The Ministry of Transport points out that the proportion of road users using tiles is the factor that has the greatest impact on efficiency. In this context, it is pointed out that plans are being made to introduce a mandatory toll bar system for certain categories of vehicles with a permissible total mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, i.e. mainly commercial vehicles. We heard a few minutes ago that the proposition was handed over to Stortinget, and it's also mentioned in today's VG. This could be a useful measure, which could also result in a significant reduction in the number of non-resident commercial vehicles that are currently not paying if we introduce a mandatory piece. Companies also have large losses on receivables as a result of the fact that road users do not settle separately. This amounted to as much as 172 million in 2011. kr. The National Audit Office also points out that weaknesses in technical solutions to the collection equipment have resulted in loss of income and that weaknesses in the performance of maintenance and operational services have resulted in lower performance. One company lost as much as 10.5 million. DKr due. faults in the collection equipment during the period 2008 to 2012. In addition, the National Audit Office criticises weaknesses in the direction and follow-up of the Ministry of Transport, where it appears that the Ministry gives little guidance signals about the toll management itself. I am pleased that a unanimous committee agrees with this criticism. The Ministry of Transport states to the Riksrevision that today the Directorate of Roads has the overall management responsibility as the toll management is organised, while the department only has an overall role. The Ministry claims that they can take a clearer responsibility for governance, and a unanimous committee requires this to be done. In addition, the report has revealed significant shortcomings in the competitive outsourcing of the acquisition of the operator by the companies. The Ministry of Transport claims that the Directorate of Roads should ensure better procedures for reporting on acquisitions and how this is followed up in the State Road Service. Regardless of the political position and regardless of what we may think about the use of tolls, we all agree that we need to have the most cost-effective operation of the collection, so that the money is spent as much as possible on what they should: building roads and other infrastructure. I therefore assume that the Ministry of Transport is now taking seriously the signal given both from the Riksrevisionen and from Stortinget, so that in the future we will have a much more cost-effective collection than we have today. The Progress Party believes that we need to finance mainly the development of national and county roads and other infrastructure using state money and without the use of tolls. We record that significant amounts of car and fuel charges are currently being levied, while only a small part of this is being returned to the road sector. At the same time, a growing number of tolling stations are constantly shifting new burdens on the drivers. The Progress Party disagrees with this development. I will not go up the big debate about this today, but I can promise that we will come back to this in appropriate debates in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e640	Thanks to the case spokesperson for a good review of both what we are a few about, and we're a little confused about this, and for the work he's done in this matter. There is a joint committee which is concerned that the objective of toll collection at the lowest possible cost has not been achieved. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister for Transport himself has stated that there is a need for efficiency on the cost side, both in letters to the National Audit Office and in other forums. Even more happy is that one not only expresses that one wants to do something about something that is a problem, but that one actually does. It is obvious that the department takes this seriously, which they exemplified very recently, when the bill on mandatory toll barges for heavy goods vehicles was presented. And it is very good that Marit Arnstad said in connection with this that the scheme will promote competition on a level playing field between Norwegian and foreign transport industries, in addition to contributing to the achievement of the goal of toll collection at the lowest possible cost. It is therefore the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that strongly trust that government action, which will help to achieve this goal, will work. And that's why we're making our own comments on this, where we're pointing out that the government is working for a more efficient operation and toll collection, both by getting more running gear to use a piece and by merging a bomb company. We think that both parts will lead to less administration and lower operating costs, and that one will make sure that a greater part of the toll goes to what they should go to – to the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e647	It is good that the National Audit Office follows up this activity and submits a document that is absolutely suitable for improvement. For this reason, it has evolved from being a relatively small business 20 years ago – with some ferry redemption projects here and there – to becoming a large and significant business with many, many billions of dollars in turnover and liability. It is also good that the Riksrevision follows up the management of this, and I am also very pleased that the Riksrevision points to the Ministry of Transport's clearer role in this. I think that's a good signal, and I think we're going to take it further, and that's also part of the unanimous comments of the committee. Toll companies are – almost without exception, I think – organised as limited liability companies. So the board of directors and owners are responsible for the business at all stages, according to the Share Act. Of course, this applies to operations, in the case of acquisitions, not least to one very large debt portfolio in many cases, and of course to follow-up of write-down decisions. This is a great responsibility. When we know that for the current year, the government has added up to $9.8 billion. kr in contributions from these companies on the State side, and SEK 4,5 billion. kr to county roads, it has gradually become a significant amount. My impression as a transport politician is that these companies and governments – at least largely – are busy doing a good job, keeping costs down and striving for the lowest possible cost of loans. But as we've organized ourselves in Norway, it's a bit in the nature of the matter that all of these projects are going to say like a wish from below. It is only one company that is directed and wanted by the state, and it is the Svinesund link. It is then also in the nature of the case that it is important to consider the responsibility between these companies and the State and not least another important partner of the company, namely the county councils, which often assume a significant guarantee liability for the debt portfolio of the companies. Some of these companies probably have a board composition that might have been more professional, to say the least, but it also often reflects the fees of these boards -- they're very modest fees, and some don't even have fees for their governments at all. Let's think about what is the main issue of the Riksrevision. It can be done, among other things: on the management of the large loan portfolio. We were in a period of time within an arrangement that the department itself imposed on the companies, namely to show that they had secured their future borrowings of 6.5 pst. interest rate. This was part of the conditional basis in the propositions. From the right we protested against this every time, and now it's gone. Because it always turns out that when you have county guarantees for your funding, in most cases it is right to have a funding strategy that also has quite significant elements of floating interest rates and that you use them. It has proved to be profitable over a long period of time. With regard to operating, there is a weakness in the system as it works today, and we also see that the majority of the committee points out. It is that the responsibility for acquisition and responsibility for operation – and not only that, but also the responsibility for concluding operating agreements – has not been added to the companies themselves. This means that you get this communication gap in relation to the need you think you have, and that errors in operation are not communicated well enough. This also points to the majority, and it is important that this is looked at more closely. In England, they have a model they call the coco model – company-owned, company-operated – as a basic rule. That model places the responsibility where it should be, and I think it's worth thinking about also in this case. Then I want to give a message to the councillor Arnstad, who is also here in the hall today, because she has taken a case that we traveled from the Right a few years ago, namely this with a piece in heavy vehicles. She has presented this here today – we now have the matter for consideration in the committee – and it has happened at a pace that is very, very good, and we are very pleased with it. There are some things that we still have to discuss, but in general, this is a very good action. I'm a little unsure whether we've come up with the final solutions to keep the cost level down, but what's at stake is that now you're going to develop this to be a better matter for the companies as well as for the State Road Administration and the Department. Competitive outsourcing is always a positive measure to keep costs down. After more and more of these projects have been automatically collected, one must have a professional actor to take care of what results from the entire recovery plan, and as of today, there are actually only two companies in the country that can take this solution. We could like to see that we had more people competing over this. One of the companies that have competence and that could have done so is the Mountain Line here in Oslo, but they have chosen not to put off their business. If they did, they could also have helped keep costs down for other companies. Finally, a curiousness, and perhaps also an indication, in the Riksrevision report: Especially when it was presented, it was pointed out that two companies had more operating costs than income. That's not quite a correct observation. One company uses what is also done in all other companies, namely to activate the right of collection, and to have the same size as the corresponding balance sheet item in force at any time, which is the debt. The fact that you write down on this court will appear to be a deficit for years on end. So it's just a technicality and not really. This company had significant revenues and paid off its debts. The other company is in my home state. They do not have revenues at all, except for marginal revenues under a pre-toll scheme, but they have significant costs because they are already building a large project. This, of course, appears in the accounts. On the right, as stated in our remarks, we will recommend looking at the division of roles, and that financial responsibility also follows responsibility for investment and operation, and that this should be accompanied by a reform for larger and more professional companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e673	The rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Voksdal, has made a good presentation. It's done a good job from the National Audit Office. There is a large increase in tolls in this period, from 2002 to 2011 — it is above double, from 3.2 to 6.6 billion. kr. Three key objectives are the least possible disadvantage for road users, the lowest possible costs and the highest possible performance. The main findings are that the automation of the collection has achieved the objective of minimising the disadvantage. Otherwise, the goal is worse. The Minister for Transport, in a letter dated 18 October 2012, has supported the conclusion of the National Audit Office and thus shows a good willingness to change for improvements, as opposition representatives now say, and as I would like to emphasise. A mandatory toll bar is added for certain categories of vehicles with a total mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes. It's an important point that I want to stay a little bit. It will reduce the number of non-paying non-resident vehicles and has a maritime impact on the revenues of toll companies. What is equally important is that if we get such a mandatory toll bar, we will be able to have equivalent competition in heavy traffic in Norway between those companies that have largely Norwegian ownership – and thus are easier to fine – versus those that have foreign ownership, and that are difficult to fine because they avoid, among other things. toll charges. It is given honor to the Council of State, and I fully agree with that. The Ministry of Finance has also been present here, and on the part of the Finance Committee, it has been a matter for many, many years that one here had to change, so that we ensure that the fees that are significant for heavy transport in Norway are equally and equally fairly distributed between the vehicles that own Norwegian and those that have foreign ownership. The Government Parties join an overall committee on the criticism of the Riksrevision regarding the need for better governance and follow-up by the Ministry of Transport. So it's the tradition that we have here that someone wants to do that one can to make it better, which the Council of State has also joined in their letters. Toll management is organised in such a way as to ensure that the Directorate-General for Road Transport has overall management responsibilities, while the Ministry has only a very general role to play. As we now understand the ministry, the management responsibilities of the ministry will become more prestigious and stronger, so that subordinate agencies do what needs to be done. Finally, three points. It is essential to add to fewer toll companies in order to reduce costs. It is also essential that one should look at the remuneration of members of toll companies, and one should also look at the many examples of travel abroad with low benefits, which have flourished in the media. In one case that we will get to the next round, it says that in several whole-time public companies and corporations, the overall financial compensation of management has reached an too high level. It is also a premise that the Minister of Transport may use to point out to the companies, directly or indirectly, that a person must reduce compensation to those in those establishments when there is reason to do so. Finally, there are large differences in the terms of loans and deposits of companies. That is also a point that I will eventually dwell on. It should be unnecessary that there should be different loan and deposit terms. Yes, it should also be unnecessary for public roads, whether state or county, to enter the private market in order to receive funding. It should be possible here that a financial instrument was provided by the State and thus secured cheap capital, long-term capital and a level playing field for capital. The financial position of the State should be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e692	Let me also begin by thanking the rapporteur for a good introduction and explanation of the matter. The drivers are currently helping to finance a large proportion of road development in Norway. It is important that we have a toll system that the drivers trust. The collection must be reliable and it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that it is. As much money as possible has to go to the administration. In its report, the Court of Auditors concluded that the objective of the lowest possible cost of toll collection has not been achieved in recent years. There has therefore been a significant increase in the operating costs of the bomb companies from 2005 to 2011. In 2011, operating costs amounted to a total of 12,5 pst. of the revenues, and in 2010 two bombers had far higher costs of operating the bombs than they received in tolls. This is serious, and it is clear that such things as this weaken the legitimacy of the tolling system. The National Audit Office clearly states that the Ministry of Transport has a very overarching role and gives little guidance signals in this area, and that there are weaknesses in the follow-up of toll companies by the State Road Service. I believe that this is serious criticism. A broad majority believes that it is right to say yes to tolls when there is a local wish for it. For the Christian People's Party, it's more important to say yes to a new road than to say no tolls. But then toll management must be as reliable and effective as possible. So the systems have to get better. There are gains to be gained by providing good terms and conditions relating to interest and loans raised. It would also be right to look at a reform in terms of the number of bomb companies in the country, as others have also experienced. But I would also like to mention this that has been up in the past, namely mandatory pieces in all cars. As the National Audit Office points out, there is a large loss of claims as a result of the fact that road users do not pay for their passages. In 2011, it amounted to a total of 172 million. kr for the companies. I am very pleased that the government last Friday presented a bill on mandatory toll bar for all vehicles over 3,500 kg. However, the mandatory piece should also, in our view, be introduced for lighter vehicles, not just for heavy vehicles. Missing pieces in automatic installations involve the cost of image processing for companies. In addition, the absence of a piece causes too often a direct loss when it is not possible to identify the vehicle. A mandatory piece requirement will significantly increase the efficiency of operations. Finally, the Council of State has in the past been measured in terms of the competitive outsourcing of operations. It could have been interesting to hear her assessments now. Here's some real gains to pick up. I hope that the Council of State Arnstad will respond to whether this is an instrument she will now assess, so that we can get a more cost-effective system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e709	National Audit Document 3:5 on Toll Management shows that there is an improvement potential related to the entire toll management system. It is a conclusion to which the Ministry of Transport, in a letter to the National Audit Office, has agreed, in the sense that we have pointed out that there is potential for efficiency to be exploited. I have noticed that the Committee, through its position, has clear expectations of follow-up in order to contribute to such efficiency and to better implementation. The ministry will contribute to this. I'm going to come back to it a little bit, related to the different findings that the National Audit Office has done. But first I want to point out that it found that we are going to take along as positive, is that the automation of toll collection has greatly contributed to achieving a target of the least possible disadvantage for the road user, in the sense that it is focused on user friendliness, which has been important in recent years. Then, of course, the big question, which has been discussed in the Chamber today, is the objective of toll collection at the lowest possible cost. It's not realized. There is a potential that needs to be worked out, both through efficiency and reorganisation. In its report, the National Audit Office writes that the factor that can have the greatest impact on efficiency is the question of the share of use of chips. There is also the background to the government’s submission of a proposal for a mandatory piece for vehicles above 3,5 tonnes. This is a step in the right direction, not only in terms of achieving a level playing field between foreign and national professional transport, i.e. heavier transport, but also in order to achieve a better and more efficient collection of tolls from all — both foreign and domestic vehicles. I think it's necessary to move on that way. This also means that we will continue to work on the question of being able to introduce an automation that is linked to all users, so that it becomes mandatory for all users. It'll take a little longer. One of the reasons for this is that the anonymisation that needs to be implemented is a little demanding data protection. The dialogue we have had with the Data Protection Authority about this is important. I believe that this is going in a positive direction. But there is a question the government intends to come back to Stortinget at a later stage. I also want to mention another instrument that is also important in terms of efficiency. It is that one can manage to reduce the number of toll companies in Norway. I also think that is a necessary and important instrument. Today it's about 50. In the first place, it should at least go down to one per. State. There has been a hearing in the different counties on this subject. The Road Directorate will return to the Ministry of Transport in a very short time with a summary of that hearing. It will be interesting to see the views of the various states on the question of reducing the number of toll companies. It is also the case that there are observations from the National Audit Office relating to the management and follow-up that have been made by the Ministry of Transport. That's what we're dealing with. We will take greater responsibility for getting a more comprehensive and tighter reporting of key figures and an analysis of key figures. Toll management will also become a more comprehensive theme between the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Road Transport at the permanent management meetings held with the Directorate. As far as the Directorate is concerned, from 2013 they have added to a tighter follow-up of the toll companies. This concerns both the issue of the maintenance contracts concluded and for which new contracts will be concluded on an ongoing basis during 2013. It also concerns the question of acquisition procedures, reporting of accounting figures and the follow-up and analysis of toll companies' accounts. The National Audit Office has also pointed out in the report that there are major differences in the terms and conditions of the companies’ loans and deposits. I have noticed what several representatives have said here today about it. It is clear that some of what has developed strongly from 2006 to today is that there is a large debt portfolio related to toll companies. Having a professional administration related to capital and borrowing is very important. It is also important that they have an ongoing and strategic assessment of the loan agreements concluded. Now, in the last toll propositions, it is possible to have interest rates that are not linked to fixed interest rates but to more current interest rates. Being able to have a closer follow-up to the interest conditions of the toll companies is quite important. It's basically a responsibility for the companies maritime. But it is also the case that the Road Directorate has to have a clearer and clearer role to play in following up. They should also, if necessary, acquire external skills in order to be able to carry out that job. I see that there is a great deal of consensus in the committee. On the government side, we are willing to go through the necessary measures to achieve more effective toll collection, to get a structure and organisation of toll companies that reduce unnecessary costs, and to get the most efficient system possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e735	I noticed that the Council of State said that it is really the company's own responsibility to improve its loan and interest conditions, which in today's system is quite right. I also noticed that the State Council of Arnstad's party colleague Per Olaf Lundtägen in his contribution called for a model that the Progress Party has also previously called for, which will help to provide much more favourable and better loan conditions for the various toll companies, by providing them with low-interest government loans. It probably does not help much for most toll companies to be allowed to go from fixed to floating interest rates. The risk will also increase with such a system. When you have a country that invests in foreign road projects, it's only reasonable what the representative Lundtegegen said at the end of his speech, namely that the state can offer reasonable loans to the companies, with the infrastructure jobs they do in many ways on behalf of the state. Will the Council of State now tell us that she agrees with her party colleague Lundtägen on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e742	I also took note of the views of the representative, Mr Lundtegen. But I have to say that on the government side, we have no plans to change the system that is today, which makes the toll companies responsible, both for the borrowings they make and for the ongoing strategic assessment of their loan portfolio. There are no decisive changes in that system ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e747	Just a brief follow-up, because I understand that the government's policy is firm, based on the response to the Arnstad Government Council. At the same time, the State Councils have the opportunity to influence policy in their own area to a large extent. I would like to hear about the state council, as a member of the Central Party, the same party as Lundtigen, and with the important function of government, the state council will work to bring about the kind of changes that will reduce the large cost of the bomb companies at interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e753	In this case, the Council of State has no other opinion than that of the government. It was not very surprising – if I know the representative Anundsen right – that I came up with that answer. It is clear that in any way to organise borrowing and lending operations, it is our position that toll companies must constantly be on the lookout under the best possible conditions relating to the borrowings they make, both in the case of new borrowings, and also in the case of renegotiation of the existing loan agreements they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e760	Just a little comment on the previous replicator – and the answer. There are also companies that have a higher deposit rate than they have a borrowing rate, and they have very good capital management. I want to ask you a question that has not been raised this time, but it was the last time, that the solution to some of these challenges should be a state-owned company. It's not that many years since we suggested it in this room, that the state should take over all the administration and ownership of this company. I want to ask the sitting council how she looks at it. Is there an idea she's now working on in her department, or is she working on the model she's mentioned now, namely with regional companies to a greater extent, with the ownership we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e767	There are no plans for a large state company. I think the most important thing to do, which can also happen in the short term, is to merge some of the local and regional companies and get larger and powerful companies. I think that way you can go down a little bit, but at the same time I think you should be aware that many toll companies, sailing if they have the sole purpose of collecting tolls, are based on a significant degree of local legitimacy and – in a way – a local feeling for the project to be built. We must try to combine efficiency with local legitimacy. Then I think that combining the local and regional – at first – one in each state is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e774	I asked a direct question in my post to the Arnstad Council of State about this with the outsourcing of operations. I asked if she would answer whether this is an instrument she will now assess, so that we can get a more cost-effective system. So it's a competition issue – a direct question to the Council of State – and I hope she can answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e779	I am a little uncertain as to what the question really was about – whether it was about the outsourcing of the toll companies or the operation of the toll companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e784	This is about the operation, as I underlined in the article.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e789	I think I'll answer that like this: it's a little up to each toll company how to organise the operation. It's not the state that runs it, and it's not the individual county councils that run it, but the various toll companies are now organized as an AS in many cases. The way they choose to organise their own operations, and how they buy services from others, is largely up to them. Our concern is that it is done in the most efficient and cost-effective way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e794	So the line chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e810	This matter is a little special in the sense that a case has been raised in the committee and then carried out a hearing, with strong emphasis on this in the committee. The representatives of the government parties have provided an attitude which also contains polemics against the majority of the committee in order to raise a case and to organise a hearing. I'm going to leave that polemic in this context, but just saying that an overall opposition says that when the Council of State in the newspaper, in particular the Business of the Day of 16 January 2013, says that the Committee's intention is to ‘make the most noise’, this is a misunderstanding, in addition it is also an under-estimation of the control task of the Storting. I want to say it on behalf of what is a majority committee, but that in the Storting is the opposition parties. I would also like to say in the introduction that this is not a hearing on so-called party nominations, as it was produced in some media. I do not intend to examine the party background by individual appointment, and that is not the issue here. That's not what we've been criticizing either. It concerns the professionalism of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the way it manages appointments, in particular in companies where the State is not the sole owner but the partner with several, and where the companies are listed on the stock exchange. It is not about state ownership either. It has been said many times in the debate that this is an attempt to undermine state ownership etc. No, it's not. We're going to take that debate somewhere else. My party has made a number of proposals on, for example: full sale of Entra Eiendom, full sale of the Flytrain, full sale of Mesta and sale of SAS at an appropriate time – but then you might want to discuss whether there are buyers than how topical it is to privatize it. These are the positions I stand for, and that are shared by some parties – not all – in the opposition, but that is not what this matter is about. It's a siding. That matter is concerned, is the importance of professional and properly implemented state ownership. We start from three specific companies: Telenor, Kongsberg Gruppe and Entra. This does not imply criticising all administration. A number of other companies have been brought forward where the Chairman of the Board has been called upon to take the initiative of the Workers' Party, for example: a director of Mesta, who says he has nothing to criticize his ownership of, and that's okay. I'm happy about that. It was supposed to be missing, too. In fact, the task of controlling the size is to check where it does not work. We have pointed out here a number of errors that result in a proposal. I'll come back to that. So, in other words, in the subsequent debate I don't want to feel that we are criticising all of the state's ways of managing ownership, but we are drawing up some concrete examples. You could call it a random check. There is something any government council must find in it without being offended for that reason, or without the government parties taking too strong a word. The State currently manages funds through its ownership of more than 600 billion. kr, with thousands of jobs. The meaning is to have such a professional ownership that this does not reduce the value of the company, nor the value of the country's ownership of the companies. There is a risk that such a deterioration may arise as a result of State uncertainty — state ownership. There may be confusion about the role of the State, the protection of minority shareholders may be impaired, there may be recruitments or appointments that are not fully merit-based. There may be a lack of government willingness to change, and it may weaken a company that is in a tough process and in a tough market. Listed companies may – I stress – have lower values if the state is on the owner’s side. This is often referred to as the so-called government discount. This risk has been pointed out by the stock exchange manager on several occasions, and there has also been a discussion as to whether the exercise of ownership is precisely leading to such a decrease in value. This is the background for the hearing. The hearing was based on three specific issues, as I mentioned, and I allow myself to refer only to the views of the majority of the committee. I have some problems getting involved in the minority's view, even though I am the case rapporteur, but I am absolutely convinced that the minority will speak in a clear way. The majority of the Committee, i.e. the opposition parties in Stortinget, believe that the Telenor case is a clear example of discrimination against shareholders. We refer to the appointment process of the board of directors of the company – and this is therefore an international, listed, large company according to Norwegian and European circumstances – where the electoral committee, or the nomination committee, as one calls it, held 23 meetings. The nomination committee had reached seven competent candidates who had been interviewed after a thorough process. International consultants were also inside the picture. Following the completion of this process by the nomination committee, the Ministry required two candidates to be admitted to Telenor’s governing bodies. One candidate, the first proposed, was not accepted as qualified by the company. Then came the department with candidate no. 2nd@item: inlistbox He was accepted. Let me say it like that, to quote Einar Førde: Makta Rår – also in the shareholder community, and it is clear that when the majority winner makes proposal No. 2 and say here, but no longer, I think enough that professional people in the company understand what that means. A letter has been sent to the store, or at least the committee has been made aware of a letter from the last-mentioned Hallvard Bakke, who believes that he has been subject to the highest level of quality control, having been interviewed once by the nomination committee, and the interview lasted for an hour and a half. Let me say it like this: it's not the same selection process that the rest of the board has been through. That is what I mean by the fact that appointments are not merit-based, and that can create uncertainty in the company. This member of the Management Board has therefore been appointed without the same prior process as the rest of the Management Board. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right say that this is clearly a discrimination which has led the ministry to break the premise in the bigges of ownership and to create uncertainty about the company. We've had a hearing where we've gone to some unusual step to also summon representatives of the companies. Dialing is not the right expression -- they're invited, but as usual they come. And let me put it this way: it's clear that representatives of the company are facing their biggest shareholder, speaking with great care, but I still want to quote what the chairman of the nomination committee in Telenor said. Among other things, he spoke out. that he has never experienced that there will be recordings for candidates so late in the process. He went on to say: "I have been through many settings, and by having a representative from the Department of the Committee, we have had ongoing approval of the candidates." So anyway, the input into the process is going to be so late. I also want to quote what Harald Norvik said at the hearing. He was not then the head of either Telenor's board or the very least electoral committee, but he has a lot of experience as head of state-owned companies. He says the following about a process – which I would like to give my support: ‘when the State chooses to invite others as owners next to it, it imposes an obligation on it to act in accordance with the principles applicable to mixed ownership and to the principles to which the State itself has provided.’ [[...]] I repeat that it is a principle to which I cordially subscribe. The other matter we examined was the way the state behaved to the Kongsberg group ASA. There were no board members on elections. The state made its contribution after the process was completed by the company, and recorded a proposal for the current and current LO leader, Roar Flåthen, as a member of the board. The solution to the process was that Flåthen became an alternate member, but with full payment as a board member – a somewhat strange solution to which no parallels are found. Representatives of the Electoral Committee also made it clear that the chosen compromise, which they referred to as the choice of an alternate member, was not an optimal solution for the company, that they had never considered similar solutions before, and that they did not believe that there would be any similar situation in the future – that is, a typical one-off event, we hope. On the question of whether the electoral committee felt the pressure, the representative of Kolberg at the hearing was quite anxious to present this as if there was no pressure. He said that the government says that we want LO leader Flåthen in the board, there is no pressure on the board – this is how Kolberg would present the matter. Election committee member Alexandra Morris, who is not in charge of the state in the electoral committee, very clearly replied no to questions as to whether this was the situation. Of course, they felt like a press – she said no to the representative Kolberg’s statement that there was no pressure. You might believe it, but let me say it this way: it is at least a special solution that an alternate without board of directors gets the same compensation as a fully responsible member of the board. I think you're going to be looking for a couple more parallels. In the case of Entra Eiendom, we have gone into a slightly different issue. In short, there is the issue that went too long from the Council of State received a recommendation on instability in the interests that his relative, in order to use the expression of the law, was speaking as director of the company. This is an entire state-owned company, where contacts with the board of directors by extension and appointment are pretty close, and similar close by directorship, because the state owns everything. It took too long for him to assess his incapacitation until the Council of State was appointed. It's a little bit incomprehensible why it should take so long, because it's really a very, very simple process. It's not illegal to be incapacitated, it's not even critical. However, it is critical if you do not follow the advice and remove suspicions of incapacity by, for example. the appointment of a Member State Council by appointment or, as in this case, a director’s appointment, in which the State was certainly not directly involved, but it was, as the chairman also said, a close dialogue on the issue with the Ministry. This has led us to promote a proposal from the opposition parties which reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to review its practice with regard to the selection of directors of companies in which the State has large interests and to ensure that the assumptions of the Storting are followed up.’ The assumption of the size refers to the treatment of ownership messages. Since the suspension was issued, there has been a certain debate in the media because representatives of the Norwegian Institute of Directors – several were directors of state companies – wrote a rather extensive chronicle in the Evening Post on the principles of ownership. I did not react to that article, when I basically fully agreed with everything that was said and written, but I read that the representative of the government parties, Martin Kolberg, ‘torders’ against the critics, as it is called, or to quote: ‘This is a political statement and the members of the board who are behind it must now consider whether they can properly represent the State. They say something different in their chronicle than what the majority believe, says Vice-Chairman of the large-scale Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs." I think the board members should be safe, because they have expressed themselves entirely in line with the general principles of ownership management. I would like to quote one of those who wrote the article, Olaug Svarva, who is the head of the Folketry Fund, also called the State pension fund Norway, which on behalf of the state is a major investor in Norwegian business. Here are two quotes about ownership: ‘They’ — the State — ‘must be aware that they are part of a shareholder community and that it commits’, says the head of the Swedish Social Security Fund. And on the other hand, ‘But shareholders’ own involvement and respect for the processes are a prerequisite for transparency and efficiency in this work. Therefore, anchoring processes of the largest owners are not bad business management until the Electoral Committee has completed its work.» There is no doubt that the article and opinions of these members of the Norsk Institute of Directors support the criticism, what I would call the relatively mild criticism, which the majority of the Committee, the opposition parties, are addressing the Council of State in this context. I may think that opinions from such people with long experience in the management of state ownership should be met with something other than a threat of being kicked. I aim here at Martin Kolberg's statement, which I quoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e885	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e888	There can be no doubt that the background to this case at all was claims from the right parties that the Council of State Gieske had violated the rules of the Stortinge governing the exercise of ownership. Now I hear the case rapporteur says that this is not the case. That's not what we've been dealing with, he says, and we haven't dealt with party appointments either. I'll come back to it. But when he says this, I'm going to ask the representative Foss the concrete question: does this post that he just held in Stortinget mean that he rejects the claim that the Council of State has violated the rules for the exercise of ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e893	No, no, no. I believe that the principles of the Stortinget have been established for the exercise of ownership, require that there is a parallel process between the company and the state, and that there is transparency in this that ensures that all board members, on behalf of all groups of the company, are treated equally. This is particularly important in companies listed on the stock exchange and the importance of the consideration of minority shareholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e898	In my post I will later explain the problem I am now travelling in the line change. There were none of the representatives from the election committees who were called to the Stortinget, who thought they were under pressure or who thought it was strange that the state had proposals for candidates. They had a note about the time on some occasions, but several of them also said that it was common that such things happened, that it was handled correctly, and that this had not affected the authority, reputation or value of the companies on concrete questions. In other words, there is no basis for claiming that this is contrary to the Storting guidelines and the Storting decision. Therefore, we can see that that part of the claim from the opposition has fallen to the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e905	As usual, such a finding must be on Martin Kolberg's own account. It's like a world of its own that's being created. Of course, no representative of the company will sit in an open hearing and say that the company's reputation is weakened and the value of the company is reduced. These are professional people. If they say something like that, they charge the state millions, not to say billions, of dollars in losses. No responsible board members will say that, as I know them. What was said was that the process was unusual. It was said directly from the Cross Sea. They are not used to such overtime recordings, and this leads to different board members being treated differently. In any case, there is a fact in the case of Telenor, where not the first proposed, but the one proposed in the second round was chosen after a number of shorter selection process than that of the other members. An election committee sits and has 23 meetings, and then comes an appointment without having been in the discussion at all. It must be said to be a special treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e914	What the representative Foss is now saying is very clear evidence of his political intentions in this matter. He used the expression "powerful raw materials". He means, in other words, that the state should sit still and accept everything that comes, even if one has alternative opinions about a board composition. Then it is the power that prevails, while everyone else that is proposed – which we have not discussed, naturally enough – from the private side, is not commented on. For example, when the same State Council appoints former Right-State Council Børge Burnde to Chairman of the Governing Board of Mesta and member of Statoil's Board of Directors, we do not hear a sound from the opposition in this Chamber about the government's handling of appointments. It's when names they don't like come up with speech that they react. That's what party politics is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e921	No, it's not my intention, I haven't said that, and it's not my opinion. I have not spoken about like or not like representatives, neither Hill nor the first proposed, not elected, who eventually became a member of the business meeting. I believe that the state should have the power to propose. But the state must follow certain rules of the game. There are now a number of board members who have spoken in the newspapers about it. My point is, to quote the answer again: ‘My point is that we must have the right competence and composition of the Boards’. Or the following: ‘The answer is that we have to have good driving rules for what is good corporate governance and business management, and that these should be followed, for example when new board members are to be elected.’ – i.e. driving rules. You can have power, and you can do it. At least it was an approximate quote from Einar Förde, which I think is a good quote. It often hits. However, certain driving rules must be in place. I also think, if I may add, that what happened after the suspension was given, Martin Kolberg's statements, threats to the board members, is an example of a breach of political driving rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e938	The representative of Kolberg is now in a polemics with his co-representative. If there are more questions, this is the last line the representative of Kolberg gets. Then there are articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e941	I respect the President's right to rule this, of course. I want to say that what we heard before this case came to consideration was claims that here it was camaraderie. The right parliamentary leader said: this is shocking. The majority of the Committee sent a letter to the Council of State asking him to explain to one candidate, asking for an answer. It shows the party political game, and here it is a game. That is what we have reacted so strongly to. We do not accept that the opposition on such a basis goes into such a case. Now we hear the case rapporteur trying to talk away from this, but that's what this case has been about, and I'm going to come back to it in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e949	Well, this is probably what Martin Kolberg has to accept — accept that the opposition of Storting is exercising its control role by going in to see how some governments are exercising ownership policy, as defined by the Stortinget — on a government proposal, but by the Stortinget. It must be accepted by the representative of Kolberg as part of the control role. Saying that we have other intentions or that it is a game is cheap political polemics. Kolberg uses it in all matters where he disagrees with the committee – then it's political games. I have learned to live with that, but it does not prevent the control role from being exercised by exercising control in specific individual cases, as in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e956	Both the Centre Party and the Right are very clear about what is inherent in ownership – was at least earlier – namely that ownership confers governing rights. Here we are facing a company – Telenor, for example – where the government, the state, has 53.97 pst. ownership. And then it's used from the representative Foss concepts like 'powerful raw materials' and 'press'. The best characteristic of it is rule technique. It's a well-known rule technique from the representative Foss. What is the question is: would the representative Foss have had similar language to a private majority victory?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e970	No, the Storting has no control task over the exercise of ownership in private enterprises. I also hope that Mr Lundtigen's representative will be pleased with that. If not, there would have been a significant breach of the rules on ownership of which the Centre Party and the Right Traditionally agreed. However, the Share Act sets some conditions and driving rules for conduct. A board of directors shall be appointed to represent all shareholders of a company. Where the State participates in the appointment, it is important that the State has influence over the election of the members of the board. It was just supposed to be missing. But they have to represent all the shareholders, and there are certain provisions in the law that also take into account minority shareholders – i.e. those who own almost 50 pst, but not fully. There are rules that the State must also respect, and it is also part of our control task that the State acts in a way against minority shareholders that does not damage the company's values.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e977	My point is the stock law. My point is that a board of a limited liability company should represent everyone. They're minority shareholders, and they're majority shareholders, and what we're talking about now is a company where the state is a majority shareholder. So the representative Foss and Right here consistently uses terms like ‘makta röhre’ and the state exerts a ‘press’ to get a representation of its values according to the interests of the state. I repeat my question: Is it common for the right party to use similar characteristics for limited liability companies where private owners have a similar position?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e984	I have to say that I don't know, because I've never been in a position where I've been in a control committee for a private company of any importance. So I can't answer Mr Lundtegen's question. But I remember that we are in the National Assembly of the country, which does not have such tasks for private companies. In fact, representing everyone in a company is the most important of the driving rules laid down by the Storting on previous occasions. And I repeat in answer to questions that have been asked earlier, that I believe that the behaviour in these specific cases is not in line with the ownership principles that are laid down. So it's a majority in the committee, but probably a minority in the Stortinget, asking for a review of their process of appointing governors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e993	I just have to take note of the answers that are given here. But it is then in a vacuum that a similar characteristic given by the representative Foss here by the state as a majority shareholder in a limited liability company is something that, for him, is completely foreign to the corresponding private owners of limited liability companies, and it certainly shows which political agenda is really behind this whole case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e998	I'm a little in doubt about where the representative Lundteg will. Does he want the Storting to enter into ownership control in private companies where the State is not involved? In that case, it is a relevant question, but I have never seen it as the central party's policy. But I know that Lundtegen always – or very often at least – has their own opinions. I can hardly answer what I would have done in a hypothetical situation where I was set to control owners other than the state, but it is actually my job to control the state's exercise of ownership policy as a member of the Stortinget. That's what the role is limited to. I do not ignore the fact that there are private owners who have acted both stupid, unwise, clumsy and unprofessional. I do not ignore that, but it is not my job to control as a member of the Norwegian National Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1003	The President will remind the representative and Vice-President Per-Kristian Foss that all speeches must be made through the President. Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg will have another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1008	What's the principle here is that any ownership confers governing rights. Here's a corporation where the state is a partner. It's Telenor we're discussing as an example. The State is a partner with 53.97 p.m., and the State – through its persons – ensures that the representation in governing bodies is in the interests of the State. That's what the representative from the Right characterises as that power stands and that pressure is exerted. That is what I have pointed out as a rule technique in relation to what is and should be in the objective interest of the state, whether the state is represented by today's government or by a government where the Right is a tone-setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1013	No, that's not what's being criticized. Again Lundtigen – I am quite used to it – creates its own reality. We do not criticise the exercise of governance, but the way it is done: the lack of compliance with the rules of the game set by the Storting and the lack of respect for minority shareholders. This is also what has led to something as unusual as the fact that known, prominent – past and present – members of the board and leaders of governments who own the state go out so openly and criticise the exercise of ownership and give what is the majority of the committee quite unreserved support in the criticism we have addressed about lack of professionalism, lack of parallelity and lack of compliance with the rules of governance with which the state is a partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1019	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1022	The Norwegian State has significant interests in Norwegian business: at least 600 billion. kr in companies in which the State is the sole owner or holds a holding. The government manages funds on behalf of the community and has influence over the management of large corporations with thousands of jobs. It is doubtful of great importance that the Storting is interested in and committed to how values are managed. For the Workers' Party, throughout our history, it has been a supporter that the state should have decisive influence over the Community's resources. The State shall be the owner – and an active owner – where necessary and useful. Equally important is that ownership should be controlled so that there can never be any doubt that everything is going right. Therefore, there would be no fundamental opposition from the government parties to opening up proceedings on the ownership exercise of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade as such if there were grounds for doing so. But it is not in this case. This is a case that was opened by the opposition to try to bring the council into disrepute. There is a deep conflict between the government parties on one side and the Right and the Progress Party on the other in the view of state ownership. The parties to the Government strongly disagree with the proposal of the Right and the Progressive Party to sell heavily in state ownership. On the contrary, we believe that state ownership should be maintained and exercised actively. This view has broad support in Norway, so the Right and the Progressive Party do not have popular support for their privatisation proposals. But that is precisely why it is more opportunistic – as we have just seen – for the Right and the Advance Party to attack the exercise of state ownership. If confidence in state ownership is weakened, it could facilitate a privatisation process. It is this game that has taken place in this case. I say, of course, it is absolutely legitimate for the Right and the Progressive Party to be in charge of such a privatisation policy, and we are fighting for it, but the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in the Stortinget should not be the venue for such a political struggle. It is part of the usual political debate, of the various trade unions and of the European Parliament in plenary. The Trade Union Committees also have a customary responsibility to control the political handling of matters in the various departments. The fact that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs travels and deals with a matter such as this one we now have undermines the division of roles that must exist between the Committee on Control and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the other committees of the European Parliament and its work. Therefore, the Government’s parties voted against the consideration of this matter, as it is presented in the Control and Constitutional Committee. How did it all start? On 9 October 2012, the Committee sent a letter to Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade Trond Giske on several issues related to Entra Endom, a state-owned full-time property company. The background was media information about the process of recruiting a new CEO of the company. I say that we were all shocked by the information that the CEO would have a salary of 5.3 million. kr, but we also know that a government council does not negotiate pay to the CEO of companies, nor in the state. But the cause of the opposition's anger was not this, of course. It was that the new CEO had a background in the Workers' Party and was Giske's friend. However, this fell to the ground when it turned out that Giske had declared himself inhabitable because Olsø was his friend, and that the Council of State did not think in any way about it. Despite questions and studies, it turns out that this was absolutely correct and concrete. In parallel with the Entra Eiendom case, attention was paid in the media to the process of electing board members also in two other companies in which the state is the largest owner: Telenor ASA, where the state's holding is 53.97 p.m. and Kongsberg Group ASA, where the State owns 50,001 pst. It is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade that manages the state ownership of both these companies. According to NTB 23 October 2012 ‘Giske demanded last year to have his friend and party colleague Tore O. Sandvik placed on the board of Telenor, but without success’. According to the same NTB message, ‘have pressured the Kongsberg Group Technology Group to give Lo Leader Roar Flåthen space on the board. The board was not on the elections and there were no plans for changes. The case ended with Flöthen getting a newly created position as an alternate member. He thus gets to attend the meetings, but without having the right to vote. The fee is SEK 195 000 per year". In its reply to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Councils of State, among others, made: preparing the processes for the election of members of the governments of state-owned companies and clarifying that board members with broad social experience and political experience from different political parties have also been elected. Despite the well-informed answers, the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided at its meeting on 13 November 2012 to initiate preparations in a separate case for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. There were no indications that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade had gone beyond his powers and his responsibilities as a Council of State. Neither the Entra Eiendom, the Kongsberg Group, nor the Telenor statements were made in the media to the effect that the Council of State had managed the management of the company in breach of good offices or the established frameworks for the state's ownership policy. We can therefore see that the examination of the case and the consultation carried out have fully confirmed that this was a correct conclusion. In the hearings, there are no claims – I repeat: no claims – or information that substantiates the need for such a case in the committee. On the contrary, the hearings confirmed that the State Council had already answered written questions from the Committee. Government parties also opposed the invitation to the electoral committees of the state companies at the hearing. An election committee or a nomination committee of a listed company is one of the company’s organs enshrined in the company’s statutes. The work of an election committee is not part of the Council of State's duties for which he is responsible to the Stortinget. The internal work of the Electoral Committees is therefore not subject to the control of the National Audit Office. The work of an election or nomination committee is characterised by confidential cooperation with other representatives of the shareholder community. This is essential in order to carry out the work. Confidentiality is also necessary regarding the persons being evaluated and discussed in the Committee. A practice in which electoral committees are asked to explain their work in the Grand Duchy violates this confidentiality. If confidentiality practices change in the state-owned companies and thus total confidentiality cannot be guaranteed, it must be expected that many will see it as not desirable to be candidates for the board of directors. This would constitute a particular practice contrary to what is normal for professional corporate governance and could harm the recruitment of corporate governance. It could once again weaken the position of the companies and the value of the companies. Therefore, what really breaks the good governance of state ownership in this case is pushing the electoral committees to outsource their work in an open hearing in the control and constitution committee. A consequence of such a practice, if the State requires transparency in the dialogue between nomination committees and other committees and the State, may be that the State may no longer be able to participate in the committees. It will weaken the possibilities of continuing a serious and professional state ownership management, in line with what is being done today. The election of directors is one of the most important decisions in which an owner of a company is involved. It is therefore essential that the State be able to participate in the forms of work necessary for the proper functioning of nomination committees. It is not appropriate to ensure the state's interests or formally correct that the Storting enters into the election committee's internal discussions in companies in which the State has interests. The hearings showed that none – none – of the so-called electoral committees felt that the state council had broken the principles of good ownership. In addition to a point of view that we have heard a lot about, namely that the members of the board of directors have been late, the members of the electoral committee had nothing to say about the ownership exercise of the Council of State and of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. At the same time, it was stressed that recordings were handled in a good and correct manner by the electoral committees. The current chairman of the nomination committee in Telenor, Anders Kärvestad, said in the hearing: ‘There is nothing in the guidelines or in the ownership notices on deadlines and on when these recordings are due, so there is no concrete guidance for that. The nomination committee in Telenor was of the opinion at the time it arrived late. It wasn't desirable. But we must also stress that we believe that we managed the situation correctly." Former Chairman of the nomination committee in Telenor, Jan Erik Korsjön, said: "What has come up here is that this recording of names came very late. But as we have said, we have to accept that. As it has also been said, I believe that we managed it in a good way." Member of the Election Committee of Kongsberg, Alexandra Morris, commented at the hearing on the state's input to the board member as follows: ‘This is not unusual for a large owner. It is common for a large owner to express opinions about members of the board. That was the time that was a little unfortunate." Morris also said: "We had several choices, as I said in the beginning. But we came up with a good solution for the company. Everyone knows the state has a majority. But I felt no pressure. I just felt that this was a situation, and here we had to find a good solution, which also safeguarded everyone's interests." The chairman of the election committee in Kongsberg, Sverre Valvik, said: ‘The whole background is, of course, that we got a proposal on the table that Roar Flöthen should be elected as a board member. We found it difficult to meet, but came up with a compromise. The background to this is that we wanted to take into account the wishes of all shareholders, including the state, in this context, and then we found that, in addition to the competences of the board from the past, the competence of the fleet would contribute positively." In other words, we can state that the solution of choosing Roar Flåthen as a permanent alternate member of the Governing Board in Kongsberg, with normal governing fees, was not a proposal from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but a compromise proposed by the Election Committee. The chairman of the election committee at Kongsberg said in the hearing: ‘We did not follow the Ministry’s input, because it was choosing Flöthen as a member of the Management Board.’ On questions from the representative, Mr Becquerad, about the remuneration of this alternate, a decision was made by the election committee alone, or a response from the largest shareholder, Mr Valvik replied: ‘No, it was the Election Committee.’ Following the proceedings of the Committee and a full day’s hearing, no breach of the State’s guidelines on ownership management was detected. The only negative remark that remains is that on two occasions, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has been recording candidates a little late. But neither is this a breach of the guidelines. In addition, it appeared that both electoral committees dealt with the proposals in a professional way and arrived at a unanimous position. It is also appropriate to mention in this context that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Industry at the hearing had very good opportunities for the exercise of the country’s ownership management. Former president of the NHO and current director of Telenor, Svein Aaser, said: ‘When it comes to the relationship with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in Oslo, my view is that they exercise ownership in a very professional way, in line with the ownership environments I otherwise know.’ That's what Aaser said. Former Right-State Council Børge Burnde said: «I experience that the communication between the owner and the company has been after the book and correctly.» He also said, «When I then mention the Department, it also implies a characteristic of the Constitutional Council of State, and we have experienced a professional follow-up of Mesta as a group.» This is what happened at the hearing. This is what has been said by those who have been asked to come and speak to the Storting on the relationship between these companies, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Constitutional Council of State in the specific contexts that they were asked for. It is also true that in this case we have unfortunately experienced that representatives of the opposition parties in various contexts have promoted strong claims and accusations. I didn't get to that point in the line change – I hope we get the opportunity to get back to it during the debate. At Erna Solberg, Højre’s leader and parliamentary leader, Siv Jensen, Chairman and parliamentary leader of the Progress Party and Per Sandberg, Vice-Chair of the Progress Party and Head of the Justice Committee, the Right and Advance Party has used words such as ‘shaking’, ‘mafia states’ and ‘corruption’. What I am going to say, I am asking the Stortinget to bear in mind, namely: these claims were not tried to prove either through the examination of the committee or in the verification hearing. This was not asked at all – not one question, not one attempt to clarify whether it was really a basis for claiming from the leader of the largest opposition party on Stortinget that there were corruption-like conditions – not one thing in connection with this. There was no information either, of course, that supported this in any way. I must therefore simply note, unfortunately – and I am sorry to say now – that in this case the Right Party and the Advance Party have adopted a form of work in which serious accusations are first promoted in the media, with demands for treatment in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, but without following up these accusations in the formal control work. Such a working method further reinforces the impression that the Right Party and the Progress Party in this case are running a negative political campaign, and not, as the rapporteur tries to claim, a real control work. I believe that what I have said and covered in this post shows it very clearly. I also believe that, through the change of lines that we had just before I went to the interlocutory here, the case rapporteur made it clear with all the words, expressions and approaches that he had in his post here today. The last thing I want to say – in conclusion – is that I want to stress that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should not be abused. The control function of the Committee is of great importance. We agree on that, and the authority and seriousness of the committee should therefore not be discredited. The Committee's opinion does not tolerate many things like this until it also affects the credibility of the Committee and the weights of the major and serious control matters of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1133	During my 16 years at Stortinget, I do not remember seeing such comments made by the government parties in this matter, which also appeared in the post. I can't escape the feeling that here we have an example of what I would call classical political rhetoric. If you have a weak case, talk loudly, and talk for a long time – and like to talk about something other than what the case is actually about. The representative of Kolberg is an expert in this field. My question to him is: If he had been an opposition politician and the media had filed allegations that a nutritionist council from the Right or the Advance Party had contributed to the fact that an NHO chief had received a well-paid board of directors on a failed basis, or a local politician and a friend of the Council of State were attempted to be placed in a corporate board, would he not respond – with his hand on the heart? Would he claim that he would not address this matter in the control committee and not follow it to the bottom?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1140	The first part of Knudsen's posts is added, because it is a common feature of the right-wing parties in terms of the representatives of the Workers' Party. I'll put it away. The answer to the second is, if there's a basis for criticizing things, we would be involved. The representative Knudsen and I have been sitting together in the control committee for almost four years. He knows very well that the government parties, also represented by me, have been responsible for all the control matters that have really been the basis for going into. It is very clear that this was not the case in this case. In addition, I would like to add: we in the Workers' Party have never criticised the right parties for appointing political representatives on boards when we have thought that there has been a real basis for this. The right hand parts are the ones that run this against the Working Party. That's what this is an example of; it's not the opposite. If we had done that, we would have had a lot to say for many years. We have not done so, and the reason for this is that we have considered that the right of governance is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1147	Now this is not unknown to the Council of State Guessing when he was Minister of Culture, or for a number of workers' party people located around in different councils and selections, and it was significantly mentioned in Today's Business. There can then be a legitimate suspicion that something similar happens when you are a nutritionist. How is it to know whether there is actually something in these statements that has been made in the media before a thorough review has been carried out in the committee, with thorough hearings, and before calling all the people who should be able to tell us something about the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1152	This line shows the whole matter in a nutshell. The representative completely reveals to the whole Storting what is his purpose, namely to show that it is the Council of State who appoints people that he does not have coverage for appointment. What concrete evidence is there of this? Where is the documentation located? I do not understand why it was not included in the setting, if there was really reason to claim it. The thing is, our government, like previous governments, appoints representatives that we think should sit on these boards. It is done after a wise and reasonable assessment. There are no more party political representatives in the regimes now than it was under the previous bourgeois government – on the contrary – without us criticising it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1159	I just have to find out that the representative Kolberg and I are on a little different planets in this matter. I'll come back to that in my post. I noticed that the definition of a worthy control case is when the Workers' Party votes for it to be opened. There is also a slightly interesting perspective on the control perspective, which the representative Kolberg is otherwise very concerned about, and which he is helping in this matter to undermine, in my opinion. I'm going to try to be factual in the line and try to stick to that matter, because I believe that the representative Kolberg used the brother part of his post to talk about something that is not about. In this context, the State has its own representative in the Telenor electoral committee. There is a defined process for how the call is to be displayed, based on a certain number of criteria and candidates being recorded, 60-70 in the number. What is the reason why the representative of Kolberg believes it is right that the state should have its own shortcut behind the suspension, which other shareholders have been deprived of? Why is there a right way to run a big company?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1168	It's quite right, as the representative Anundsen says, that we're on two different planets. That's absolutely correct, because we have a completely different, completely different, view of the content of ownership exercise. It's quite obvious, and it really characterizes this debate in a fundamental way. I believe that the state as a large owner has the right to have a very clear opinion about who it is that will represent them in the boards, and it is not such that at any point in the handling of this matter it has come to light that it has violated neither the law nor the processes. They've talked about it coming a little late on two occasions, but it doesn't trigger this political process. That's my answer to this. I just feel again that there is a very clear evidence that that is what the opposition parties have been doing all along, namely a political process against the Council of State Giske, but that is to hit the political positions of the Norwegian Labour Party in terms of ownership management. It's, as I said, an honest thing, but it doesn't belong in the control committee, and it should really be up to the committee's head, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1175	If it really is in the Labour Party's ownership policy that processes in large, important national companies should be short-circuited, we are looking to hit it, because it is contrary to what this accumulation has unanimously set as a premise for how to exercise ownership. It's supposed to be professional, and it's not professional to deal with the case the way the Labour Party government has done. The representative Kolberg says that there is no one who has criticized the process. It's directly wrong. If the representative of Kolberg reads through the minutes of the hearing he himself was present, there is strong criticism of the process, because they did not take advantage of the opportunity to enter an early stage in the work of the Electoral Committee, so that the candidates the department intended to assess would have received the same assessment as all the other candidates. That's the problem with this case regarding Telenor. You short-circuit the process, you don't participate in the process, you run clean and cut the use of power after the process is actually finished. That's what I asked Kolberg, why should it be like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1182	What is the point of Telenor – to stick to it – is that the member to whom the case-rapporteur also referred in his speech was treated in the same way as everyone else when the proposal from the Council of State had arrived. He was interviewed, he was ‘attended’, and he was accepted by the election committee. That was the government's wish, but it was also the wish of the election committee. The hearing did not constitute a conflict between the Council of State and the Electoral Committee at this point. In addition, I would say that it was not the representative of Anundsen who said, but it was the next representative who said, namely, the representative of Foss, in the public change of words with me, that it was probably only Gisk who could come up with such a proposal for a member of the electoral committee, namely Bakke – it was only Gisk that could come up with. Then the so-called political cat is out of the bag. I do not accept these premises, and I do not accept the legal approach to these political issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1188	The representative Martin Kolberg has his own, pompous way of making things. It's got to be up to him. But I ask that he remove the concepts a little, because criticism of the government is actually not unusual. It's a common part of a democracy. But in Martin Kolberg's words, it sounds like it's to hit the Workers' Party – as if it were a state insult to its own elevated party. A party of government and a council of states formed by the Workers' Party must, like other parties, tolerate criticism. Then Martin Kolberg says that he accepts the control task of Storting, but only when there are important issues – when matters are important enough. Who's gonna control it, then? Yes, the government party! It's only when the government party says it's important enough, that it's worth checking. That kind of rhetoric is really a threat to the independence of the Storting, and I think you might be wise to put aside some pompousness when you represent the government. There are times and days for pompousness – both May 1st and 17th – but precisely in a criticism of Stortingen’s control tasks it does not belong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1195	I fall for the temptation to say – I kept saying that I should try not to fall for the temptation – in terms of the characteristic ‘pompous’ and the representative Foss: I don’t want to say that he’s pompous, but he’s usually quite intrigued, and he was, of course, now too. He's even over that, and he was now too. What he does not like, of course, is that the post he made as rapporteur of the case, well shows that he had no case. That's now he's trying to make it a different matter than what was the starting point. The right manager said that all the cards had to be on the table here, and Giske had to explain to the Storting why he had proposed Sandvik. But he must not explain why he had proposed Børge Burnde or other representatives with a clear NHO background and a Right-Background appointed by the governments of our government. He can't explain that. [[The President clubs.]] But Sandvik has to explain. So with pompousness, representative Foss, I think we should split up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1204	I would ask the representatives to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1207	To accuse the opposition leader Erna Solberg of asking that all cards be put on the table, is probably a little unnecessary. I actually thought it was the big thing to ask the council to put the cards on the table and go through a verification hearing. No, there is a reason why I actually have to talk about something other than the matter, and that is that most of Martin Kolberg's articles were not about checking the case. He stated that the following had said the following: he first quoted Erna Solberg, then Siv Jensen, and then he uses the expression that it is claimed that this matter has been corrupt or corruption-like. There are expressions that Erna Solberg has never used in this matter. But he still performs on direct television to repeat it, so he assigns a party leader to the opposition statements she has never made. I ask him again to confirm that this kind of quote is half-jux, because it has never been said by the representative of Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1214	I quote Erna Solberg quite correctly when she says that this has been shocking, and that all the cards must be on the table. Then all the cards came on the table, and then there was no case. Then they try to make a case afterwards by twisting what was the premise that they even brought up the matter. That's the political theater we're witnessing. That's what I'm rejecting. That's why I have an active body language in this case, also against colleagues I represent, because it's not that you can continue on this. I reject the consistent attacks by the right-wing parties on the ownership of the Workers' Party in state companies. It is, as I have said, a disguised attack on the reality of the matter, namely that they do not want the state to own so much. They want it on private hands. That's what's behind the whole thing, and that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1221	When Martin Kolberg continues to claim that the matter is about something other than what is in the position, it is possible to attack the committee. But that's a very thin foundation. In fact, I fully agree with Mr Kolberg that the debate on state ownership, that is, whether the state should own and possibly how much, does not belong in the control committee. That is not what we have examined, nor does it say a word about it in the setting. On the other hand, the representatives of the government parties have surprisingly raised a weak criticism – or admonition – of the level of pay in state companies against the state councils. It was not part of what was the heading when the inspection work started, but nevertheless it has been traveled and included in the setting. No, you can attack the committee too much, but attacking it for something it hasn't controlled, i.e. state ownership, might be a little bit sideways.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1228	Now I think it's getting kind of neat about this, because now I'm beginning to hear that the representative Foss is starting to agree with me a little. There were some things that didn't belong in the committee. Then it starts to become a little bit neat about this. That's good. But what was nevertheless the truth was that the starting point for this was what I said, the party nominations, the claim that it's shocking, that it's corruption, that it's unacceptable conditions, and that that was what was the engine in that opposition started this, there's no doubt about it. That's what they're trying to talk away from in today's debate. But I don't believe it at all, and I don't think anyone else does either. I've heard too much about this before this debate started, and that's why I'm saying what I'm saying: it stands, and it's going to stand in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1235	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1238	With the recently concluded line chord exchange in memory, it is difficult when Kolberg says that this is a political theater, not to fall for the temptation to say that in that case it must be with Martin Kolberg as the theater director. There are two things I'd like to say before I go to the post itself, and it's that Kolberg in his reply said to me that the person that the department recorded was going through the same selection process as the other 60-70 in Telenor who was in charge of a steering position. It's directly wrong. He did not conduct the same quality studies, did not conduct an interview with the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and thus did not go through the normal procedure in which directors are assessed against each other in relation to their competence, in order to ensure a composite board that is optimal for the company’s needs. So it's directly wrong when Kolberg says he went through the same procedures and selection criteria as everyone else. The second is this eternal focus of Martin Kolberg on the fact that this is really something quite different from what the matter is about, which is what you think about state ownership. The only one talking about it is Martin Kolberg. There is no one in the opposition who has discussed it at all. It is Martin Kolberg who is trying to get this discussion to be about something other than what is critical – and it is critical. Then I would like to thank the case rapporteur for having carried out a good and tidy process in a matter that has created more bridesmaids in our committee than we are used to. I think his post reflected the opposition parties, representing a majority in our committee, in a tidy and good way, and I agree with the assessments he gave there. There may be some repetitions in this article. I think that might be a good refreshment after the lively line change we've got behind us. The starting point of the case is a series of media suggestions related to the ownership exercise of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It has become something special, because the government parties have brought out the big defense cannons in an attempt to protect the Council of State Giske. I therefore think that there is a basis for saying a little about the framework of the activities of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the background for opening up matters in our committee, and what makes this matter a little special. The starting point for this matter is that the Committee would examine whether the exercise of ownership by the State Council is within the premises of the Stortinge, inter alia. through the processing of the ownership message. The fact that the Storting can control the state's ownership exercise is questionable. They even process their own annual report from the National Audit Office on similar issues each year. The extent to which parliamentary control can go is initially up to the Committee to evaluate itself. However, it is clear that control extends at least as far as the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State. So in this case, there's no doubt that the ownership exercise in NHD is clear within that framework. Such ownership can hardly be controlled in any way other than what we have done here, by looking at practical examples of that ownership exercise. In the vote, the government parties wrote that there was no indication that the Council of State had ‘exceeded its powers’ at the time the committee opened proceedings. Martin Kolberg was also interested in it in his article instead. It's kind of a weird formulation. There were three things that were mentioned in the media, where government council Giske's ownership exercise was discussed. One was the allegation that Gishe had made sure that a alleged friend of himself would be placed on the board of directors of Telenor, after the election committee had finished its work. It was also claimed that he was not found qualified, after which the Council of State would have allegedly ensured the insertion of another person who was finally assessed as competent. The criticism was that the Council of State short-circuited the process of the company and called for changes to the Board of Directors in contravention of the initial suspension of the Electoral Committee, drawn up over several months, with thorough work and consideration of several dozen current candidates. It was also claimed that the Council of State had made sure that the LO leader was satisfied with a position in the board of the Kongsberg Group, without the responsibility of the board, but with compensation as a member of the board. It should have happened for a year when the board was not in elections. Furthermore, it was claimed that the Council of State could contribute to the fact that the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and a member of the board of Entra had been subjected to a coup with the aim of employing a alleged friend of the Council of State Giske as CEO of the company, without an ordinary procedure. The Council of State was incapacitated in all respects concerning him, but did not report this to the Governing Board of Entra until August. Only after the alleged coup trial was the Council of State appointed in Giske's place, despite the fact that Giske should have known about this conflict in the board since May. These three cases gave the impression of an unprofessional and random ownership exercise in large important companies where the State is a whole or a partner. It gave the impression of a large owner running over other owners and acting unprofessionally. State Council Geske rejected answering questions about this, as he would not deal with ‘anonymous claims’. In the view of the Progress Party, it would be a failure for the Control and Constitutional Committee not to consider whether these claims were true or not. It is in our opinion more than indications that something could be wrong. In the setting, the government parties also write: ‘It is very unusual for the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to open proceedings on the basis of unconfirmed statements made in the media.’;» [[...]] It's directly wrong. Seven of the nine self-initiated control cases that we have dealt with in this Control and Constitutional Committee are the direct result of a possible unconfirmed look-up in the media. So it's the general rule, not the exception, that control matters are opened on the basis of media reviews. With some wonder I have registered that the Workers' Party believes that this control matter is really about politics, and not about control. From the side of the opposition parties, we have been quite unambiguous in dealing with this matter as a matter of control, the purpose of which is to find out whether the Storting's assumptions are met or not. It is sad that the Workers' Party is trying to create a political game about a matter that is so obviously a matter of control. Then we'd like to disagree on what kind of findings have been made and what conclusions to draw. But to operate that form of avoidance – and I want to use the term ‘mist’ – that the Workers’ Party has, in my opinion, operated in this case, does not serve the control function of Stortinget. It undermines the important function of the Committee. During the verification consultation, the media’s presentation of the three cases was largely confirmed. The course of events was frightening like what the media had referred to. In the Telenor case, the Council of State, Gishe, had asked the Election Committee to appoint a member of its own board of directors. In addition, the Council of State insisted on a new criterion for the selection and selection of members of the Governing Board. However, the Electoral Committee refused to suspend the proposal of the relevant State Council because he did not have the appropriate competence required by Telenor. Then the State Council asked the Committee to appoint another from its ranks. The election committee bowed down and did as the state council said. It is difficult to see such an instruction from the clearly largest owner as something other than a clear pressure. At the same time, the person who was hired avoided the thorough process that other elected board representatives had to undergo, including an interview with the chairman of the board, whom I was in place. It is no longer sufficient to be qualified to sit on such a board. It is crucial whether the competence and experience of the candidate meet a defined need in the work of the Governing Board and whether he is able to make a positive difference in the work of the Governing Board. So the election committee spent 8 months and 23 meetings finding an optimal composition for Telenor, and then being tested by the Council of State. I have seen that the Council of State has reacted both times when I mentioned that the person who was picked out was avoiding an interview with the director. The reason I point out this is that it became clear in the verification hearing that it was common practice in Telenor that those who were assessed as current board candidates also had a conversation with the board manager before they were cancelled. So it's one of the processes that he didn't carry out. It is unlikely that it is in the interests of the company to risk this kind of short-term process when selecting the company's senior management. The Council of State could make the recordings at the beginning of the process, with the Ministry represented in the Election Committee. In this context, I would like to refer to a very good chronicle in the Evening Post on 22 February, in which several central board representatives in different state companies give their views as to whether what I perceive is the importance of the State not overruning the electoral committees' processes, but rather contributing along the way in line with the assumptions. That's what the Telenor thing is about, not all this other pipe. In the case of the Kongsberg Group, the media production was also confirmed in the verification hearing. The Electoral Committee had no intention of replacing members of the Governing Board. There was an interval time, and no one had reported any desire to leave. The Council of State was represented in the Election Committee with representatives from the Ministry. Then it was demanded by the Council of State Giske that LO leader Roar Flöthen be appointed as a member of the board of directors of the company. The Electoral Committee opposed that. In a kind of dialogue, a compromise was reached in which Flöthen was appointed as an alternate, but with full governing compensation. This is a structure which neither the members of the Electoral Committee nor the State Council know whether it is used in other companies. As a general rule, directors are also paid for the risks they have as members of the Management Board, as well as for the work they do. An alternate does not have such a board of directors. The construction must therefore be considered to be very unnatural. The head of the election committee in the Kongsberg Group was clear that the solution that was chosen was not favourable, but that the company could live with it. In the Telenor and Kongsberg Group cases, the State that owns has overrun other owners, short-term internal processes and called for changes that the Company's Election Committee initially opposed. It builds up under the image of a non-professional ownership exercise. Director Bente Landsnes said to TV 2 that the government's ownership exercise could damage the value of Norwegian companies in the wake of these revelations. Trust in being a co-participant with the state of these major Norwegian companies is weakened, she told, after talking to several concerned foreign investors about what they perceived as unyielding Norwegian state behaviour. The Entra case differs from the other two things we've dealt with, because Entra is a whole-time state company, and the state then, of course, has sole responsibility for the appointment of the board. It usually happens, as I understand it, in dialogue between the board and the owner, but the owner of course has full authority over the selection of the board. The issue in the Entra case is also different. There is the question, as the Progress Party sees, whether the Council of State Gish acted neatly as the owner when the board was to appoint a new Executive Director, where one of the obvious candidates for the position was a close friend of the Council of State. Geske joined inhabil in April 2012 after advice from the Law Department, which is good. He then failed to inform the company of his incapacity. First, in a letter dated 17 August, the company was made aware of the inconsistency of the Council of State in all matters related to the appointment of the Executive Director. Meanwhile, the Directors of Entra had dialogue with an intruder owner about the recruitment process on at least two occasions. Therefore, it is not right when Kolberg claims that the owner was not involved in that period. The owner was also familiar with the major problems of the board through briefing from former director Grace Reksten Skaugen and chairperson Siri Hatlen. The owner was aware that the conflict was also about the appointment of the new CEO. The Council of State Gish explained that there was no need to appoint the Council of State, because this was a decision to be taken by the Board of Directors. However, both the former and the current Chairperson believe that it is obvious that the owner should be involved before the appointment of the Executive Director, not to change the responsibility for the addition, but to ensure that a manager who does not wish to oppose it, and to ensure that the Management Board is aware of all relevant information prior to the addition. This means that Gishe must have known that it was relevant to dialogue between the board and the owner before the appointment of the new managing director, and the new state council should have been appointed at the time Gishe declared to be involved. The absence of the Council of State also deprived the board of Entra of the possibility of dialogue with the owner after 17 August on a very demanding process, in a board that was divided and in full conflict. It's not a professional ownership exercise. I would like to comment so briefly on the second Telenor case that is affected in the setting. The background is Telenor's decision to contribute to the sale of TV 2. The Storting has previously received a statement from the Council of State on this matter, and many probably remember the claims about SMSes from a postgame at Lorry. That matter was also dealt with by the Committee in the context of the examination and audit of the annual audit of the Riksrevision. In retrospect, however, the chairman of Telenor, Harald Norvik, was cast as chairman. He even said in the verification hearing on this matter that there was a ‘direct connection’ between his handling of the TV 2 case and his departure as director. I would also quote directly from some of Norvik's statements about this: ‘I myself have been under the untimely pressure of the Council of State, and it is well known to the Committee, for it has dealt with it in the past. It was a pressure to make a different decision from what the board had decided to make, a decision that the board itself is responsible for making according to the government's governance principles. It's untimely pressure. It's happened. It may happen again, and it is a matter that needs to be discussed in public because it violates the country's ownership principles.» In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is the way to exercise ownership on a problematic basis. As the largest owner, the state has almost all the power in the company. That power is to exercise with caution, and it does not serve the state ownership to weaken governments of large state-owned shared companies by saying that either you do as the council says, or you have fired. The responsibility of the Management Board is to safeguard the interests of the company; the responsibility of the State is to build up the values of the community. This form of ownership exercise gives the opposite as a result. I also want to see how the Workers' Party handles control cases where their own government councils are under pressure. I have registered that there is a significant discrimination on the part of the Workers' Party in matters where the workers' party councils are in the search for any infringement, such as in this case, and when the State councils of the Socialist Left Party or the Central Party have the same focus on themselves: In the case of illegal party support for the Centre Party, the Workers' Party was committed to obtaining facts and cleaning up. That was strong and unifying criticism from the Committee. In the control case of the grant schemes, it was then the incoming SV manager and government councillor, Audun Lysbakken, who almost said he was sacrificed and had to leave. It was a collection and, on the one hand, a strong criticism from the committee in the vote. In the control case of the stability of the Støre Minister of Foreign Affairs in the allocation of funds to a foundation initiated by a friend of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Workers' Party went completely into the defence position, believing that everything was in the best order, and that the opposition was driving political games. We see the same thing in this case. The pattern is not completely unambiguous, but nevertheless clear. It will be very good in this position and the debate here today. Fortunately, everyone with access to the Internet can read what was said in the hearing and assess the media review of this matter. In the long run, I think the Labour Party's work on control will be better off if someone doesn't try to create a different reality and a different course of events than what you can easily read to through open sources. This is a well-meaning advice that I suppose will not be followed. Since the Workers' Party has tried to get this case to deal with different views of state ownership in general, I would point out that the Progress Party is not against state ownership. We believe, however, that one must have a conscious relationship with what kind of company the state should own, and that the state acts as a clean and professional owner of the companies that are still to be owned. Constructing a political debate on state ownership in this matter is entirely on the sidelines and is being incorporated into the series of attempts to misrepresent the Workers' Party. Them about it! Politicians live by trust. It also makes big companies. As the owner, the state must help build and strengthen the trust in the companies we own in whole or in part, not the opposite. That is why it is necessary and important that the rapporteur address the proposal for a decision of an overall opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1322	It's going to be line change. The first representative is Martin Kolberg, then the representative Jette F. Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1328	Again we heard an article that gave the impression that this matter has been something quite different from what was the starting point. I would like to remind the representative Anundsen of what his own leader said about the appointment of Roar Flöthen: What has happened here is that the Workers' Party has given Roar Flöthen a fee of NOK 195 000 per year. «This suspiciously reminds us of corruption and bribery.» It is serious to say, of course, and to show the nature of this matter. The announcement did not affect this, of course. He just accuses me of talking about something other than what the matter is about. It's a well-known technique from the Progress Party. In other words, does Anundsen stand behind Siv Jensen's characteristics?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1337	I think Kolberg may have misunderstood what this matter is all about, and how a matter in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs becomes, and how we work on it. It amazes me a lot. What is the public debate is part of the public debate. These are not necessarily the issues that we agree on in the Committee. When I talk about what this matter has been about, it is from the time that the inspection and inspection committee has started the matter, that the matter has been opened, and the information that has come. Then, in the public vocabulary, there are claims about both the one and the other, and in a political illustration of how to look at those kind of appointments, it is not irrelevant to draw comparisons of the kind my party leader has done, rather the opposite. But I make very much aware that corruption is a criminal law concept. She didn't say it was. She has characterized this with an image to show how some connections can appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1344	The representative, Mr Kolberg, is given the floor for a further reply before the representative, Mr Jette F. Christensen, receives the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1347	I am very much in doubt if it was a yes or a no. I think it was an attempt to say both. It's also very typical for this case, where you try to talk out both of the political mouths at the same time, both to attack the ownership exercise of the Norwegian Labour Party, thereby weakening it and suspecting it, and at the same time relying on legal arguments for what is the process in the committee. If it had been quite a matter of fact, this would have been followed in the committee when the accusations were so serious. There is no difference between what is made by accusations outside the main hall and in it when we talk about the political conversation in Norway. That's the first time in a long time I've heard. Therefore, it is necessary to know, once again, whether the chairman of the committee is behind these characteristics, or whether he does not. It has to be clear to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1352	If there had been a claim of corruption, I wouldn't stand behind that kind of statement, because it's a criminal case, and then you'd evaluate national law in the kind of case that we have here. We have not considered that to be the case. I think that is a relatively clear answer. But I also find it strange that Martin Kolberg is going so high on the track to defend what he calls the Workers' Party's ownership exercise, and in that way he believes that there should be shortcuts into processes where Norwegian interests are speaking. Nor did he last bother to answer the question I had about why he believes that there should be such shortcuts for the state into public companies that depend on international trust, show that the arrogance he claims others have, he is well able to highlight himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1359	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1364	The President has on a few occasions introduced the representative Jette F. Christensen as the next representative, and she will have occasion now. If the representative of Kolberg wants further lines, we'll get back to that. That's an opportunity to draw multiple lines. There is also an opportunity for representatives to draw several lines from the square if they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1367	When one hears the representative Anders Anundsen talking about Roar Flåthen, it's as if Flåthen has never been within the Kongsberg Group before he became an alternate. He started working as a blacksmith and has for years been a trusted man. After his seat on the board, he was removed by the then Minister of Economic Affairs Gabrielsen. And so he was proposed again to the board by the current Minister of Industry Trond Giske. You were there at the hearing. You wouldn't quite answer the question of Kolberg instead, so maybe I can draw out another quote from a party colleague of yours, that's your vice-leader, who says this is the nearest one that comes to the Mafia business in Norway. Do you think that's a covering description of what we got to the right of the Roar Flåthen's board of directors?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1374	The President will have to comment that it is nice that there is such a pleasant tone between the representatives that they refer to each other as 'you', but in the main hall all must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1377	I did not talk much about Flåthen in my post at all, because I am not in doubt that he has the competence that is relevant to the board of the Kongsberg Group. What I talked about in my post was the process of appointment, in a structure that neither the Council of State nor any other bystander who was asked about it, had some knowledge of in other companies. That is what this matter is about, not the competence of the fleet, nor really the competence of the other members, whom the NHD has insisted on. The point is that they short-circuit the processes and put in their desires so late that it is completely impossible to assess them in a relevant way. So they did this with Fleethen in an intermediate tunnel, as it wasn't time to choose a controller at all. I see that it's a fun exercise to make me say whether I'm behind it or it's statements. I don't think it's that interesting. I think it's much more important that we take the time to work on the matter we actually have here, and then the public word change is what the public word change is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1384	The representative Christensen is given the opportunity to repeat one more line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1388	Now Anundsen has been in a lot of other matters in his article, so it is clearly not just this matter we are talking about today. I'm forced to repeat my question, because it's important. When my colleagues here at Stortinget say things in the press, I see it as an article in the debate and something they and the party they mean. I'm taking them seriously. That's why I'm forced to repeat my question to Anundsen: Do you and the Progress Party mean that playing in Fleethen actually was the closest one to the Mafia business in Norway? Can you give me a definition of what mafia activity is really for?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1395	No, I can't give such a definition, but maybe the representative can anundise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1398	Yes, President, but I wonder if you should try anyway. Nor do I think there is a particularly important question in the matter we are dealing with, because the characteristic of mafia activities did not come on the basis of the fact that names were recorded. It's a perfectly legitimate right that the owner has at any time to record his name. The challenge here is to cut short the processes the company has and do what you want, contrary to the interests of the other shareholders. The Election Committee of the Kongsberg Group was quite clear in the hearing that they would never do anything similar if it were another of the owners of the Kongsberg Group who had approached them in that way. This means that the state uses the power position they have — and they are in a special position in terms of ownership of those companies — in a way that does not strengthen the company. Professional ownership is about securing the values that we jointly own. It is the values of taxpayers to be handled and the weakening of trust in those companies is serious. That's what this is all about. Using linguistic images in the public space to explain how you look at that way of handling, I can't stand to criticise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1405	Then we'll get rid of the representative, Kolberg, as promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1408	What Stortinget hears is a chairperson of the Control Committee who will not decide on the political change of words relating to the matter which he himself has been an eager initiator to deal with in the Committee. That's what we're hearing. There's no more talking about it. We know what they've said. They have tried to make political play of this, and central trust leaders in the Progress Party are trying to stamp the Workers' Party and its government councils in the most serious political way. But he won't confirm it or cancel it, and we'll see what it's all about. There's that side of the case. My last seconds I use to mention Hallvard Hill, on which the representative spent time. He was interviewed – not by the Chairman, but by the Election Committee – in a thorough manner. Does Anundsen have any knowledge of how the Electoral Committee behaved towards the other members elected to the Telenor Board?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1415	I do not know the internal processes of the election committee of the Telenor Board, and I will not. The difference is that Bakke’s competence was not assessed as a competitor and a complementary competence between the 60–70 candidates initially assessed. Telenor had the practice — and that’s a good practice — that the director had conversations with those who were relevant to the board of directors at the front of the setting. It didn't happen with Hallvard Bakke. As far as the rest is concerned, I'm not taking a position on the political change of words, it's deaf. I am definitely taking a position on the political change of words. I just said that I can't see any problems trying to visualize a vision, when you see that kind of appointment happening in public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1422	The representative of Kolberg shall be given an additional line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1425	After the last thing that was said, I guess I have to straighten myself out on that point. It appears then that the head of the control committee has supported the fact that these are anti-corruption and mafia activities. That's what's in the last thing that was said, and then I'll straighten myself out at that point and I'll hear what's being said here. Then really the political cat is out of the bag for the longest, because then we know what this really is about; an attempt at political stigmatisation of a council of states and a political ownership exercise that no representatives, I repeat; no representatives of those who were called to the hearing, thought was contrary to the guidelines of the Stortinge, as they have been adopted. It has not been proved, and therefore it is not stated in the setting or in the comments, because if it had been the case, I am absolutely sure that it had been expressed in the proposal for a decision that has been raised by the opposition. It doesn't, because they don't have a cover for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1430	The cat 1 and the cat 2 have probably come out of the bag many times. We have also heard it in the public vocabulary, but I cannot quite see that it is very relevant. What I have said, and what I mean, is that we have to deal with the matter of control. Martin Kolberg has not made any attempt to do so today. He tries to get the case to focus on absolutely everything else that has nothing to do with the inspection case. In the control case, we have completely defined questions and issues, which have been the subject of a verification hearing, and which we have been given an answer to. Everything that was asked, and all the answers in the verification hearing, are publicly available. I think it gives a completely fundamentally different picture of reality than the representative of Kolberg is now trying to present it as. There will be repetition and repetition in a mixture of what has been said in the public vocabulary, and what the control case has been about. I don't have any problems with people looking at this from the outside and reading the media stories about this, trying to figure out how bad they think this is, using pictures. We use different words, so do Kolberg and Stoltenberg. But trying to visualize a problem seems to me to be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1435	Of course, it's okay to use images, but this is about the image describing the task. If one thing is clear, none of the two images used are correct. What's happened is not mafia activity; it doesn't look like mafia activity or corruption. This is about recordings given to a committee. The only thing that's pointed out is that some of them probably came a little late. Can't the representative Anundsen really say that he might think that his party colleagues went a bit far in trying to paint an image of a slightly different reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1442	I wish that the representative Christensen had got his own council to look a little bit closer to the business he's done in the three cases, and perhaps been something more humble in his approach than what he's chosen to be. Humility is a virtue that we all might want to take with us more than what we do. That call is a good call for more than me and my party colleagues. I'm a little surprised that the representative Christensen adopts the reality of Martin Kolberg. She herself was present at the hearing and brought with her everything that was said, and I think – if you add the goodwill in this case – that you see that the professional ownership management of the state has failed in the three cases. It believes that there is a clear and consistent opposition. A little more humility on the part of the government parties might also have been in place, so that we could move on and learn from this matter, which, in my opinion, clearly shows that the state in the three cases has not been sufficiently professional and at the break of the Storting's prerequisites for ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1450	I am a member of the same party as Martin Kolberg, sitting in the same committee as Martin Kolberg, and was in the same hearing as Martin Kolberg. Not to see the same reality as he was then, it's a pretty difficult exercise, and I think it's unlikely that the opposition can do it. But it's obvious that it's not that easy for them either, when they have to start drawing images of things that don't belong at home in the debate about this or in Norway. So I have to try to ask for the last time: in the Labour Party, it's like we're saying things, and then I'm assuming that one means the same thing. Is it such that one in the Progress Party does not really share the view on this matter, that the representative Anundsen means anything other than his next leader and leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1455	I can't quite understand that the representative Christensen can get it out of this line change. I guess that's the opposite I've been saying. What's good about the modern technological world we live in is that anyone can now go in and look at these control hearings, and get their own picture of reality, and they can read everything that was said, and get their own picture of reality. So rather, Christensen and I disagree on what we saw from this hearing. I understand that these are very different things. What I've said is that I don't have any problems with using strong images when you see examples like this. It is not entirely remote to say that it may be a motive that a LO leader who administers a system that gives millions of dollars to the Labour Party election campaign is placed in a board of directors of a company and receives compensation for it. It's not quite unnatural to try to visualize it for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1464	Since we have free debate, it also means that there is unlimited access to lines. This does not mean that one can expect the word word change to last until the replicators agree, but there is nevertheless an opportunity for one more line from the representative Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1467	Thank you! This means that even after the representative Anundsen has been in the loop, he thinks it is possible to describe this as a corruption-like condition and a mafia activity. Then I can recommend that you get the definition of this and the record from your hearing. Because there's nothing in that earring, no matter what game you belong to, and no matter what reality you choose, that fits, that makes it possible to define any of this. So I just have to ask Anders Anundsen: does he really believe that this is a reality that's going to stand when people look for in the referendums?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1478	It's possible that we're talking a little bit past each other, because one of them is statements that come from media postings. These media storages led to control cases. So the Control and Constitutional Committee made its case, based on the information we then received from the media and from the Council of State. Then we have carried out a verification hearing. The opinions referred to by Christensen came long before this became a formal control matter in the Control and Constitutional Committee. So I just think that even Christensen needs to look a little bit closer to what is really the matter of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and what is being debated outwards, in the media. It's sometimes a little bit different.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1485	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1488	There was a little bit of speed in things, to say it like that! But I must inform the committee's leader, Anders Anundsen, that it is hardly right to appoint Martin Kolberg as the director of the theatre, because a director of the theatre has a simple opportunity to decide which piece he wants to set up. Kolberg has not been involved in this matter. Then it's corrected and that knowledge in place with the committee leader. What's history from the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Right is that they don't run politics, they only run with control and hearings for control. It has nothing to do with politics. That's interesting, because I just thought there was something of what we were doing. But in this case, we obviously don't. We only operate with control in this matter. Then a question can be asked if what has been in the newspapers about mafia activity and power arrogance, in a way, builds up against that we have to move forward on this track. I would believe that a leader of the control committee would have conversations with his party leader about how to deal with the news picture. I want to assume that it is clear with Anders Anundsen that Siv Jensen is going to say what she says, and that Per Sandberg is going to say what he says. Then it becomes a little strange that one tries to get away from it, but at least I think it's normal in the second party that if one is going to use such strong words against someone, a check should be made against the leader of the committee. So to this listener. The government party didn't want a listener, that was the starting point. So come the call. We're taking a lot of time to prepare. We've been trying to get a good listener. We have, among other things: brought in Børge Burnde. We ask everyone, but when we get to Børge Burnde, who can tell you something about what it's like to sit on the board of Statoil, and what it's like to be a leader in Mesta, and how to exercise your position as a member of a board, then don't ask the Right and the Advance Party any questions to him. So they're jumping at the possibility of their own people, their own right-wing people. For me, it becomes incredibly provocative and an arrogance of power that I have not experienced in that committee before, but which, in my opinion, weakened the Committee's impressions afterwards. Little back to this because it's not really politics to appoint people to rule. Per-Kristian Foss uses Harald Norvik as a witness to the fact that if one is invited as owner, the new owners must have influence. Yes, exactly - they have to. Harald Norvik has our director in Statoil, who was privatized in 2001, and it is clear that then there must be an influence on the new owners. That's why this is about what kind of people are in control, and what political attitudes they have to that ownership. Do they want to have an active ownership, or do they want a passive ownership, where only one is sitting and counting money? I'm going to believe that the Progress Party and the Right will appoint people to the government who in a way will do something they want from the state. At least that's how I think: if you have a red-green government, you want one in a way more red-green policy, also through the ownership exercise you have. And that's the expression I understand that Trond Giske has tried to stay in proportion to the plurality he has in his back to pursue ownership policies. So the representatives from the Progress Party and the Right are ignoring it, and they're trying to make this a matter that's not primarily about politics. But when you look at history, you see that this is probably a thank you for last to Trond Giske in relation to the Telenor. No, here the opposition has had a bad thing. The Storing and the Control Committee have spent a lot of time on a matter that we shouldn't have spent time on. There should be the lesson for the Right and the Advance Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1510	When SV was in opposition, they liked to present themselves as the little man defends against power, which they liked to call it. But after the party itself was given government power, there has obviously been a ham change in the party – and history has shown that it has often been when socialists are given government power. Now SV appears to be the foremost defender of the power that was once fought against. For example, the party now defends the selection of non-practice state-owned board members, the creation of new paid board seats to bring in those you want – with the right party book – and the appointment of alleged friends in central positions. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Langeland whether he is comfortable with his new role as a defender of the «maktoe» which he previously opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1519	I want to take a great deal of distance from the fact that SV has no influence in today's government. On the contrary. That is why we are talking about the Progress Party and the fear that the Progress Party will actually have influence with its policy in a new government. They would, but I hope it never becomes such a government. But what happens here is that one goes on with the claims that the hearing has rejected as a problem. That's what Waksdal is doing now. Of course SV has asked us the critical questions. We also asked critical questions to Børge Brende, a person who ignored the Advance Party and said one would not ask any questions at all. So here, Waksdal has to explain himself better than what he does, not just challenge SV in position when it comes to that job. But from the point of view of the majority, we have given a signal to the Minister of Industry that we want to keep a record in companies that don't do anything right with the problem of pay. It is also driving policies and active ownership – which the Progress Party does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1528	I note that the representative Langeland does not respond to whether he thrives in his new role. He does not seem to thrive in his new role as a defender of «maktoe». At least I can see that. Over a number of years, SV has highlighted the importance of our active ownership of state enterprises, in order to influence, control and control the development of these enterprises. I have registered that SV and the representative Langeland have been more than on average concerned that the management salaries of state enterprises are not to be paid. Is the representative of Langeland satisfied with the development of the state leadership salaries now, after his party has been in government for almost eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1536	The advantage of SV is that we want state ownership, we want to be part of and govern state ownership. The simplicity of the Progress Party is that you should sell yourself down, so do not have any control at all. Privatisation, privatization, privatization. Well, then it's easy. Then you're just looking at the market and market power. You do not use the property you own. It's good progress party policy, but it's not good SV policy. When it comes to what's happening in the company with boards of directors and seniors, it's exactly the theme that SV's been on in the media. There is something about this in the setting. It says that if the state that owns is not satisfied with the rents, a record should be written. If you write that protocol, it may lead to an insecure future for those members of the Governing Board who do not follow up on national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1543	It is tempting to look at this simplified version of Hallgeir H. Langeland's view of the Progress Party's policy. I'll try not to do that. I was actually going to start with the fact that SV, like a law-and-order party, is concerned that others should follow rules, but then I realized that SV is not a law-and-order party, so I thought it was also a bad introduction. But I tried to get to Martin Kolberg instead of telling him why it's so important that the state that owns should have a shortcut past all the processes that all the other owners are part of. At least SV tries to give an idea of, it's a lot for the little man. I guess that's also the usual shareholder. There are a lot of people who are shareholders in Telenor. What is the reason why the state should have its own arrangement for the way it plays into these processes, at the expense of the little man?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1552	Now I don't know how many axles the little man has. My impression is that there are more men larger than small men who have large shareholdings. From my point of view, I assume – I have to answer this a little insecure, and the Minister of Industry may have to answer – that it has something to do with the fact that when you have a higher ownership, that is, over 50 pst, and want to do this in a way that doesn't make you in trouble, it can be done that way. I don't know enough about this, but if you take a new line here, I hope the leader of the committee – the director of the theater – says what's coming out of this ring, beyond the little thing that's standing on the side of the government party, sticks to the minutes of the general assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1557	The latter is very easy to answer – although I am going to ask the questions, and Langeland is going to answer in this round – namely that the media’s presentation of this case has been confirmed. It's a pretty big change – from having unconfirmed claims in the media to having confirmed a situation and an incident course. I think that's the whole point of control hearings. It's possible Langeland thinks otherwise. When the State of a company, such as Telenor, deciding to sell down and invite both the small and the large man and woman in the street to contribute to a shareholder community to secure values, but even retaining a majority of the shares, shouldn't this also lead to the State having the necessary respect for the other shareholders by following the procedures that all the other shareholders must follow? The same is true of the Kongsberg Group, where the election committee in the hearing says: If any other owners – large or small – had come to us with this, we would have refused.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1564	As I said in my previous answer, my knowledge of this is limited. That's why I replied as badly as I'm going to answer in vain right now, because I don't see it as a just principle that with one share it should have the same rights as those with 53 pst, as in Telenor-saka. I don't necessarily see that as the big point. Then it is also that when you run with state ownership and own a lot, you also have to think strategically about what you want to achieve with that company, as the largest owner. Then I thought it would be reasonable for one to have such dishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1569	It's true that there are different rights, depending on how much share you have. But all shareholders deserve the same respect. I understand that Hallgeir H. Langeland is not so concerned about it, but that ownership of SV's hands means that they use that majority in exactly the way they want it. That's exactly what the stock exchange director says: we create great challenges in terms of trust in the state of Norwegian ownership. That's exactly what's the challenge when you can't deal with the framework that everyone else is dealing with. Then I just have to ask a question related to what Langeland brought up in his post about Børge Burnde. So this hearing had three concrete events in three specific companies as the starting point. So the government parties insisted on adding a few extras, among other things. Børge Brende, who has nothing to do with the Progress Party, even though Langeland is trying to represent it as if there are right parties. There are different parties, and he has nothing to do with us. They thought it was all wasted time. The Director and various directors disagree. Børge Brende had nothing new to add to the case – or did he?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1576	I'm sorry if I insult the Progress Party by dragging them into a piece called the Right Party. But SV is very aware that the Progress Party is a party of its own, and we look forward to being, hopefully, a main enemy of the policy of the Progress Party. When it comes to respect for the small shareholders, I think a little bit differently. First of all, it would be up to SV – at least up to me – if the state shareholdings were not as small as they are. Then Statoil would have been 100 pst. state-owned, and then we didn't have to deal with any small shareholders. That's the way it would be in several of the companies. That's my starting point. Respect for small shareholders? Yes, but we should also have respect for the Norwegian people, who own larger parts of Telenor, Statoil, etc. We have to respect most people who own our companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1583	The representative of Langeland was now so eager to answer something I didn't ask for, so I give him another minute. What was the new Børge Brende contributed to the control hearing, which SV thought was completely unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1590	What Børge Brende did was that he confirmed that he had got a position – the two regimes he put in. When it comes to the one government, Mesta, I have actually been in conflict with him because he sold out the asphalt section, which I opposed. He confirmed that the procedure followed here – in the case of the Minister of Industry – was correct. It was important for us to get in that earring. That's what we got out of here. So we also learned that state ownership is important, and that even right-wing people can be involved and contribute to its functioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1595	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1598	The intervention of the government parties in the control committee has been sea critical all the time I've been there. We, as government parties, are not afraid to point out faults and shortcomings in what the government is doing, because that is the role of the control committee. In this case, there was an exchange of letters between the Committee and the Council of State, and we did not find any basis for establishing a case traditionally based on the answers given by the Council of State. The representative of Kolberg has here well described in detail what has happened in the matter. The Committee's proceedings, when a case was set up, and the whole day's proceedings that we had during the hearing, did not reveal any breach of the State's guidelines on good ownership. What came out was that the Ministry of Industry and Trade had on two occasions made their proposals too late, after what had been agreed. What has emerged in this discussion is that the chairman of the committee has said that if there had been any greater humility on the part of the Council of State, an probably avoided the matter. So we're facing a case where the constitutionally responsible state council has not shown the necessary humility, from the opposition's point of view, and it has become a matter. What is at the heart of the question is, of course, the underlying thing in the matter, the view of the extent of the country's ownership and the view of the exercise of state ownership. With regard to the extent of state ownership, there is a disagreement between the classical right forces and the classical social-democratic or socialist interests – and then with a centre party that has a pragmatic view of state ownership, where we have always seen it as right within, for example, the Telecom page, within the defence industry and within the building used by the State. We are therefore very confident in a tradition where we see state ownership as a necessity to complete the private ownership, which we otherwise want to be scattered on as many hands as possible. So with regard to the exercise of state ownership, which is the underlying theme here today, there are two companies that have been most in the foreground, namely Telenor, where the state has 53.97 pst. ownership, and Kongsberg Gruppe – the former Kongsberg Armed Factory – where the State owns 50,001 pst. What has evolved over time, which is at the heart of the matter, is that there has been a political understanding, independent of governments – I would stress it – of the fact that the state is to make capital available to these state-owned companies, where the board is to use that capital according to common rules for private business principles, where the principles are gradually increasingly inspired by the greatest possible return in a short time. What is positive – and it is very important to me – that has come out of this case, is that we have had a discussion on how to exercise the state ownership of companies with which there are also private owners. From the side of the government parties it is clear in the setting that we ‘considers it essential that State ownership performs the specific tasks of ensuring and further development on behalf of the Community of all or part of State-owned companies. Thus, state full or partial leases involve far more than the highest possible share price as is the case for listed companies. State ownership is also a strategic ownership.’ That's what's essential here -- that we've been clearly explained through the setting that when the state is inside the company as a partner, it's in order to take care of the particular circumstances that the community needs to take care of. So it's a strategic ownership, while a sailor has to deal with the provisions of the Share Act. This is the same as when any other owner is inside a company: one has two focus all the time. With regard to the exercise of ownership and those in the board of directors, we have shown from the government parties that under the general stock law, the board is responsible for determining the remuneration conditions of the Executive Director. In our view, therefore, we believe that: «the State must have an active role in the selection of directors in order to ensure that the Governing Boards follow up the country’s overall financial remuneration guidelines for managers and moderate wage developments.» In addition, the Committee as a whole has agreed on the following wording: «In several wholly-owned state-owned companies/undertakings, the overall financial compensation of management has reached an excessive level» — an excessive level. So it shows that we've finally had a discussion about both the content of state ownership, the exercise of it and the remuneration according to what I'm going to say is a progress in relation to the past. It is not the first time that government parties have pointed out the need for more active state ownership in relation to their interests. Once one has got it done, I expect one to go from comments to action on these points. This, I believe, is in the best tradition of how the members of the government parties act on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, to ensure that what is the will of the Storting is followed up in the day-to-day actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1637	This case has, as is well known, its background in media essays that the Minister of Economic Affairs had tried to place a alleged friend of itself on the Board of Directors of Telenor, after the election committee had done its preparatory work, claims that the LO leader was satisfied with a paid board of directors of the Kongsberg Group for a year when the board was not even in a position to vote, and claims that a alleged friend of the Minister of Industry was attempted to be appointed as Managing Director of Entra without following normal processes. In the nomination, the government parties wrote that they ‘opposed that this matter should be dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee’ and that ‘there were no indications that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade had gone beyond its powers and responsibilities as a Council of State’. Does the real representative, Mr Lundteigen, seriously believe that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should not go into and investigate the very serious allegations made in the press?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1646	What has emerged from the hearing during the Committee's proceedings is that the Council of State has not exceeded its powers. With regard to the claim concerning the head of the LO, and the fact that the Council of State and the Ministry were involved in it, it became clear early that what was true was that it was the electoral committee that chose such a solution on a sea-going basis, which means that a product representative – in this case Roar Flathhen – is given a permanent right to meet and a high level of remuneration. That's something the election committee went into. I'm sure there's a lot of opinions about that. I am among those who have no special sense of that kind of remuneration, but it is then an assessment for which those who took it are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1655	I'm going to give the representative Lundteg a new chance. Is it not our duty, both as politicians and as a control committee, to investigate such serious allegations? Isn't it good for all parties to have all the facts on the table in such an important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1660	It is important to investigate claims. There was an exchange of letters between the Committee and the Council of State, and the answers given in the case were sufficient for us. Further treatment has not provided information that has shown that the Government has broken the governance guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1665	Let me first correct something in Mr Lundtigen's speech, where he concluded that as committee chairman I would have said that the matter would have been avoided if there had been any more humility on the part of the Council of State. It's a direct error. That's not what I said. It was a general comment related to humility that some politicians can take with them – not only the Council of State, but also the rest of us. I want to challenge Lundtegen on what I have tried to challenge both Kolberg and Langeland on. There are procedures for recording representatives who want to become members of a board. Why does Lundtigen think it is right that the State that owns should avail itself of a special opportunity to close these processes at the expense of the other owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1672	What I said about humility was an understanding of what the committee chairman said, and I'm sorry if I should have expressed myself differently. But this was clear as my understanding of what was the introduction to the representative Anundsen. In the case of procedures, it is clear that any organisation has procedures, and one must have procedures to be clean. On the part of the government parties, we have pointed out that on two occasions the procedures have not been followed, by saying that one has been late with his candidates.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1679	Just a brief follow-up: Does it mean that the representative Lundtigen agrees with the criticism that has come, and that he agrees that the government must go through the way they deal with these kinds of things?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1684	All three government parties point out in the setting what I just said, namely that in two cases the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has made representations to candidates a little late. There's something we're looking at that that's not desirable, and I'm counting on the ministry through this discussion we have here today, making sure that one goes forward in such a way that one at the earliest possible time, for the interests of the ministry, takes up their people to care for their interests. I expect the Ministry of Enterprise and Business to be a learning organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1689	I interpret it as a yes, and I'm glad. I'm pleased with that answer. I also have to ask a question related to the Kongsberg Group and the appointment of Flöthen, because there was damage to Lundtegen in order to give the impression that there was something the election committee had in its own way come to, and that they were fully behind that conclusion. On questions in the hearing, I used as an example – and this is reflected in the position – the presentation by the representative Kolberg tried to give in this case, which was in line with what the representative Lundtegegen now did, namely that this was something the election committee had its own head on, and that they were fully behind. I specifically asked Morris if there was a proper understanding of the situation, and she said, "No." I wonder if Lundtigen will correct what he just said?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1696	I don't need to correct it. What I said was that when it came to the compensation for Flöthen, it was a decision that the election committee made – how it was supposed to be. With regard to the name of Fleethen entering the Electoral Committee, it was submitted by the representatives of the State in the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1702	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1705	State ownership commits. It's true whether it's a whole-time or a part-time company. Ownership shall be managed in a orderly and sound manner, established legislation must be complied with and it shall be managed in accordance with the rules and arrangements laid down for State ownership. When the country is owned together with others, it is also important that the country behaves and follows the same guidelines as other owners and does not accommodate itself in a way that other owners cannot. In this case, there are in particular three companies that the Committee has looked at: Telenor, Kongsberg Gruppe and Entra Eiendom. In the two companies referred to above, the composition of the Board of Directors and in the latter’s appointment of the Executive Director and the stability of the Council of State. In Telenor, there is an example of discrimination against shareholders. Following the completion of a thorough process in the Electoral Committee for the election of members of the Governing Board, the State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade requested two candidates, even if representatives of the Department of the Electoral Committee were appointed. I guess it says when the chairman of the election committee informed me in the hearing that he had never experienced that candidates had been recorded so late in the process. With regard to the Kongsberg Group, there was a recording from the department that LO leader Roar Flåthen would enter the board even if none of the shareholders elected board members were in the election. The recording came the same day or the day following the expiry of the term of office of the Electoral Committee. The solution was that Flåthen became an alternate member with full remuneration, but without the responsibility of the board membership. The representatives of the State did not record the proposed name during the process. The representative of the Electoral Committee confirmed in the hearing that a similar solution had never been considered before or since. Other shareholders would have been cut off from the corresponding influence on the work of the Electoral Committee. This is, in our opinion, an inexhaustible way of managing ownership by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. So to the matter of Entra Eiendom. As early as April 2012, the Legal Department concluded that the Board of State Giske was involved in matters of particular benefit, loss or disadvantage to Constituent Executive Director Rune Olsø, who was subsequently employed in the post – although three of the Board’s members thought other candidates were better qualified. Only about six months later, on 9 October 2012, did the Council of State of Giske be appointed. Then you can ask yourself why it was not done before. In the verification hearings, several of them invited the government to make their input to board candidates in general. I would like to stress that it is important that the department behaves neatly when making recordings of its candidates. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposals that are promoted in the vote. It is important that the Ministry review its practice with regard to the election of the board member of companies in which the State has large interests and that it is ensured that the assumptions of the Storting are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1720	Let me start by saying that I'm also very concerned that we're going to have a neat relationship around our ownership exercise, we're going to have a responsibility, and we're also going to take good care of the shareholder community. What this scrutiny hearing, this matter and this debate actually show is that it is there. It's actually cleanliness, it's accountability, and a shareholder community takes care of it in a good way through the exercise of state ownership. But then it is said by the case-rapporteur that this must be seen as a «sample check». Sampling based on what? What I don't fully understand when the opposition uses words like ‘break’ on the ownership message, or at least a breach of Storting's assumptions, is what breaks are revealed. There is nothing in the setting about which breaks you refer to. I cannot, with the best of my ability – after re-reading the ownership message, read the guidelines in relation to the ownership message or the setting – find some reason to say that there is a breach of Storting's assumptions. It would be clarifying whether at least the opposition could suggest what it was of breaches of Storting's assumptions. On the contrary, it is the Storting's assumption that there is an active ownership exercised through the exercise of ownership and that a person also preserves ownership through the underlying activity. – Then I can agree that it can be an advantage if you get the input to the election committees or nomination committees at an early stage. But it's not a breach of the premise that they're coming in late. Nor is it that it is a shortcut, or that it is a power exercise to propose late in the process. In fact, there are unanimous nomination committees that promote their position for the general meeting. It's been in any case. So it could have been good to figure out what assumptions the Storting has made, and which of them there is a breach, because it's completely unclear to me. We must bear in mind that the nomination committees, which are the organs of the companies and which promote candidates for a general meeting, actually exercise their role with great integrity. But of course it is an advantage – and a clear will – that owners and large owners should be heard. This has been said very emphatically by Storting in the treatment of the ownership message and in their attitude, where they assume that diversity, breadth and different experience backgrounds are taken into account in the choice of government where the state owns. I still have the good news to hear a hint of what the conditions have been broken in this case. The other thing that bothers me is something that I think is most remarkable. It is that the majority chooses to convene the nomination committees of individual companies to hear how they have assessed the processes, how they have also assessed individuals in this respect. It is as the rapporteur said, that they did not really have expectations of clear answers, because large values – not least in terms of the market value and pricing of the companies and so on – were exposed by the answers they could possibly give. In my opinion, it is a most remarkable act to allow the Committee of Inquiry to convene the members of the nomination committee and not dare to ask them questions because it weakens the values of the companies. I believe that this matter bears witness to poor assessments by some of the representatives of this room. It's quite possible to disagree about where you want to, and it's quite possible to express that one might deal with matters differently and try by reducing the significance of government ownership, or in that way swearing ownership, but there's no doubt that this has been a quest for a government council. I think that in the minutes of the hearing there is clear evidence of the exchange of questions between the committee's chairman, Anders Anundsen, and Jan Erik Korssjön – I will not refer everything – how they will deliberately try to find out that it was other than Wikborg who had promoted – we shall say – the state's views on the nomination committee. It is quite obvious that it was a self after a state council in the hearing that was, and in my opinion, the record underlines it with all clarity. Through the ownership message, we have made it very clear that at Stortinget we have expectations of how to put together the boards, about skills, about capacity, about relevant diversity. Yes, we have even underlined it in the majority position. The opposition, those who are now promoting the strongest arguments against what has now happened, they were on a completely different line. They wanted more inaction, more restraint on the part of the state, but the majority of Storting has expressed a clear will, a clear opinion, on how to put those governments together. I want to go back to the Bondevik administration's time and to St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002 and underline what was said, for it states: ‘Cycle recruitment is therefore a very important task for the State as owner.’ Yes, it is through general assembly and through the exercise or composition of directors that a person exercises much of the ownership. I'm going to end by saying that I really hope we get an answer to what assumptions have been broken, and that they are made clear from the opposition, as to the degrees, also in this debate, there are doubts about what the Storting's will really is through the treatment of the ownership message and through the position that exists in relation to this matter. I don't see in any way that Storting's assumptions are broken. On the contrary, I believe that the Council of State and the Minister of Industry follow the guidelines adopted by the majority in a very good way. We want an active ownership and stress the importance of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1742	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1745	It was a nice contribution from the head of the nutrition committee. So the setting shows two very specific conditions that the opposition believes there is a breach. One is the assumption that shareholders are to be treated in a non-discriminatory way, and the other is that ownership is to be professional. In addition, the verification hearing builds up around the other criticisms of the suspension, so by reading the submission a little more carefully, the head of the nutrition committee would probably have got it. I want to ask the head of the business committee just because he is. I have tried to answer why it is important that the state should have its own backbone into the work of nomination committees in large state companies, where the state is a partner, but not a healer. What is the reason why the State should have this shortcut and close the processes to which the other shareholders of the company must relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1752	First of all, I believe that the question, or the emphasis on the fact that the state has a shortcut that short-circuits the processes, as it is produced, is incorrect. I believe that the involvement of the nomination committee, the fact that the nomination committee ensures dialogue with the major owners, is a quite natural part of such a process. In all cases, it is a unanimous nomination committee that presents its position to the general meeting and it is the task of the nomination committee to carry out the whole and the shareholder community in a good way. I take that into account and take it for granted that the nomination committees actually do, and that is also how the nomination committees have rejected some of the recordings we have seen through this scrutiny hearing. I believe that the processes associated with what we have become acquainted with through the hearing that has been, and what is in the Storting documents, have been good and that they also take care of the shareholder community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1757	It is in direct contradiction with what several central government representatives, representing the state of large state-owned companies, have written in an article that I referred to in my post. This is not a discussion about whether the State has the right to record candidates or names or whether it is right or not to have dialogue with a large owner. Of course, it's natural to record names, of course it's natural to have dialogue with big owners. The point here is that in the Telenor case, they've been working for eight months and they've had 23 meetings, and when it's done, the state comes up with a call on a name, despite the fact that the department has been represented in the election committee. It's a short cut. It is a shortcut that no other shareholders have access to. The exact same is the case in the Kongsberg Group case, where the election committee in the hearing was quite clear that no other shareholders would be treated in the way that the state became. Then the question is, why should the State have the opportunity to cut short such important processes in large international companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1762	I mean what I said initially for my first answer. I don't see this as a short cut. I see that the state also takes care of its interests by participating in the nomination committee. Then it is the nomination committee that evaluates those recordings, and in both cases – both Telenor and the Kongsberg Group – it is a unanimous nomination committee that has thus presented its position to the general meeting. It cannot, in the best possible sense, be referred to as a short-circuit. I also want to stress what Morris says about his work in connection with the nomination committee of the Kongsberg Group, that it is a great advantage for big owners to be heard, and that it is natural that large owners also have a conversation about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1767	We agree that this is quite natural and quite normal, and it should be done too, but it should be done in the same way that absolutely every other shareholder gets the chance, not through a short-term process. I think it's a strange kind of shadow boxing that the head of the nutrition committee runs. He's probably learned from the state council, because he's said exactly the same thing in the media, that since there's unanimous settings from the committees, everything's very well. It is – with respect to reporting – entirely on the side. If the election committee doesn't take into account a pressure from the biggest owner on what to do, yes, they know what the result is, then they're done, then they don't have that job in the next round. This is confirmed by the way Martin Kolberg reacted to the Aftenposten article. He said that not only do they oppose the Council of States, but they oppose a great number of people, and they should think about considering whether they should at all sit in such a government. Does the Chairman of the Business Committee agree with Kolberg that directors should not have their own opinions on important matters relating to the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1774	Board members must, of course, have their own opinions about the companies, even where the State is the owner. But I think it's important that the board members who sit in companies where the state is owned also have the impression that these are not ownerless companies. What I think the Progress Party and the Right really want is that one should have board members acting as if the companies are non-proprietary. We do not want that. We have a particular opinion on ownership – based on a strategic assessment, based on a diversity assessment of the competence of the board, etc. Of course, we also want to exercise ownership actively. I record again to read the position of the ownership message when we dealt with it, that the opposition parties, in particular the Advance Party and the Right, wanted a much more backward attitude towards state ownership – so they did not want to develop the state companies in the direction that today's government draws the state companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1783	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1787	I'm not sure if it's the Storting's problem that the representative Aasland has not finished reading the ownership message, in which it says a lot right and sensible, and which there was broad support here in the hall. Among other things, it says that there are quite great values to play. So that's more than formalities we're discussing. It is also described that companies with strong government ownership pay a discount on the stock market in the form of a lower pricing of the companies. This discount reflects the political risk that exists for the other shareholders by not necessarily operating according to purely business principles. The more you have a «record» about doing business and business, the less this discount will be. The more turbulence, the more party political unrest brought into governing bodies, the greater the discount will be, with the loss indirectly imposed on taxpayers. Large international companies – which fortunately we also have here in the country – collect shareholder deposits from all over the world. It is absolutely essential for foreign investment to believe that the host country is subject to the obligations of all those who wish to conduct their business in the form of a limited liability company. In the ownership message, to which I have referred before, there has been a great listing of countries that are just struggling with a poor reputation – and therefore pay a higher discount on state participation. Unfortunately, in particular, companies in former Eastern Europe have had to live with under-priced company values – between 20 and 25 and 30 pst. But trust can also be weakened in countries that are established legal systems. International investor environments keep an eye on policy developments and continuously assess whether companies are managed on the basis of business requirements or political side-by-side motives. The representative, Lundtägen, said earlier in the debate that ownership confers governing rights. It is possible that his experience is limited to the landowner's usual exclusive ownership, but this is not a jungle that can stand alone in the case of limited liability companies. The form of a limited liability company is a way of collectively owning and interacting with shareholders who are not even aware of their name. It is precisely that the form of the limited liability company has rules that do not give unconditional control over the interests of the minority. Non-discrimination of shareholder groups is required in relation to information and in relation to board representation. It's a set of rules. There is a defined division of responsibilities and roles between the organs of companies as long as they are in operation. This means that if a nomination committee is set up, it is also the one that promotes suspension. So it has to know all the input from the shareholders if it's going to be able to do a good job. Although the majority of the company is involved, the interests and decisions of the general meeting must be taken by general meetings. The autonomy and integrity of the boards of directors must be respected between general meetings. Without these rules, the State would not have obtained co-investors. Without these rules, the state-owned and state-owned joint companies would not have had the value they have. Martin Kolberg introduced into his defense of the Council of State the value of activity, which the Council of State as the owner may deport. Yes, it's beneficial to stay orientated and be interested in the business being run, but that's not what we're discussing. It is whether this activity is carried out outside, or whether it is carried out side by side, in competition with, or contrary to, the normal bodies of the company and their activities. Then Kolberg asks questions about how it all started. It started with the incorporation into a unanimous decision by Telenor's Board of Directors to help sell a TV 2 shareholding so that a pre-emptive right to which one had made an open-minded commitment in the shareholder agreement would not become a reality. The Council of State did not like this decision in a company, but used the State's blocking power in another company to achieve the same. So there was a pressure from the owner to influence the board to do something that the company was not supposed to do. Those who say that there is no evidence of a breach of the principles of ownership by the Council of State may begin the reading in the setting on page 7, where former Chairman Harald Norvik of Telenor states: ‘I myself have been under the untimely pressure of the Council of State, and it is well known to the Committee, for it has been discussed in the past. It was a pressure to make a different decision from what the board had decided to make, a decision that the board itself is responsible for taking, according to the governance principles of the state. It's untimely pressure. It has happened, it may happen again, and it is a matter that one has to talk about in public because it is a violation of state ownership principles.» Norvik also said in the verification hearing that there was a direct link between the matter in question and his departure as director of Telenor. I'm going to come back to this a little bit, because it's also about how to react to public space recordings – when people use their freedom of expression and write chronicles about good corporate governance. One of the problems here is that we have a government council that has been hurt to perceive the state companies for which he is responsible, like his personal toy gate. He is a private-practicing state capitalist who apparently accepts and takes into account interests in his ownership other than that of which the State should have strategic interest. But ownership is not a private matter. The ownership message has principles for that purpose. A sense of role must therefore follow the company's own working rhythm and its own working procedures and play into the right organs in a timely manner. It's not done here. Then it may also have been said in this Chamber that the Council of State has a reputation in working very freely and not linked to its ordinary administration and its own department of expertise. It also creates intrusion. I'll then go into what should also worry from a control point of view. It is that there is a red thread of turbulence from the matter I mentioned instead – that of being a superior over the board that has the formal responsibility – and up to the Kongsberg case, where the then board of directors created a problem with the Council of State. There was no problem recruiting the new board to the Kongsberg Group. They had finished the work and thought that a proper competence was represented – until they were presented for a requirement that was not to be mistaken, namely that they also had to find room for Roar Flöthen. This is where the press has been so bold – it is good that we have a free press – that they have pointed out that the Council of State needed to repair its relationship with the LO. After a case where they had been on a collision course – in the TV 2-Egmont case – he was looking for an opportunity to patch some wounds, and the possibility that one could settle one’s situation was investigated by putting Roar Flåthen into the board of the Kongsberg Group. Unfortunately, I did not agree with what I said at the outset that they respected the completion of the nomination committee's work, or such a trifle as that the general meeting that year would not elect a board at all. So you're making a construction that obviously isn't designed to solve the recruitment needs of the board of directors of the Kongsberg Group, but it's going to solve the government's problems. It's a pretty big difference, and I think it illustrates very well what I said instead of considering the management of state companies as their private affair. What is also worrying is that you choose a pay-as-you-go scheme that is completely disconnected from the principle that you get fees to reflect the risk you take as a member of the board. In this case, Flådhen was relieved of general administrative responsibility by becoming a so-called permanent agent, who does not have that responsibility. Understood: One had to construct a workload that could defend the fact that one was paid the same as the other board members. It was a mark of a gift disposition that should worry everyone, and which I hope the voters have noticed. After all, it's an upper house over a big one. I must also say that the moment of gift has not been further weakened by the fact that it turns out that this alternate does not find such a great interest in the daily functioning of the Kongsberg Group that one has a special presence. I think those who have defended the government today make it more difficult for themselves than is absolutely necessary. You paint a picture that asking questions and setting certain requirements for cleanliness as well as weakening recruitment to government offices in the state. I do not agree with that. I think that just a clean state with a professional owner administration attracts good talents and attracts the best you can get in the country to provide exciting functions on behalf of the country. I must also say that there have been some discouraging elements in the debate, and it is that, in particular, the most keen defenders of the Red-Green Government respond to criticism by denying those who criticise their honest motives and on the contrary insinuate that they are led by low party political instincts. How does the representative, Mr Kolberg, react to criticism that appears in one of our newspapers in chronicle, without a single party political argument? Well, he asks them to consider whether they can at all represent the state in a good way. It seems that the main criterion of success for the good representation of the State is that the Labour Party Councils are not shyed away by reminding in public space about elementary rules of good corporate conduct. On this point, I think it is alarming that those who have been put into the Grand Duchy to exercise one of the most important functions that the National Assembly is doing with the government, namely to control it in its performance of office, are so strongly defending this government that it is simply not able to do it properly. I would almost urge the representative of Kolberg to consider whether he is in the right committee if the loyalty of the Workers' Party prevents the exercise of constitutional duties, some of which are the most important of which is that the Storting is set to control the government's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1832	What should perhaps be a debate on whether the state has broken ownership principles has instead become a defence fight for the Right and the Advance Party in order to explain why this was at all a matter in the Control Committee. That is the debate I shall leave to the Stortinget and the members of the Control Committee. As members of the government, of course, we take note of the matters that the Committee of Inquiry wishes to raise. Let me start with the conclusion: a clear majority of this increase determines that the state's ownership principles have been followed. In fact, the comments of the Committee on the breach of State ownership principles are supported only by the Right and the Advance Party. You haven't even managed to get an overall opposition on those notes. It's very strange to be the Council of State and listen to a debate where the majority here and now determine that the guidelines have been followed, and hear the Right and the Advance Party still complain that they are broken. If the Stortinget is not the chief decision maker – here by a majority that goes beyond the Red-Green government parties – on whether the Stortinget's guidelines have been followed or broken, then who is going to confirm it? It must be that with regard to the guidelines of the Storting, it is the Storting that has the last word. But Tetzschner, Foss and Anundsen continue relentlessly with these claims despite the fact that the majority – a broad majority in this Chamber – does not join them. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the guidelines are broken, but do not therefore have any anchor in the Stortinget for it. I am pleased because it is important that we not only defend state ownership – which is a major issue – but also defend that a state ownership is a ownership in the same way as a private ownership. Yes, in fact, there is an even better, clearer and more solid ownership in the way we exercise this. It is precisely this development that has given us these guidelines that clearly describes how we exercise ownership. We've been trying on the part of the state to work with our companies – both the whole-time and the partisans – in a way that maximizes the community's values in these companies. In fact, the value development of these companies is as good or often better than the Oslo Børs average. There has been a very good return from these companies, and there is nothing to suggest that there is any stock exchange discount on the state-owned companies. It is also well anchored that companies that have active and clear owners do better than companies that have passive or absent owners. At the same time, in the companies we own with others, we must have a cleanness of mind that everyone should be able to make their contributions and that the board should take care of the interests of the entire shareholder community. We're also doing it in a good way. Let me say this: the state is a special owner in that way that we are anchored in a political system. That means that the things we advocate towards the companies must be anchored in processes other than an individual private owner can allow. This means, among other things: that we have processes in which political leadership in the Ministry of Economic Affairs or in other departments will also address questions. Occasionally, a broader college will also decide on matters, either government or sub-committees – there is a slightly different way of organising under different governments. It is a demanding process to have a process in a selection committee in parallel. On the one hand, we should not get too early with our conclusions and opinions, because that will then be seen as a fait accompli, where the flexibility of the process needed by the electoral committee will be limited. On the other hand, we shall not be late enough to allow sufficient time to decide on the recordings to be made by the electoral committee or by a general meeting. It's going pretty well, and it's anchored in a good way. At the same time, I must say that if there is a contradiction between the need of an electoral committee for much time and the need for democracy for a thorough process, then democracy must take precedence. It is we, as the representative of the community – not as a private practitioner, but as the representative of the community, anchored in a large number, anchored in a magnificence – who must take care of the interests of the owner. If you start raising an election committee to one way to stand above the owner, then you're on completely wild roads. I'm actually so old that I remember the 1970s debate on corporate democracy, where it was discussed whether the employees should have a majority of the boards of the companies, and where the right side cried out that this was to deprive the owners of the right to rule over the companies. There are good arguments for this, and the conclusion was that employees did not have a majority in the board of directors. But now it is the electoral committee that is to be set over the owner, and then a kind of non-discrimination principle is to be created in which large and small shareholders are to be treated equally. No, they're not. I also explained this in my statement to the Audit Committee during the hearing, that it is clear in the basic principles of NUES that the position of an election committee should be anchored with the largest owners. In Telenor, we're not just one of the biggest owners – we're the most sovereign owner. We're a big owner, and then we have processes other than the thousands of individual shareholders. This is also true in private companies, yes, in some private limited liability companies, it is not even an election committee. So it would be interesting to hear what the Right Party and the Advance Party think about the treatment of small shareholders in private companies, who have a completely different way of approaching this than the state has. The chairperson of the Committee spoke of ‘bridging up the processes’ or having a ‘return’ to the Electoral Committee. Nothing could be more wrong. This is part of the ordinary process, and that's the front door we use! In the Kongsberg case, this was described in detail in the position of the Electoral Committee, so it was publicly known long before this became a matter in the Control Committee. All that appeared at the hearing of the Control Committee was to be read in the vote of the Election Committee. The committee chair also described the problem as not whether Sandvik or Bakke or others were involved in the election committee – the problem was that they arrived so late that they were not evaluated in the same thorough manner as others. We haven't seen it as very beneficial for these companies to have a broad, public interpretation of which candidates are assessed in the election committee; I think that seems restrictive on the recruitment. But now we see that the board member Bakke himself wrote a letter to the control committee describing that he was in a 1.5-hour interview before being proposed as a board member in Telenor. And we also see that the representatives of the electoral committees in the hearings of the control committee note that this was done in a good way. The anund said that this was done differently than for the others, but then he answered a question from – I think it was – Kolberg that he did not know how the others were judged. It is interesting that the committee chairman can conclude that Hallvard Bakke was treated differently from the others, while at the same time he has no knowledge of how the others were treated. You shouldn't have had many o-disc lessons until you realize that the logical flaw is perfect when you can't explain it. There is not one place in the setting that there was a different and less thorough assessment of the board member Hill than the others, and it would have been interesting if Anundsen could confirm or deny that all the others who were proposed to the board of directors of Telenor were in for an interview. Or was it so that even appointed people were not in the interview? We can sum up with the following: there are miles of distance between the claims that were made from the Right in particular and the Advance Party in the introductory part of this case, to what is now to be read in the setting. The representative Kolberg has referred to some of these claims, but let's take a few more. In the daily newspaper of October 6th, the representative Per-Kristian Foss himself tells the Daily Newspaper about the employment in Entra that this can act as a «companial employment». The representative, Sanner, says that he ‘likes badly to see members of the board with ties in the Ap trump this through’. And he also says, "This appears to be a million-dollar job." The representatives Anundsen and Foss say to NTB on 22 October that we take ‘both reservations that TV 2’s production is correct’, but ‘in that case it is unacceptable’ and ‘very serious’. And Siv Jensen, as Kolberg referred to, says that this ‘remembers suspicion of corruption and bribery’. And she says that what has happened here is that the Workers' Party is constructing a special arrangement of NOK 195 000 per year. Now it turned out that the working party had not designed any special arrangements at all. It became very clear in the hearing that it was the election committee that found out that they wanted to honour this in this way, and that not even the proposal came from the state. It is possible that what the representative, Anundsen, said was a picture, but let me say it so that I would like to use that picture – that this is a ‘ceiling’ of a political debate. And I can say that, because it's said outside this hall. Had it been in this room these things had been said, it might have been unparliamentary. This is one way to argue – by corruption, mafia-like conditions, buddy employment with a million-dollar gain – that is not reflected at all in the setting. If there is one disclosure throughout this case, it is that none of these serious claims could be documented in such a way that it is stated in the setting! Because it is guaranteed that if they had a trick to build up under this, they would have to write it in the setting. It is possible that it has become so that the Right Party and the Advance Party have learned so much from their sister parties in the United States and the United Kingdom that this is the way to debate – to make claims outside this hall, at their own party meeting or national government or in the media and create as much as possible about it, and so, when you have to document things in this room, at all, do not follow up the words in the position. Now, of course, the press bench is empty, now that you have achieved what you want through these essays – excuse Geir Moen: The press bench is not completely empty, but almost empty. You've achieved what you wanted with the playoffs and the attacks you made. But we're going to stand up and defend the state ownership, we're going to stand up and defend an active state ownership, we're going to use the influence we have as a big owner to choose board members that we think best serve our community, interests with ownership – whether there's long-term industrial development instead of short-term speculation, whether there's jobs and business development in Norway and out, whether there's moderation in leadership wages and rewards for those at the top, or whether there's other aspects of the company's operation, and of course most of all: a good value creation, Norwegian-based ownership and solid corporations. I note that the government parties have been skeptical about having a hearing and case, but for me personally it was a good thing that it became a case, because, in particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party are completely lacking evidence of the serious claims they have made in the media, and it is good that it is documented in a big paper – in Innst. 209 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1866	The President must draw attention to the fact that the concept of'sleeping' is not a parliamentary expression, even though it is used to characterise debates that have taken place outside the main hall. It'll give rise to a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1871	I'm not going to stretch the hall again to argue for the setting. The Council of State has previously spoken words by way of Martin Kolberg, and the Council of State now stands and repeats what Martin Kolberg has said, so I don't have to argue with that anymore. I just want to say very briefly that what I'm quoted in the press – friend-in-law and very serious – about this matter, I stand by and would like to repeat in this Chamber at any time as the Council of State would like. But what I want to ask the Council of State is: in the light of his conduct towards former Governor of Telenor, Norvik, who, during the hearing, characterised the behaviour of the Council of State as a clear violation of state ownership principles, will I ask whether the Council of State agrees with Martin Kolberg that the members of the board who wrote an article in the evening post should now think through whether they can ‘represent the State in a good way’ because ‘they say something different in their chronicle than the majority of the population thinks’? Do the councils agree with Martin Kolberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1882	I believe that we must constantly have a critical view of which members of the board best serve the interests of the community in the companies in which the State has ownership. I have to say that the chronicle that stood in the evening post, actually almost words for words were drawn from the guidelines that I myself was with and presented in the ownership message in this room. One point that deviates seriously from that is where these board members say that the owner may be in danger of overcoming an election committee. And that's where you go completely wild in who owns who. So it's the community, the state that owns 54 pst. in Telenor, or 100 pst. in Entra, or 50 pst. in Kongsberg Gruppe. It is not the Kongsberg Group or Telenor or Entra that owns the state. And just having a notion that the largest owner can overrun an election committee is a fundamental misunderstanding of this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1887	There is nothing to read in these articles about the overrun of the Election Committee by the Ministry. But what has been highlighted is that the ministry can run a parallel arrangement with the electoral committees with a view to promoting its candidates, as usual, through the state member of the electoral or nomination committees. State councils use expressions in their posts and now in the line change that give the impression that it is contrary to democracy to run parallel – i.e. a parallel process, preferably with quality assurance, with the use of international consultants, etc. Is it impossible for the state to actually do anything but stumble in this process? Is it not possible to run parallel, and is it not also compatible with democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1894	That's what's going on. We have a large staff in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the ownership department, who is constantly working to find and evaluate good candidates, to record the names of the electoral committees and to try to get as good governments as possible. But we also have the right to say that we're not satisfied with one or the other solution, until the process is in the goal. It has even happened – it is not lucky – that the state has had a different opinion after the election committee’s announcement has been published publicly. It has not happened in my time, and not in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but in another department in previous times. It's not lucky. We should have as much unanimity as we can, but we have a sovereign right to care for the interests of the owner. This is the case in private companies, this is the case with state companies, and there can be no difference between the authority that we as Community owners have, from what a private owner has.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1899	Then I just want to see that if what the Council of State now says is the usual thing, at least the control committee has succeeded in finding out two examples, in two specific companies, that it has not done so. It was too late, and it came after the nomination or election committee had de facto – not formally, but de facto – finished its work. In the designation of e.g.: Hallvard Bakke had meetings with the nomination committee for over eight months – 23 meetings – to find candidates. After that process was completed, the department recorded – as the last word in its debate – the name Hallvard Bakke, who was not tested in the nomination committee, but an hour and a half. This is different from the test that the Election Committee has described very carefully in the hearing in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1904	The last one here is just interesting. I wonder if I have got an incorrect version of the setting, for here, in Innst. 209 S for 2012-2103, is the full record of the hearing. Now the representative Foss says that Hill was exposed to another and then clearly easier weighing, testing and assessment than the others. Bakke has now made it clear that he has been interviewed for an hour and a half in the committee, and I think the committee also says that they carried this out in a proper way. I know that I cannot ask the representative, but it would be very nice if he could clarify where in this setting, in this record, it says that the others who were elected to the Telenor Board have been subjected to a greater and more thorough assessment than what Hill has been subjected to. That's what Anundsen also emphasizes here, and that Foss now repeats. It is repeated and repeated and repeated, but where is the record from the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1911	This is shown by the fact that all the other candidates were an end result after a process of 23 meetings. So, at the possible 24th meeting – which was not held, but after the 23rd meeting and the nomination committee agreed on its selection – the recording came from Hallvard Bakke, which was not the prime of the Council of State. It turns out that there was more of a trunker worker party. But after it was turned down, the recording said that at least they had to take Hallvard Hill. The person who can then claim something else after this description of the process, which is well reproduced from the hearing – all that was said in the hearing, is printed in the document – must be on a different level. He came in overtime, and he came in the back way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1916	Firstly, there is no overtime until the Committee has completed its work and put forward its position. Secondly, it is not backwards when one of the members of the electoral committee makes their names available on behalf of the absolute largest owner. It's the front door, it's the main gate into an election committee. But once again, there's not a single place here where the others who were elected to that board have been subjected to a more thorough process than the Hallvard Hill has been exposed to. So the whole premise for this criticism – which in any case is sky-wide away from camaraderie and corruption and mafia states and what it is now especially the Progress Party has promoted with its pictorial language, as it is now called, on other occasions – is simply not there. It is, at least to my knowledge, simply wrong. So this has to document the opposition somehow, because that's the main part of the criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1924	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1927	Often it is polite to listen to Minister of Industry Trond Giske. Today I think it was simply frightening. I find it strange that a Minister of Industry does not see the difference in a process in which candidates who are going to sit together on a board are involved in the assessment of among 60-70 candidates where the different competences are assessed against each other in order to ensure an optimally composed board, and to make recordings of names after the whole process has ended. I find it incomprehensible that the minister does not understand. I also think it is rather arrogant to stand on the floor of Stortinget and claim that there is nothing about this in the vote, nor in the Minutes. I would like to draw attention to the setting and to the record from the inspection hearing, page 8. It says – and unfortunately I have to quote, after the round of the Council of State has now come from the pulpit – that I asked Harald Norvik, who at that time was director of Telenor: ‘But you played a certain role by having the dialogue, for example: the seven people who were interviewed were interviewed by you. Did you also have an interview with the final candidate?’ Harald Norvik answers: ‘I was not asked to take interviews with the final stage of candidates.’ I'm asking: ‘Is it abnormal?’ Norvik answers: ‘Yes, in the process it is abnormal, but timing made it impossible.’ I think it is quite special, after the tirad we have now received from the Council of State, that we can so easily prove that what he says is wrong. Then, correct Norvik adds that he was otherwise in France, and that ‘I guess it wasn’t fit to bring me back from France’. But claiming that this is not mentioned by relevant persons is therefore directly wrong, which is the case with several of the things that have been pointed out by the Labour Party representatives from this pulpit today. It is also rather odd that the Minister of Industry is in doubt about defending a solution that he or Kongsberg's nomination committee has ever witnessed in the past, namely a structure in which one elects an alternate member with full board remuneration, but without meeting duty and without board responsibility. The Council of State is trying from this pulpit to present it as if it had appeared in the heads of the election committee in the Kongsberg Group. It is also in the same position, which I now refer to – the minutes of the hearing – that I asked a question to the nomination committee and presented it in the manner that Kolberg and the Council of State have done from this pulpit. I asked if this was a proper representation of the truth. Then the member of the Committee replied: No. Actually, I think this debate has been quite good in many ways. It's been about a lot of different things. I also think it's at the border of arrogant, if I'm allowed to say it from the Parliament's pulpit, when the Council of State presents it as if it's just the Right Party and the Progress Party that's behind this criticism. Partly that's right. But it comes out in the position, on several points, quite serious criticism as an overall opposition, which is a majority in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. There is a majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs who believe that these cases have revealed weaknesses that require a review of the ministry's work on this front. I hope that the representative Giske listened carefully to the exchange of lines between the representative Christensen and me about humility. There he has something to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1968	No longer the representative Giske, but actually the Council of State Giske is next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e1971	Let me just say that it is quite illustrative for this case that what started with Anundsen’s party leader standing on the platform – I think it was at the National Board meeting in the Progress Party – and said that this “remembers suspicion of corruption and bribery” and that “the working party constructs a special arrangement of NOK 195,000 per year”, which is so far away from what is in this position it is possible to come – has become a debate on whether the chairman Harald Norvik has taken all the possible new members of the board before the suspension was given. It is quite clear in the same report Anundsen pointed out that Harald Norvik drew attention to the following: ‘I was not on the electoral committee; I was the chairman of the board.’ That's what Harald Norvik said. What is the point here is whether the Electoral Committee has been allowed to make an assessment of the different candidates. After all, it's not the director of the board who makes that assessment. There are complete disc bombs in relation to the bodies that have the responsibility of a company. It is the Electoral Committee that assesses the various candidates proposed by the Electoral Committee. So it's often common practice that the board of directors get the opportunity to meet the new board members. But it's not the director who hires a board of directors of a company. If the chairman of the control committee thinks this is the case, I understand that there will be a control case of ownership management issues, because it is a complete misunderstanding of who has what role. It would have been nice if the chairman of the control committee – as far as I know is also a trained lawyer – could explain how the chairman of the board should be the head of board of a large company. So to this Alexandra Morris quotation. She says on page 19: ‘Now I don’t know exactly what to answer – you asked so much.’ The following questions are also asked later: ‘Kolberg is trying to make this appear as if this is not a pressure, that this is something you do of your own free will.’ And he goes on to say, ‘that this has actually been taken from their heads’, i.e. the proposal for the Fleet. And on the other hand, ‘Is there a correct description of the situation?’ Then Morris answers, "No." But it says in the vote on the election committee that the proposal came from the state. So what Morris replies to was, is that the proposal of the fleethen taken from its own heads? No, it's not, but it's been publicly known for a year that it's like this. It is in the position of the Kongsberg Group that this proposal came from the state. So Alexandra Morris answers absolutely correctly – that this proposal came from us. Also, it's quite a record bomb in relation to what the Progress Party has been doing. The Progress Party has been systematically attacking state ownership for 50 years. It has been one of the foundations of the party to liquidate or build up the ownership of the community, not only to state companies, but also far into the welfare sector. We're going to stand up to that fight no matter what form it takes. But now it takes a form that can hardly be documented, with a vocabulary that neither belongs in the staging room nor otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2007	The last thing I agree with the Council of State. That's what he stands for, and I'm startled by the Council of State's angle. It's okay to disagree with a control case, but way of arrogance it should also be by the Council of State. It's also going to be interesting to see how the minutes are written here, when you're going to go through and check the quotes. When you take a little bit of a quote and a little bit on your own account, I think it's going to be pretty exciting. I have never said that the chairman is in favour of the election of the board. These are things that the Council of State takes from its own head. I'm familiar with the processes that go ahead. What was the discussion was about the last recorded person having gone through the same processes, to the same selection criteria as the other board representatives. There is no difference between being placed in such a process and being selected from about. 60 to 70 paragraphs and entering as a ‘bench’ proposal, after the competence of the various members of the board has been chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2016	The representative Anundsen must stop talking about the views of the largest owner on the composition of a board as a «bench proposal». Telenor is the property of the community – 54 p.m., to be absolutely accurate. We record our proposals through the member of the Electoral Committee in Telenor. It's front door. It's not a short circuit, it's not a back way, it's not a bench proposal. Now I understand that Anundsen's fossils from what he says. I ask, where does it say that the different board members, Hallvard Bakke in particular, were judged in another way towards the election? It was then pointed out that Harald Norvik had not been able to meet him. But Harald Norvik is not on the election committee. Then the question remains: how can Anundsen substantiate the claim that the last members of the board, who entered a stage that is late – and that should not be – were judged in a worse way than the others? Where does the record say – except that he did not meet the director, who has nothing to do with the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2023	Yes, now the representative Anundsen has a line on the Council of States, but the representative Anundsen has asked for a line, so it would be possible to answer if he wanted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2026	This evolves in a rather frightening way, in my opinion. The council places emphasis on the things he wants, takes things out of context and only creates a series of arguments that he hopes will last. Reading this review afterwards can be quite exciting. When I say that views from the largest owner are a bench proposal, that's right, because the process up to the selection of the nomination committee was finished. The State has its own representative on the nomination committee and could have made those recordings so that it would be assessed in the same way as all the other representatives. It was assessed 60-70 pieces. They were checked in relation to each other to ensure that they had the optimal competence of the company, precisely because it is up to the Electoral Committee to ensure the best possible composition for the company. When this whole process – this weighting between different candidates – is over, the Council of State says: Replace one of them, I'm not interested in who, and replace him with another. That it can be called for something other than unprofessional ownership, I don't understand!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2033	Almost everything Anundsen says is wrong. He must soon begin to substantiate the claims he makes. Where does the record of this hearing state that the various members of the board proposed have been assessed differently? He's talking about 60-70 that's been evaluated. Is it true that the 60-70 were for an interview? Can I ask for Anundsen's documentation of that? Where does it appear that the last members of the board proposed were not assessed in the same way in terms of competence? Were more changes made than the last recording in the last phase? Otherwise no one can say about this, and yet he categorically states that this was another type of assessment. Then he received a letter that the latter member of the board had been in an interview for an hour and a half before he was proposed to the board. My point is very relevant. That's what Anundsen says from the pulpit, is not documented in the hearing. He said that this was done another assessment of someone up against others. He has absolutely no basis for that – at least not in the hearing referred to in the document that I am presenting here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2038	It's possible that I'm very selective about formulating, so I'll try to make it as simple as possible. Today, it doesn't think you're qualified to sit on a board of an international company. You must have a competence to complete the other members of the Management Board. When the Electoral Committee is to set up such a board, it goes through the various parts that make the concrete people – together – fit into a board. It is an important part of the silting up to the Committee's setting up. It is after this silling, after these assessments, that the Council of State has made a record on a name. Why is it that the Council of State insists on a shortcut into those boardrooms? Could he not do so immediately, so that the candidate could have been judged against the other competencies of the other board members, in line with what is common practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2048	I think it's impossible to get Anundsen to take over that a process in an election committee is not finished until it's finished, and that a anchoring in the largest owner is not a sandfighting process, but a real process. Nor is it possible to get Anundsen to document how he can say that the last members of the board of directors of the last conclusion were weighed against each other on the basis of a totality of the board, like all the others. When asked about this, he refers to the fact that the directors have not taken the relevant members of the board. It was the documentary evidence that Anundsen says he's right that not everyone was evaluated in the same way by the election committee, i.e. they didn't meet a person who wasn't on the election committee. That describes the whole lack of documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2055	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2073	With the hope that this debate may have a little lower temperature than the debate we have just debated, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to explain how we are going to take care of some of the most valuable things we have, namely the children of our society. It's about how we take care of the children who may be in one of their most vulnerable and vulnerable situations. It's about having a welfare society that's best for those who need it the most. When our closest ones get seriously ill, most of us will experience anxiety and anxiety. When the relative is a child, fear and insecurity can become overwhelming. Sometimes the roles are turned upside down, and it's the children who become parents of their parents. Children in minority families feel that they must be interpreters and contact persons against the Norwegian auxiliaries when their mother and father do not speak Norwegian. It is particularly difficult when parents or siblings are seriously ill, and there are many and serious conversations. Meeting children or teenagers who have had to pass on to their parents the fact that they have serious — perhaps fatal — diseases gives the impression. In such situations, it is often said that the children are the weakest among us, but some of these children that are related are among the strongest. They carry the adult world's concerns and responsibilities on their shoulders, and quite simply many of them become too strong. We know that this is coming back to adult life. We know that many of those who have experienced that parents have had drug problems, parents have had mental problems, but are also seriously ill, even experience problems in adulthood because they have had to take so much responsibility. It is important that we establish that children should be allowed to be children even when Mom and Dad get sick — and also when Mom and Dad are unable to speak Norwegian. It's our responsibility to make sure that we have a public system that actually works like that. It is our responsibility to ensure that these children do not have to carry so heavily, and it is our responsibility to set up the safety net to catch them. But the first thing we have to do is just to see these kids. It's been a challenge. For many years we have not had a policy for relatives, especially a policy for children as relatives. In order to meet these challenges, inter alia: The right of the alternative state budget proposed to increase the allocation of the child-responsible health care businesses in order to ensure better follow-up of children as relatives. The previous Children's Ombudsman once said that it is the simplest and most banal things that are not done to ensure children a good childhood in our society. For example, when parents are sick or out of play in another way, the children need us as a society to be the big family they need. We no longer live in the time when grandma or grandpa was on the other side of the tunnel. The distances are larger, the help is needed in another way. Many good professionals have seen and taken care of children as relatives long before it somehow became a political matter. It's actually like we have a lot of good, conscious employees, but we know that hospitals and public services are fragmented, poorly coordinated, and then these are also often children as relatives. We may have to take self-criticism because we have not seen these children well enough up to now and have not taken good enough care of them. But once we've acknowledged that failure, we also have to do things better. That's why we've been working on closing the gaps in our security network in the last few years. One of the main measures taken is the establishment of the Children’s Best of Competence Centre. It's actually impressive to see how they've taken the challenge of spreading knowledge about how we can care for children as relatives. They impart knowledge and good examples to those who meet children as relatives in their daily work. They provide many of the professional adults with a tool that allows them to take better care of their children. The evaluation of BarnsBest has shown that they do the job with great enthusiasm. They provide many important measures to help children actually get help. The evaluation says that so much has been done that you might have to limit yourself a little – that’s really a pretty good joke. The title of the evaluation of BarnsBest is a quote from the employees: ‘We’re not asking, we’re just doing’. There might have been an ideal in this room too, that we did more than we asked. It turns out when the experience with BarnsBest shows that there is little systematic research-based knowledge about children as a relative. We may have for a period considered children related to drugs and psychiatry, but in other areas we haven't been as good. Luckily, for example, The Cancer Association has taken an initiative in this respect and is now systematically working much better with children as a relative of a cancer situation. It is still the case that getting a cancer diagnosis is a diagnosis that strikes hard. So we've established better models here. Then there is a requirement for child-responsive personnel in the specialist health service, and that is a step in the right direction. Child-responsible is a system responsibility imposed on institutions and it is a management responsibility to ensure that those responsible have the necessary capacity, competence and time. We can boast that we are the only Nordic country that has legal arrangements with child-responsors. But there are some challenges. Halsa and Kufås – in the book: Children as a relative, from 2012 – have conducted a focus group interview with the seven child managers of one healthcare company. Here three of these point out that the roles are diffuse, undefined and undecided. There is training in healthcare companies, but there are no instructions, some guidelines, procedures and headlines on the role of child-responsors in relation to other treatment providers. They further point out that it is a problem that child care professionals have not been directly connected to patients and relatives. Most of the meetings between patients, relatives, caregivers and caregivers take place without the involvement of child caregivers. Time pressure and production requirements have an impact on child-focused work. So it can still be random and unsystematic. So it's a desire for larger systems and guidelines. The second theme highlighted in this interview is that of the minority children in particular, namely the lack of interpreters in our society — and even less the use of interpreters in our healthcare system. I know that the representative Lise Christoffersen at the national meeting in the Workers' Party in 2011 was given an impression of the ban on children being used as interpreters in the public sector. In 2012, the evening post came up to hear how it had gone. I quote from the notice: ‘Minors are used as interpreters of decision-makers, teachers, hubs and in cases where children are related to convicted persons.’ Although the Workers' Party proposed an interpretative ban, little has been done. At least I intend to give my support to the initiative of Lise Christoffersen and say that we need to do something more about this. It is about focusing on and having at its disposal adequate skills. We cannot continue to have a situation where children are used in the most difficult situations, and are the ones to communicate the heavy and difficult to their parents. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health will address both the question of how we strengthen the professional competence of health care businesses and ensure that we avoid putting children in such a difficult situation, and how we can ensure that children of minority parents are assured that they are the ones who need to convey the most difficult messages that parents get in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2123	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Solberg, for raising an important theme that I believe involves many people in the Chamber. There are several pioneers sitting in this room who have helped to make this a central area of action. It is undoubtedly a great burden for the children when their parents become seriously ill. That is why this government has also taken a number of measures to strengthen their follow-up. Let me start by answering the last question: Should children be interpreters for sick family members? The answer is no. Children shall not be an interpreter for sick family members. As of 2013, I have ordered hospitals to ensure that no children under the age of 18 are used as interpreters in the specialist health service through the so-called enterprise protocol. This is also fixed in the Storing Message See me! An overall drug policy that we are going to debate later this evening. This is independent of the diagnosis of parents or other relatives. Exceptionally, they may be used as an interpreter in acute quotations if there is a risk to life and health. The Directorate for Health has developed a guide for managers and health care staff on communication via interpreters who do not use children as interpreters. A working group chaired by the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion states that children should be required to have specific protection against being used as interpreters in the public sector and to discuss the introduction of a ban. The report shall be followed up by the Minister responsible. So there's a good deal going on in the follow-up to this case. The discussion of health business resources is part of a budget debate. Today I want to inform the Storting about measures for children as a relative of the government. I also want to draw up some future perspectives. The health service's task is to treat patients. Many patients have minor children who are affected by their parents ’ disease. The child’s sense of security, satisfaction and adequate care is strongly linked to the family’s situation. The Soria Moria Declaration states that we should work towards the follow-up and help of children with mentally ill and addicted parents. We have worked widely to achieve that goal and have extended it to all children with ill parents. Children of mentally ill, addicted and seriously ill and injured parents are all vulnerable and vulnerable groups, and it was well described by the interpellant. New measures have been taken in line with Storting’s appropriations. These are more than doubles, from 15 million. SEK in 2007 to 31 million. kr in year. From 2012 to 2013, they increased by another 10 million. kr – a doubling compared to the Right’s alternative budget proposal of 5 million. kr, if there is to be a reference. The review to which the inter-pellant refers is based on a 2010 survey. In the same year, children were given a stronger legal status as a result of changes in the Health Personnel Act and the Special Health Service Act. Children should receive better follow-up when their parents receive health care, regardless of where they live. All health professionals are obliged to contribute to the needs of their children. Health professionals shall not assume responsibility from their parents. As far as possible, parents themselves should take care of children. The task of the healthcare professional is to determine whether the patient has children, whether or not someone takes care of the children, to assess whether the children need follow-up, to provide the patient with information and guidance and to assist the child in providing information or other follow-up if the parents so wish. Hospitals and other specialised health services shall have child-responsible personnel responsible for coordinating and promoting the work of the patient’s children — in other words, a significant increase in this area. I am happy to be able to inform the Storting about a comprehensive work in this field in all health regions. From being ‘invisible children’ before 2007, children who are related are placed on the agenda throughout the country. This has raised awareness and interest in the prevention of children who have sick parents. Follow-up of children gives positive ring-effects to parents when receiving treatment. The concerns are getting smaller, and they feel cared for. There shall be a large reward for hospitals which also include follow-up of siblings to seriously ill children. All public hospitals and other health institutions with agreements with hospitals, including drug services, have child-responsors. The work of setting up child-responsors at private rehabilitation institutions is under way. Then, of course, we have to make this system work, so that people with this responsibility take it seriously. Health professionals have a position that makes it possible to see the children early, and they have experience in helping. Already skilled and engaged health professionals have received a number of tools through networks of expertise, courses and seminars, circulars, e-learning programmes, information material for children, websites, treatment lines and literature. This does not mean that we cannot get even better, and therefore the work must be further developed. We need to ensure an even better dissemination of competences across healthcare. The interaction reform includes children as relatives. The cooperation agreements between municipalities and hospitals refer to procedures for the care of minors in connection with accommodation, stay and outsourcing. Our largest hospital, Oslo University Hospital, has established a council for children as relatives. The interaction perspective and joint responsibility for hospitals and municipalities to care for the children are laid down in that mandate. A good childhood will last for generations. It also does a bad childhood. Year-on-year adulthood plays a major role in the developmental capacity of children. We therefore need to catch children with addicted and mentally ill parents early and take action to prevent children from developing problems themselves. Children who have been subjected to violence, abuse, care failure or have addicted parents are highly likely to develop similar problems themselves. This is a tragic reality. We need to increase our knowledge of children, and we need to strengthen our knowledge of the prevention of drug abuse in children. In 2007, we set up two trials in the North Trøndelag hospital and the West Viken with lowthreshold measures to follow up pregnant women and mothers with drug dependence and mental problems. Children are followed up from birth to school in close cooperation with other services. Projects received positive evaluations and became permanent from 2013. These measures bridge the gap between service provision and serve as support for families. Users seem to be satisfied. Two similar measures will be established in the West and North of Health during the year. We want to put this kind of low-threshold action in place across the country in a few years. I am pleased that a unanimous health and care committee in the setting up of the drug notification supports the work of setting up several such measures. So I'd say we're getting far. However, we need new knowledge. Children who are related from 2011 are a strategic research area in the Norwegian Research Council. Four major research projects will provide new answers. We're going to get knowledge of the meeting between registrars and children as relatives. We will learn more about early intervention, participation and development of skills around children of seriously ill and addicted parents. We need to know how social networks can play a role in families where a parent is or has been affected by cancer. We need to know about the extent of children with seriously ill or addicted parents: who are they, what needs do they have, what help do they get, and what benefits do they get from helping them? Evidence shall be provided of the effect of the legislative changes that strengthen the legal position of children. Six hospitals with large geographical distribution are involved in this research. A nationwide survey of the living conditions of children and young people with drug-dependent parents should provide knowledge of children and young people’s experiences and experiences. How do these children master everyday with their addicted parents? What are the habits of the children? When do they make their own debut with drugs? How do they experience any contact with the auxiliaries? These are important questions we need answers to in order to put forward more targeted actions in the future. Three organisations, BAR — Children of drug users — Adults for Children and the National Children’s Protection Association, make representations and follow-up. The ambition is clear: we must prevent drug problems from being inherited. Finally, once a year I am delighted to meet the healthcare users through a separate contact forum. These meetings provide useful input into the creation of better services, and they underline the user perspective that we have focused on in several key documents. So it is that the UN Children's Convention states that children have the right to evolve, to be heard and last, but not least, to express their own desires. The announcement of good quality and safe services, submitted before Christmas, gave the course for a new user role. This role must also include children. Children with sick parents should feel cared for, seen and heard. They're experts on their own lives. Therefore, we need to listen more closely to their experiences in a form that is adapted to children. I have a strong desire to listen to them, and will therefore invite children to meet on this theme in the different parts of the country where we follow it up, so that we get experience with the services I am responsible for, and they have enjoyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2172	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which confirms that there is a lot of good going on in the follow-up of children as relatives in recent years. Still, there are holes and challenges. It is likely that it is a good piece again until all hospitals have child-care professionals responsible. In any case, the reports I receive include: from the Cancer Association, we see that although hospitals are now to be responsible for child care, there are many hospitals that have still not been put in place. And there is, as I said, still a question of unexplained responsibilities associated with this. It also, of course, makes the gap between getting help for family members in connection with hospitalisation and moving to municipalities a challenge. Just this is a rather vulnerable area — the follow-up of children who are at home and who need help at home, not least in the perspective that we now have more outpatient treatment in areas such as drugs and psychiatry, which are, of course, a movement of treatment for these. What I didn't hear so much about was the strategy of the Council of State for the question of interpreters and interpreters. This is a theme that has been around for many years. It is an important minority policy issue. It is a question of raising the quality of interpreting services in Norway, making it available, but also a very clear message that minors should not be used as interpreters. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about the possibilities of implementing what Lise Christoffersen put himself at the head of making a decision, namely, that there should be a ban on using children as interpreters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2181	The representative, Solberg, says there's still a hole, and I think she's right. I think what we've been doing in the last few years on quite a broad front, and as I've described, is trying to systematize, incorporate legislation, incorporate procedures and, not least, lift competence. I think we have to admit that there is a work that does not come complete with a decision or an ambition. But what we see when we go through experience is that it's a significant development and an increased consciousness. That's why we're going to enjoy it, and be glad that it's not in this room either, I think, is some disagreement that we want this to work in practice as well. As regards the strategy for interpretation, I have basically limited myself in this answer to the interpellant to say that no, children should not interpret. That's what's important. So I think we have to admit, as I said, that in emergency situations – and what is an emergency situation may vary – children may be exposed to having to help with translation, but there has to be a awareness among health professionals about when it comes to a situation where the hospital is going to take over. So I expect, in the light of the mission I have given to health care companies, that they will acquire the necessary interpretative skills to carry out good patient treatment for all those who are being treated in Norway. And here, I think we have to recognize that there might be some sliding transitions. I've at least heard stories about where this works very well, and I've also heard stories where it's not as good as it should be. We will have to follow up as best we can, supervisory authorities and political authorities. Then I am also concerned that this needs to be continued in the primary health service and in the municipalities, where it is clear that my tools to be sure that it is well maintained in all the permanent agencies and in all parts of the nursing and care service are less good than they are in relation to the specialist health service. Then we have to build on the knowledge and commitment that I assume can also be found in Kommune-Norge, in the dialogue with everything from KS to the individual municipality, to get it done. I think this is an area where, as I said, we agree, and where we want the children to be protected, and that their parents, who need health care, will get it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2190	Thanks to the interpellant, who addresses an important theme. I think the Minister of Health and Health gave a good account of what has been done and the direction in which this work is directed. I'm very pleased with the direction the work takes. The representative of Solberg's impatience I share. When we hear what the council says, and the signals he gives, I think this is shared by many. The challenge that Solberg’s representative raised in order to achieve good interaction between the different levels is not only about transferring information from the hospital to the municipality, but it is often just as much about information between the different services within the municipal system and between schools, health services and agencies that deal with both children and adults. Then we separate layers when it comes to how the overall governance of these structures should be. There, I think having public-owned structures and not splitting it up into private solutions, having the public-owned and public-controlled, will provide a much better certainty that one will be able to follow up the most vulnerable groups in our society. There are children one of the most vulnerable groups. So I can say that in the municipality of Kristiansand they have done something very exciting. The municipality itself has taken the initiative to establish child contacts. In Nav in Kristiansand, Nav himself has taken the initiative to establish child contacts, and they have a good cooperation with BarnsBest. Then I have to say that I am very happy that child contacts have now also entered the justice sector. The justice sector is the most neglected area in terms of protecting vulnerable children. We know that 60 pst. Of those in prison, drug use is problematic. There's been a set-up in prison, and it's very good. But we know that very many of their children have a hard time not only having a drug problem to deal with, they also go and carry heavy taboos and shame, which they have in a way that they have parents who are employed. That is why I believe that the effort that has now been made to get a broad perspective on these measures is important. I also believe that one has to cooperate more. Municipal health services and Nav are inside prisons. One must use the competence now acquired to spread the happy message into the justice sector, because it is an area that has many children. They're probably the most invisible children in that sector, but there's a lot of them. They are rarely seen with the problems they carry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2205	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. This is something that moves us and does something with us when we start discussing the issue. Being an adult relative to someone who is affected by a serious illness, or who for other reasons does not work in daily life, can be tough in itself. There are episodes in which we, as adults, reap from our experience in life. We'll try to stay strong. As adults, we can usually put words on things more easily, and we know where to turn. What then when children experience the same thing? Yeah, we can just imagine that. In 2011, the Public Health Institute estimated that 260 000 children have parents with a mental disorder that could go beyond daily functioning. About 70,000 parents have alcohol abuse. In addition, figures from the Cancer Association show that 4,000 Norwegian children experience cancer in a close family every year. 800 children experience that one of the parents dies of cancer every year. It is positive that measures for children who are related are strengthened, but we know that there are still failures. Children must have a happy childhood, they are our future. Therefore, it is important that sufficient resources are put in place to help and support children who experience traumatic and sad events when mother or father no longer acts as parents and caregivers. In the past, the Children’s Ombudsman has, among other things: address the issue of the use of children as interpreters for their parents. In autumn 2010, the Children’s Ombudsman wrote a letter to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. Some facts and quotes from the letter come here: Children are used as interpreters for their parents in parts of the public sector, and this is very negative both for the child and for the case of their parents. Case handlers are not trained in the use of interpreters. Interpreters are too poorly qualified. Interpret access is unstable. The interpreter booking procedures are too poor. Persons in need of interpreters have unqualified persons to interpret. The Children’s Ombudsman wrote: ‘The Children’s Ombudsman wants the authorities to consider imposing a ban on the use of children as interpreters in the public sector. [[...]] This will prevent children from being placed in situations where they are given access to information they should not have had for reasons of age, parental/child relationship and the child’s need for protection.» The Ombudsman also had an expert meeting with young people who had their own experience of being used as an interpreter for parents or other relatives. All of them had been used as interpreters in matters of some sensitive nature or matters they had nothing to do with. Everyone pointed out how negative this would have been for them, and how incredibly important it is with good and qualified interpreters. This means that children should not and should not be used as interpreters for their parents – this is because they are not qualified and because they still have to be allowed to be children. There is too much stress and stress for a child to have to go through something like this. Using children as interpreters in health services can at worst put life and health at risk. One study indicates that every third doctor sometimes or often allows the patient’s children to interpret for their parents. The Cancer Association believes that although interpreters have been agreed during the meeting with their parents, the children may still have to assist their parents in meeting with the public. We see an increasing trend where more young people drop out of school. Common to many of these is that they have or have had difficult family situations to deal with – many of them just because they often have to be with their parents and take care tasks that are far outside and beyond what we, as a welfare society, expect of a child. These are children who have to wait for childhood, precisely because they often have to help their parents in addition to many of these children having to take on much greater responsibility in and for the family. It hurts to know that this is still happening, and that it does, is almost incomprehensible. Therefore, this theme needs to be raised and given a much stronger priority in the future. We simply don't have the money and time to wait any longer. These are children who deserve a much better start in their lives, where, as a society, we need to set up and ensure that there are enough interpreting services – including at the country's hospital. There is, but not enough. These are today's great heroes who have not yet been seen and taken seriously. Now, on behalf of all these children, I hope that action will be shown. Children deserve to be children and did not have to wait for their childhood. If this continues to happen, I hope that the pressure will be put on the use of interpreting children to stop immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2259	I agree with the Council of State that there is a lot of good work going on in health care, but that there are still some challenges. There are many children in Norway, many of whom have been involved, who live with heavy care tasks and duties as relatives of their parents or siblings. The law on children related to health professionals and the Special Health Service Act of January 2010, as the Council of State had already stated, but it is probably premature to have a full overview of the experience gained. But it is in any case certain that much heavy responsibility rests on children who have mentally ill parents, addicts and somatically ill parents. We've recently met people with deadly diseases like ALS and cancer, and where children are related, and are about to have a father or a mother die in the near future. Such a situation must have stood up to understand what it involves and how it is experienced. Many children get good help and follow-up by a child psychologist, through a health center and school and other adults in a family or group of friends, but too many do not get it. The research network in Children'sBest contributes a lot of knowledge in the field of children as a relative. They point to the important challenges, and what I have noticed in particular is the need for more competence development and resource deployment in the primary health service. The specialist health service has put in place a system of child-responsive staff, and in the outpatient and somatic wards of hospitals several sites are now working to build capacity to meet the needs of children when parents are affected by disease. The research network particularly points to this in the book Children as a dependant, lack of competence and alertness to the same needs in primary health services. In the municipalities, the vast majority of addicted, mentally ill and somatically ill patients live their daily lives. It has become clear to me that there is a great need to build up both the capacity and competence of local health services and health centres so that the children concerned, in kindergarten and school, can also benefit from such competence. Young people, especially in families with a minority background, take a heavy responsibility and have care responsibilities both for parents and for sick siblings. It's very important to me to read the research network's stories about young girls who, over the years, had taken on large and heavy care tasks for siblings in families with immigrant backgrounds. Health professionals and municipal service providers were aware of the heavy tasks, but had not given sufficient information about the support and relief schemes that exist and could have remedied the situation. According to ChildrenBest, there are no studies on children related to minority families in Norway. This is an area that needs to be taken seriously and that needs to get more focus and resources in the years to come. I have had many strong meetings with seriously ill people, both as relatives, as health workers and politicians. What's common is that they doubt that the children are suffering from their parents' disease. Several have pointed to the need to build up the municipal auxiliaries — often in interaction with specialist health services. Psychological assistance for children with severe diagnosis is psychosocial support that can be crucial to tackling the challenges of everyday life, and not least to preparing children for the challenges that come after a parent is dead, and through grief and reorientation for the future. The right has proposed permanent psychologists in the municipalities. I think that could help to strengthen the professional environment and expand the competence and capacity of the primary health service. In all life’s crises when sickness or accidents occur, the whole family is affected. In many of these families, there are small children and very often young people as well. These children have the right to be met by a health care system that has knowledge, insight and resources to follow them up. Finally two words about this with interpretation. Yes, it is very difficult for children to interpret their parents. But we also have to think that it can be very difficult for parents to be interpreted by their children. It's about the integrity of the parent, and I think that's also a perspective we have to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2274	In a book called Mom no longer picks up the phone, describes a girl named Christina, what it's like to live with a mother with a serious cancer. She was nine years old when the mother had breast cancer. She writes about how she keeps the mask to the school, the psychologist – which she also got – and the environment to spare Mom, and about the fear that child protection would come and take her away, about the fear of being bullied because there are still stories that cancer is contagious. There are many thousands of children living in a situation where parents are ill in different diseases. Many have safe families with many caregivers, many of whom can be relied upon. It's not that there was just something that existed in the old days. I don't think it was that good to be young because the parents were sick in the old days. I think it was much worse then. There are many who have good families and many to rely on today. It is clear that some people are involved in the role of taking responsibility – as others have said – for both their parents and other siblings, and perhaps also have to be interpreters, which is a completely unacceptable role for a child and for parents, as was said. But there are also many other agencies that are in contact with these children, such as kindergartens, schools, school-time arrangements and the health sisters. It is extremely important that these institutions are very aware of this. I know that the Cancer Association has put a supervisor to the schools – to the teachers – about how to talk to children, how to organise a job to receive children who experience different types of crises. It's probably awful to have a parent who has a somatic disease, but I think it's hard for us to fully assess how it works when it's about, for example. These children. Then there's going to be an extra amount of shame in it, because it's very hard to talk about. It is extremely important that we not only enable health care to see these children and care for their interests, but also enable all the others who are responsible for young people in everyday life to see this and to be able to stand up and help be supportive, so that the child is allowed to be a child or a youth at least for the most part of the day. I also want to point out some of the peer work that some youth organisations organised in the Young People with Disabilities are doing. It can be about support functions between young people who are ill, but also for those who are related or siblings of the sick. I think it's very important because the peer work has a dimension in itself that professional care cannot replace. We were with the Nord-Trøndelag Committee not very long ago and visited what is the Ambulatory in Health Mid-Norway. It's an offer for families at risk, where the children are from 0 years to 6 years old. That kind of work is also very important, because then you can catch these kids very early, make sure that there is a network around them, and make sure that you have the confidence of those who have drug problems in this case, that the health care system and the auxiliaries are there for them. It's a great system where you can just call in or send a text message and get help when it's bad. I think we're going to get incredibly much longer if we can do it this way. Everyone understands this in the case of a heart attack, but if psychologically heavy illness strikes abruptly, or it's about drugs, probably the acute situation for these children is at least as frightening. Then it's incredibly important that you know that there are some adults that can be contacted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2293	Thank you, Mr Solberg, for addressing an important theme. Children are vulnerable, and especially vulnerable to parents or other close relatives with care become seriously ill. We need to recognise that the health care system has not been busy enough with children as a relative. It has not been understood as the health service's primary responsibility. It has been too random when this has been recorded, many times it has probably been fine even if the health care service has not been involved. Others have stood up and taken responsibility — close to family, neighbours, health-seekers, schools or kindergartens, because the child has received the help he needs. But not always, there are too many stories about children who suffer from their parents' illness, their parents' drug abuse, and who have experienced great care failure. Caring has often been mirrored; the child or the youth has become a caregiver; it is the child as an example. must have parents in bed, who are careful to take proper medicine, or do not rush or harm themselves. That's not how a child should have it. In Norway, we spend a lot of money on health care, both in hospitals and in municipalities. We must be able to expect that the professionalised health care system will take responsibility for the entire human being, not just for the isolated disease. Of course, it should be routine to monitor the responsibility of people with serious and chronic diseases. Of course, health professionals should take action to protect children if they need them. This responsibility applies equally to staff at the local medical office as to the specialist in the hospital. It applies to all health professionals. In 2009, the size decided on changes in health professionals and the law on specialist health services just to meet the needs of minor children as relatives. Today, health professionals are required by law to contribute to the information and necessary follow-up of minor children of patients with mental illness, drug dependence or serious illness. The law has also been amended so that mandatory information can be provided to collaborators unless the patient opposes it. In addition, all health institutions are required to have adequate child-responsible personnel with the right skills. The Health Directorate has also recently issued circulars dealing with the new legal destinations. These guidelines indicate that there should be a low threshold for health professionals to initiate investigations into the needs of children for information and follow-up. So children don't have to show symptoms until the laws take effect. The guidelines also state that, in acute situations, it is always necessary to clarify who is caring for the child or children and whether cooperation with other services and the local auxiliaries is necessary. It also applies to acute somatic disease. Often, the other parent may need to be cared for for for a short or longer time. My experience is that it's not as simple. I want to take up a personal experience. I became acutely ill and had surgery while I had very small kids. I felt that I was so sick that I couldn't take care of my kids at home, but I didn't get any help from the public for it. We had to solve it by my husband taking vacations in order to be able to take care of the smallest. And then I want to be clear that it's not the case that's my biggest problem, but it might show that when we don't get it in the simple cases, we might understand that the difficult cases aren't being treated correctly. This is mainly about securing the dishes for children of drug users, parents with severe mental illness or other chronic serious illness. We know, for example. that there are between 50,000 and 150,000 children in Norway living with parents at risk of alcohol consumption. Too many of these aren't discovered when illness and addiction develop with parents. It's also nice to camouflage, when family doesn't know about it. As you can see, it's easier with an acute disease that there's no taboo to talk about. So I think it's especially important to make sure that the community health service is held responsible here – the permanent, midwife, the health sister, the school health service – because when you are admitted to a hospital, the surroundings wake up. One can go for years as quite ill in the municipal health service without the environment knowing how it really is with the child living in the situation. So finally, the debate that children are used as interpreters. I am pleased that the Minister of Health so cashy refuses that we should accept that children must be interpreted for their parents in the event of illness. I totally agree with that. And then I want to stress that it's problematic at all that family is an interpreter for their neighbors, whether it's a man or a girlfriend, especially if you suspect that there might be a situation where there might be a matter of power in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2320	I would like to thank the participants in the debate for many good contributions and pleasant feedback that the interpellation has been taken up. It underlines an important point, namely that this is a topic on which a broad political majority has been involved for many years in Norwegian policy. It is therefore important that we also see that we are able to follow this up. Because that's the way in a discussion about what we're going to do about prevention, that maybe the most important thing we're going to remember is that children have only one childhood, and that what's happening in your childhood is among the things that determine whether you have risk factors for very many of the problems adults have -- it's psychological problems, the tendency to take drugs, or just mastering their own lives. So the fact that we can raise our health system qualitatively to see children in a better way becomes incredibly important in a preventive perspective, considering other things that can happen later on. There are still a lot of ways to go, because although there has been a lot of commitment and the legislation is better in place than it has been in the past, there are probably significant differences in how good it is to follow up. That's why it's important to be careful that this consideration also comes into play in new strategies, and not just becomes a side-by-side issue, but actually comes into the ordinary. To the extent that Nav makes strategies for its activities in the areas where we, for example, are concerned. Now to have a new cancer strategy, it is important that we also have this perspective – i.e. that we constantly take care that children have a place. My experience is that it has to be repeated many times in order for us to experience that it happens outside. But then there are many positive examples. To me, the Cancer Association has chosen to bring out Frogn Municipality as an example in an area where systematic and good assistance is provided at interdisciplinary level. It's because they have good routines to deal with children of cancer parents. But the evaluation there says, among other things: the need to establish procedures in hospitals for — within the rules of professional secrecy — reporting to, for example: health centre for follow-up when cancer has children and needs follow-up in retrospect. In several areas, we need to make this interaction work better, so that the children don't miss the road. For many years, intoxication and psychiatry have been the themes on which we have stood most strongly, because it is stigmatizing – among these are some of the most heartbreaking human stories we have seen of some of the children who have grown up in russified families without the great community having seen them. But I have the hope of having more force on this: to ensure that the competences of children are disseminated better, but also to ensure that we see children, especially in minority environments, on which it is a subfocused, or which have less access to many of the normal solutions we have, better, for example. in the case of interpretative situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2335	Thank you again for the inter-pellant, and thank you for a good debate. Initially, when we talk about the rights of children with seriously ill parents, I want to recognise all the good work that is done in a family, which in any case will be the ones that are tighter when the doors are closed and you are in the private sphere, and also what was taken up at the end here by the representative Toppe: the local environment – who sees the people, who live closely on and suddenly become aware that it is a problem – and their fellow human responsibility to tread. First: In the annual report for 2010, which we reported in 2011, it is therefore stated that all hospitals have child-responsors. I assume that's the case, and we'll of course follow up and check that it also has reality, and competence. Then it is that what the representative Sjøli pointed out very well when she spoke about competence capacity in the municipal health service, underlines the importance of the opportunities offered by the cooperation reform. I am, when I travel around the country and see the places where we get good deals between municipalities and hospitals, turned off that it is an arena to cooperate and find this follow-up from one service to the other. Our goal is that you, as a patient and user, should not experience the distinction, that you go from one level of administration to another. So it's going on. I don't think we'll be done with it in just a few weeks and months, but we see positive moves. So it's that minorities are an important group we're going to follow closely. In this life-cycle survey on parents with drug problems, particular attention should be paid to those — Sami children, children in minority families, who experience drug problems. Then we get this better on the map – more knowledge, more documentation. As far as this is concerned with interpreters, I would just like to repeat that we expect that through the corporate protocol it has been taken into account that it should be interpretation and that children should not have that role. We also need to follow that up in our different supervision. This has been a good debate, where I feel that we as a healthcare service have come a long way in a few years. Some formal decisions, procedures and guidelines have been put in place, but everyone in this room knows that practice is not automatically translated into what we want. But it too is on the right track, and therefore I hope this debate can help to give impetus and commitment to following up this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2352	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2366	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, right, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 10 minutes of the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2375	I am very pleased, as the rapporteur for the drug notification, to be able to establish – on behalf of an overall health and care committee – that the overall objective of drug policy is drugfree. It's about human dignity. It is about solidarity with all those affected by the negative consequences of drugs, both directly and indirectly, and it is about protecting those most vulnerable. It is an overall committee that continues to seek restrictive policies on alcohol and drugs. There is a significant potential for prevention in the drug field, and an overall committee is also established. The size of the population agrees that strict regulation is required to limit the harm caused by drugs. The main instruments of Norwegian alcohol policy are effective and must remain stable. This joins a broad majority, all parties except the Advance Party. I am pleased that an overall committee determines a zero vision for overdose deaths: anyone who dies of overdose is one too much. The majority of the Committee, i.e. government parties and the Christian People's Party, state that the most important thing to do is to reduce the total consumption of alcohol by the majority of the population. The Committee refers to studies which demonstrate that when total consumption falls, consumption also falls among those who drink the most. In fact, the large costs, social and individual, come from the majority of alcohol use. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that we need to prevent drug problems by reducing availability and demand. We have to act on the basis of knowledge: we know what works, and we have to be willing to use the means we have. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority, i.e. government parties and the Christian People's Party agree that it is important to focus on advice from the police when granting sales and donations. But for the Christian People's Party, it is disappointing that neither the government nor any of the government parties have so far been willing to reduce the turnout time to 5.00 p.m. 2nd@item: inlistbox SIRUS research clearly shows that reduced turnout times are an effective tool to reduce violence, and thus a majority of the population support tipping time. 2nd@item: inlistbox Minister of Health and Health Gahr Støre, in Stortinget earlier this spring, announced that he would follow closely what the consequences of different giving time is. The Christian People's Party, however, stands alone in the setting of now reducing the turnout time to 9.00 p.m. 02, in line with advice from the police and professionals. But SV's national meeting changed the party's policy in this area as late as yesterday, in line with police, professionals and the Christian People's Party. So I expect more than six votes in favour of proposal No. 46, when we get there in the voting. Together with the government parties, Christian People's Party refers to the 2009 Blue Cross report, Alcohol that sells newspapers – newspapers that sell alcohol. We point to the extent of the alcohol review in Norwegian media, as well as the fact that much of the review is unilaterally positive and sales-oriented and makes extensive use of the advertising tools in editorial terms. It is important to counteract such an impact on attitudes. We are therefore pleased that the Department announces that the advertising code will be reviewed. We are also pleased that the government will assess the implementation of more appropriate response options in the event of regulatory breaches, such as: infringement fee. Norway has a long tradition of public and voluntary programmes to influence attitudes to drugs. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that a total accumulation underlines that meeting places and leisure venues where children and young people meet are to be drug free and safe. An overall committee points to the important non-alcoholic zones created by teams and organisations, and the important work of non-governmental organisations contributes in this area. We underline the importance of the presence of non-alcoholic zones and ask for this work to be strengthened. My good colleague, Laila Davøy, has told me about a book about the history of the Self-collective and the philosophy of work. The book is called Human Behind the Russian. It gives thought-provoking stories about individuals and some important points like seeing the whole human being, which I think we should definitely take along. In any case, the book convinced me that knowledge of the relationship between addiction and growth history, relationships and other mental challenges must have consequences and be translated into practice by targeting both addiction and the human being behind addiction. It is so important that drug treatment is capable of seeing and meeting the link between dependence and the disadvantages. I am convinced that treatment attempts with a focus on drug dependence may fail as long as there is no proper grip on the stories and the flaws that lie in the shadow of addiction. The complex and complex cannot meet with simplified and fragmented solutions. Drug addicts are not a homogeneous group and treatment needs vary. An overall committee emphasises the importance of each patient receiving the appropriate treatment provision, whether long-term treatment is needed at the institution, shorter treatment or outpatient treatment, and that a new and overlapping follow-up offer is always clear after treatment. Drug abusers and their relatives need a solid level of quality and capacity in treatment and aftercare. We have to have a new and obliging escalating plan on the ground, setting an overall opposition in the setting. Another development of the opposition parties points to is the unfortunate twist away from daily places towards more outpatient treatment. We look with concern at the decline in long-term sites that has taken place in recent years. We believe it is wrong to cut in long-term places. There is today a great deal of pressure on long-term treatment and unacceptable waiting times. The user organisation Marborg said this at the one hearing we had: Never have so many been treated so little. The long waiting times and the long waiting lists show that the government does not use the available capacity and that is necessary for the long-awaited sick people to get it. The Christian People’s Party and the other opposition parties therefore propose to increase the appropriations for drug treatment in several of the entries in the 2013 budget. For the Christian People's Party, the setting of ideal actors is one of the most important. We are pleased that a Joint Committee recognises the important role of non-profit actors in the drug field for many years, as key actors in treatment and rehabilitation, as knowledge intermediaries, as entrepreneurs, as spokespersons for different user groups and as social actors – either the main drug is alcohol or drugs. The majority and the government agree that the ideal organisations are at the heart of the drug field, and that their goal is to influence policy in the future to the same extent as they have done so far. The challenge, however, is that these fine words must be shown in practical policy. Something positive has happened. Some ideals have long-term and ongoing agreements. A cooperation agreement has been concluded on health and welfare services, such as: shall make it possible to provide for longer-term care. But still much remains before the ideals have good enough conditions, in the view of the Christian People's Party. We therefore propose, inter alia: that ongoing agreements are always to be concluded with non-profit actors through direct negotiations. We suggest that the ideal actors participate in the further planning processes of the drug field. The entire Committee requests that the entire capacity of private and non-profit-making treatment arrangements with healthcare undertakings, not only the volume covered by the agreement with the healthcare undertaking, be made available for free hospital choice. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party proposes that the basic support for non-specialist care measures be increased to two thirds of the cost of a treatment site. The slogans of the Christian People's Party are «Human World in the Center». The Russian policy is a natural and important part of our human dignity focus. All people are as much worth, and we must never lose faith that abstinence, a new beginning and a good life are possible for all people. I take this up with me the proposals of the Christian People's Party are co-sponsors, and the proposals we are promoting alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2411	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2414	Today we handle the drug message that has been named See me!. It is important to see the individual, both drug addicts and not least children and those related to drug addicts. The noise field is wide and includes a lot. There are a lot of people who have an involvement in drug policy, and we've got a lot of good input. We sometimes get different advice from different professional environments within the field. It might show that there's no fasit with two lines below. But it is good that we get the debates, because in that way we find the good solutions. There are many areas in the Communication where there is unanimity in the Committee. I think we have had good cooperation on the communication within the committee, and I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur for that cooperation. The government’s work on the paper is based on important input, professional input and consultation opinions from a number of actors in the field of drugs. The message has five focus areas: prevention and early intervention efforts for relatives and for passive drinking increased skills and improved quality help for heavily dependent — and reduction of overdose deaths interaction at all stages; It is necessary to note that there is a communication covering the whole of drug policy, not just those relating to drugs. Very often, it is precisely drugs that get a lot of attention when we talk about drug policy. This Communication covers both alcohol, addictive drugs, drugs and doping drugs. Sometimes when we hear the opposition, you can get the impression that nothing within the drug field is good. I do not agree with that. Of course, we have some challenges, but basically we have a drug policy that works. In Norway, we use little alcohol and drugs compared to most other European countries. It is also very good that Norwegian 15- to 16-year-olds are among those who use the least drugs in Europe. It is important to ensure that we stay at this level, even when these young people get older. This shows that there's a lot that works, and that we've done the right things and used the right tools, that is. that we have extensive use of regulatory instruments that embrace the whole population and prevent drug problems. So the message is that we'll continue with what's good and that works, while we have to get better at what's not good enough. In working on the Stortinget Communication, we have conducted a wide-ranging consultation and received many good input from strong voices. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for their good meetings and constructive input. It is very useful and absolutely necessary when dealing with such matters. There have been many positive input into the message’s focus on prevention and on drug addicts. But not all have been equally satisfied. Negative feedback has mainly been related to the multi-disciplinary specialised treatment (TSB) and appears to be underfocused on treatment by social professionals. Therefore, I am pleased that the Minister of Health in the mission document of regional health companies has said that there should be a review of the capacity of the TSB and that the need for an increase should be assessed. I understand that health south-east is already assessing the need and that they are assessing whether to increase capacity. That's good. As important as capacity is the quality of treatment. That is why I am pleased that the Health Directorate should compare both quality and costs between public and private/ideal drug institutions. We have taken seriously the signals from the hearings and from meetings with both the professional community, institutions and individuals, such as, among other things. Kenneth Arctander Johansen. They have all expressed concern that social professionals have not been given sufficient space in the TSB. That's why it's good that we get a review of the quality and content of the treatment. For those with a long drug addiction, it is important that they get good help in mastering life. Very often, personal causes are behind drug addiction. Then they have to have tools to deal with it, and it has to be part of the treatment. In order to achieve both abstinence and to continue to be drug-free, many people need assistance to build new family relationships, clean up old debt, and many have to be given the opportunity to rebuild their social skills. It is also important that housing and activities are in place when treatment is completed. Otherwise, the way back to addiction is often short. A small part, but significant to those involved, is damage to teeth after long-term drug use. Today, you are covered by the costs of dental treatment as a drug addict, but if you become drug-free or go to outpatient treatment, you are not covered by the scheme. We are now asking the government to extend the scheme to include those who have become drug free, so that they can complete their dental treatment. Good treatment is important. At the same time, good offers are needed for those who continue to live with their dependence. We have under 300 overdose deaths every year in Norway. The number is too high, and we have to look at how we can simplify it. This is about people, it's about life that can be saved. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health is willing to open up heroin addicts to smoking heroin in the injection room. Of course, this alone is not the solution to overdose deaths. But if we can get someone to smoke instead of injecting, it could help reduce overdoses. At the same time, they will be offered health care in the same way as those injecting it in the injection room today. One will then also be able to inform the injection room about the benefit of smoking instead of injecting. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Right, asks the Government to implement measures to encourage users to smoke instead of injecting heroin. I consider the health minister's proposal to be a follow-up to it. In view of the fact that the right, together with the government parties, is asking the Minister for this, it has been particularly important to hear the reactions of the representative Bent Höie — from the Right — in this case, with accusations that the Minister of Health has wanted to legalize the smoking of heroin, and that there is an easy play in drug policy experiments. Let it be quite clear: it's not about legalization. This is to take over the real situation that exists out there today for many injecting drug users. If this proposal can save some from overdose deaths, we'll try it. I am very pleased that we have a responsive and committed health minister who is concerned about the drugs field. He's taken the signals from several people in the drug field and got the Health Directorate to re-assess Naloxon nasal spray for overdose use, and now he's proposing a project to try it out. The use of doping agents appears to be increasing. Young people in general are negative to doping, but there is much evidence that doping drugs are easily accessible and widely available in some settings. That is why I am pleased that doping is part of the message, and that we are proposing a ban on the acquisition, possession and use of doping agents. A prohibition is never the answer alone. That's why it's good that the government in this year's budget has spent $4 million. kr to Health South-East to further develop the offer to persons who have been harmed by the use of doping drugs, and to invest in research, information and prevention. Good treatment and rehabilitation are important and necessary and should continue to be developed for the benefit of individuals. Nevertheless, it is very best that we can manage to prevent drug dependence. This applies both to the individual and to the dependants. That is why we are still going to have good regulatory arrangements that help to keep consumption down. Although we drink less than the average in Europe, alcohol consumption has increased significantly in recent years. Many children grow up in a family where parents have a worrying alcohol consumption. It is therefore quite surprising to hear that the Progress Party, which is so concerned with treating and rehabilitating, then rejects all proposals for prevention. We know from research that increased availability increases consumption. There will then be something special when the Advance Party not only wants to lower the taxes on alcohol, but they also want 18-year-olds to be able to buy alcohol around the clock, in the grocery store and in the outdoors. The progress party is betting on repair, but is not as willing to participate in measures we know seems addictive. Such measures are often less popular, and it may not be so interesting for the Progress Party. That's very regrettable. For us, these things are linked. A comprehensive drug policy must have a broad view, both of treatment, rehabilitation and not least of prevention. At the end of the day, I would like to say how pleased I am that we have a good big message about the government's intoxication, which has become even better after the treatment in Stortinget. When we had visited the street people before Christmas, they were concerned that the message should be called "Hear me!" I hope many people out there will know each other in just that – that we politicians have listened to good recordings. That is why I would like to thank all those organisations, trade unions and individuals who have shown commitment to the process and have given us valuable input to ensure that we now have a good, comprehensive and forward-looking drug policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2481	Let me first make the hall aware that the post I'm going to make now, it was really Kari Kjenaas Kjos who was going to keep. She was unfortunately having to leave the hall. Finally, it came, the hoarding message about rush. Russ and addiction destroy so many lives, take away their little children from their parents, and take away their parents from their children. Health ministers have come and gone for the last eight years, and they have all complained that drug policy is down-priority. The National Audit Office has pointed this out and the Health Authority has pointed it out. Everyone knew that, but nothing happened. When the drug reaction finally came, we did not find the recommendations of the Stoltenberg Committee again. We did not re-found recordings from organisations and trade unions from all over the country, and it was not invited to a cross-political agreement to finally lift the care of the drug – once and for all. So what did we actually get? We received a message that describes the realities in a good way – nothing new, but a good description. And we got some goals, but they're not followed up with real and effective measures. Fortunately, we have a strong opposition with intent to change. And fortunately, soon it will be a choice. When the Stoltenberg Committee presented its report, I was invited to the Landsföreningen Against Substance Abuse, which wanted me to give a lecture on the content of the report and my analysis of it. The hall was full of relatives, i.e. mostly mothers. They thought that if this were introduced, we would really notice a difference, an improvement, and they wondered if I had faith that this would be introduced. I looked beyond the hall and the assembly and desperately wondered what to answer. I saw that these people so deeply needed me to give them a hope. But I also knew in my heart that it would be a lie to give them this hope. A government that spends so much time and energy pushing on the issue, really doesn't want real change, I thought. I knew there and then that the proposals of the Stoltenberg Committee would end up in the well-known drawer. So I gave them an answer like this in the middle -- honestly that I couldn't know, and that it was important to have hope. Just before the summer vacation of 2012, this hope died. The noise message does not follow up the thinking of the Stoltenberg Committee. The government is completely turning its back on its own appointed selection, and one can wonder what the purpose of this selection really was. The Progress Party thinks the Stoltenberg Committee is very well meeting both in its description of reality and against which action needs to be taken. The party of progress was so pleased with the approach that we are today promoting 21 of the 22 proposals of the committee. The Progress Party therefore supports the Stoltenberg Committee all the way, with the exception of the only proposal contained in this report with its own, namely the proposal on the distribution of heroin. Here's the Progress Party in line with the government minus SV, which has turned. When the message was presented, I thought it had got a beautiful title – look at me! The name kind of offered something new. The drawer was therefore extra big. At the Storting annual meeting with the addicts, the Progress Party received another confirmation that the message was poor. The addicts gave us the message and said that it was not enough to be seen, they also had to be heard. They asked that the message be reconstructed, that the next time there were concrete proposals for changes and improvements, and they asked that it be named 'Hear me!' The Progress Party supports this view. But not only to humiliate from this pulpit, I'll also talk a little bit about the few things that are good with the message. The first is doping. A long-term focus on challenges, hazards and deaths related to doping has come from relatives in particular. I am pleased that the government is now looking at this in a drug addiction and that they have sent out at the hearing proposals to deal with the sale, use and storage of doping in line with drugs. The second concerns the desire to have a greater focus on relatives and to be co-dependent, both to view the relatives as a resource and important associates, and also to see that being related brings ill health, great concerns and reduced quality of life. And the third, to establish a medical speciality in addiction and addiction – an important and proper grip, we seem to be in the Progress Party. But the main problem with this long-awaited drug problem is that it gives no hope to those who are in trouble today. All the tools you had have been removed. Both the priority of specialist health services and the earmarked funds for municipalities have been removed. Those who are close to the environment see this every day. Good treatment sites will be gone. Long-term luck spots with different approaches and philosophy have been closed down, and it has happened every year in recent years. Wearing in diversity and competence. The addicts are the losers. In 2003, when the Stortinget adopted the Rusreform – launched in 2004 – and transferred county responsibility for drug treatment to the State, it was a condition that the social content and diversity of treatment services should be maintained, as well as that the health profession should be given more space. For many of the institutions closed down, the main focus has been personal change, growth and development in a responsible community, all of which have to contribute according to their capacity and assumptions. This is drug treatment of the highest quality and cannot be replaced by medicines and nurses. The collectives have been able to demonstrate results of between 50 and 70 pst. flu-free after completion of treatment. Now this treatment model is sacrificed at the expense of drug treatment, the shortest possible duration of treatment and the higher health professional factor. The time of the clinics has returned, and factors such as peer work, mastering and cohesion are downgraded. In the collective tradition, after-protection is a high priority. But this is a municipal task, and the state-owned health care companies do not want to ensure post-protection by financing it. The protection of the municipalities is very fragmented, arbitrary and too little. Individual plans are rarely used. Even I have several addicts who I help in my spare time, and I am directly provoked by some of the comments that the government parties' comments describe. There is talk of whole treatment courses, arranged and tailored for the individual – swollen sentences and a self-satisfaction that is absolutely incredible. Unfortunately, the debate will also bear the same mark. But reality is then to those degrees away from these fine words, and I think that's the main problem with the whole message. If you don't want to recognize reality, you don't go any further. Angelica is one of those who experience this very strongly. She is 22 years old, totally unnetworked, failed by her own and public in childhood, failed by child protection in youth, and now finally failed by all. She's a girl who's been subjected to sexual, mental and physical abuse, and the only thing that's been publicly involved is what any decision will cost, and who's going to take the bill. There is no participation, and medical statements and psychological statements do not help. Here's the money that's missing, and the money that's missing, so Angelica's going to be moved again, 17 times after the child protection took her out of her home. Angelica is desperate, unhappy and afraid, and many say they very much want to help, that she deserves it now. But those who can do something do nothing, including the Minister of Health. Her chronicle in the Newspaper has triggered an enormous commitment, and I want to take the opportunity to thank for the fact that, after all, there are many people out there who care. Although it doesn't help Angelica concretely, it does well to get so many encouraging and well-meaning greetings. The Progress Party promotes more than 40 concrete proposals, each of which is important, and which, overall, would make a significant difference for individuals such as Angelica, given saved suffering and saved lives, and in the long term given great savings. You must then to harvest. The Progress Party is very concerned about prevention. Discovering children’s difficult everyday lives early and taking proper and coherent action immediately will be crucial if we want to reduce the number of newly recruited drug addicts. Angelica’s story is a good example of this missing. A survey of why one started to rush shows that the absolute sibling has worn out somehow: difficult family relationships, ADHD, reading and writing difficulties and bullying. The list is long. But in common with these people is that they were not seen, that they felt different, and that life was bad. The Urine project, or the youth contract that some municipalities have called it, is a good example of actions that have produced results. Here, too, it was found that there was a underlying reason why one had rushed, and gave the municipalities a unique opportunity to avert addiction by providing assistance for what was bad. The Progress Party has therefore repeatedly proposed that the government work actively for this project. Although several government governments have fronted this as a good measure in the media, it has been actively voted down in this Chamber. It is difficult to deal with one policy in the media, but it is not implemented in this room. Last out was the nasal spray Naloxon, which the Progress Party has proposed, and which the government has rejected. During the examination of the drug notification in the Committee, the Progress Party reiterated proposals for trial projects on the distribution of this spray, which can both save lives and be an important contribution to avoiding brain damage. The parties to the Government reject this again. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health is doing well to launch this as a new measure during the debate on smoking heroin a short time ago, and the Council of State repeated it in the evening news the same day. So what's the government's point of view? Does that mean that the government parties are going to vote for today, or is this something that you just talk about, but you don't want to do? There are so many proposals from the Progress Party that could have been debated long and well, but my experience with eight years of red-green government is that debate does not give people hope or help. There is little help in making proposals for housing grant schemes when the proposal is defeated. There is little help in proposing that treatment services should be provided immediately after detoxification, when the government does not want it. It does not help to propose measures to ensure that drug addicts are granted their right to an individual plan, when government parties do not think this is important. And finally, when you're not interested in such basic elements coming into place, everyone who's been in this field understands that there won't be any improvement after decisions have been made on this matter today. I regret that, and this is a pity for the Progress Party. The noise message to which I had such great expectations, will not help those who need help now. However, I am taking up here and now the proposals that the Progress Party alone or with other parties has promoted in this matter. In addition, I would like to inform you that the Progress Party will support the following proposal from the Left: the proposals No. 53, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 66 and 69. - For Kari Kjönnaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2560	The representative of Morten Stordalen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2563	I want to start with what is positive with the staging message and the setting. A review of what has been a long-term concern for many years, namely the creation of a medical speciality in the field of drugs. It has been ready for a long time and just waiting to be promoted in this message. I hope now that this will be done. The message also has a emphasis on seeing relatives, who are good and who are clear in the message. At the same time, the Communication addresses proposals for a ban on doping. That's good. The message also gives a general status over the field. It is now almost ten years since the Stortinget adopted Rusreform II, which meant that addicts became patients with the same patient rights as other patients, and one of which was clear that the State should have the primary responsibility for treatment and rehabilitation by anchoring the county institutions of that time into the social services law, specialist health services institutions were enshrined in the Special Health Services Act. There was a marked shift in policy when it came to the status of addicts, carried out under the centre-right rule. What one could have experienced today was that this staging message had been a new, historic shift for this field through the fact that one today had dealt with a escalating plan for the drug field that pointed out the way forward. I'm afraid it's not. Within the drug field, one person has been waiting for this message for more than ten years, which could have been a marked start to an escalation of treatment provision for this patient group. Instead, today’s notification and its treatment will appear as a parentheses. It is so obvious that even the new Minister of Health had to answer the first questions in this area that he and the government needed more knowledge in the area of what was going on, and the representative Wenche Olsen also used much of his intervention to describe areas where the government needed to develop new policies. Then you can wonder what the government has spent the last three years on, when it was precisely these questions that should have been answered in this message. Then I will go over to describe the challenge picture that the message does not respond to. The first is the content of multidisciplinary specialised treatment, an area that was actually established in the framework of Rusreform II, but which nevertheless has not had any very clear political treatment in terms of content. What we are now seeing is that health businesses are actually changing their content by reducing treatment time and reducing the social content of treatment. This is contrary to what the Stortinget thought in the context of Rusreform II, where the Stortinget was clear that the institutions should strengthen their health skills, but that it should not go beyond multidisciplinary social rehabilitation. But health businesses ignore it, and one reduces the treatment time and the content of the treatment, without the government seemingly wanting to do anything about it. One sees that we still have about two and a half thousand drug addicts in line for treatment. At the same time, good treatment institutions are being laid down. The right considers that a significant change is necessary for this patient group, and that change is about giving free treatment options, so that these patients can actually have the opportunity to choose the treatment institutions that they themselves believe in among those who are officially authorised and that they can use the capacity that is available. Today, if drug addicts choose a different treatment institution from the one they are offered, they move to the back of the queue and risk waiting this year. Everyone understands that by telling motivated addicts that you should come to the institution for which you are motivated, you have to wait this year, there is a great likelihood that the motivation is gone before the treatment offer exists, in reality. Therefore, one of the statistics also shows that there are no patient groups where there is so much disqualification from granting rights to actual attendance at treatment as in this patient group. Another main challenge, of course, is for these patients the transition from specialist healthcare to community services or through Nav. In terms of housing, activity provision, outpatient follow-up and further social follow-up. But for this group, the lack of quality assurance of the transition is life-threatening. We see that the majority of overdose deaths in Norway occur immediately after discharge from a treatment institution or prison. So today's practice is life-threatening for this patient group. This big message does not provide any concrete answers to the challenges, on the contrary. In practice, the government cut off during the down payment, 300 million. in earmarked funds for the municipalities of this patient group, in a situation where municipalities have been given financial incentives through the cooperation reform to give priority to other patients. We also see that a challenge is the content of medically assisted rehabilitation. The growth of medically assisted rehabilitation was the main explanation between 2001 and 2005 that during that period one managed to reduce and halve the number of overdose deaths in Norway. That was positive. Since it has increased the number of overdose deaths again and one has failed to achieve new strategies. However, the failure of that crop was to provide adequate rehabilitation in the medically assisted rehabilitation. The positive thing is that one was able to reduce the number of overdose deaths, but it was so fast that one could not follow it up with a good rehabilitation offer. Nor does it respond to this big message. In practice, there are many fine words in the big message, but in reality one sees that one in this area is going in the wrong direction. The government has removed the rule that health businesses should give priority to drugs and psychiatry more than somatic in each health business every year. We already see the consequences of this through the reduction of drug supply, but not least the reduction of offers for those with a double diagnosis through, among other things. the closure of TEDD here in Oslo. I have never met anyone who is able to see any professional or other reason for this closure. We now also see in the West Viken that offers to this patient group are being built down. For the municipalities, which one should have invested in, one has removed the ear-marked funds. The government parties will today vote against the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposal for an escalation plan in this area. Several institutions have been closed down. Only in the last few months are there plans for the closure of 70 treatment sites. The day today could be a positive brand day for the drug field, where one got the necessary promise through an escalation plan, which this field needs. Instead, it becomes a parentheses in the history. But I hope that a government shift to the autumn may mean that you can start immediately with what is now absolutely necessary in this area, namely a binding escalation plan based on the model of the escalation plan that you have had within psychiatry. The direction of such a stepping-up plan looks through all the joint proposals that the opposition is promoting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2589	The value base of drug policy must be humanism and not moralism. We have to deal with addiction with measures that actually help people who want it, out of dependence. Then we have to dry to put moralism on the shelf. In 2009, more than 5000 referrals were made between NOK 2000 and NOK 10 000 for drug use and possession. How many heavy addicts can handle it? People who are heavily addicted to drugs do not see the light and put off their addiction because they get a fine or go to prison. For this reason, it is good that in the drug report, people with drug problems should be more likely to face health care rather than traditional punishment. The question of criminal responses to minor drug law offences must be about what we can do to prevent drug users from developing or remaining dependent. It is also good that the government warns of an intensification of the fight against overdoses, among other things. a new strategy to reduce overdose deaths. Norway, as is known at overdose levels in Europe, is not a situation with which we can live. Making it less unworthy to live with drug addiction is a proper input into drug policy. It is an important prerequisite for making addiction less taboo and thus easier to seek help for. Needing help for weaning is not like needing help patching a wound. Motivation, energy, support and internal strength are necessary in order to recover. It's hard to maintain this over time, if you don't get help. Therefore, health queues are such a serious problem for these patients and an area we need to be particularly concerned with reducing queues within. Rest addicts don't shout loudly themselves, so we have to shout for them. We must have as vision and aim to terminate the queues. In the 2013 government budget, the government has committed to reduce the waiting time for treatment through an extra-large capacity increase by, among others, anti-seizure treatment. This will provide more help. Because addicts are like all other people: different, we also have to provide a wide range of qualitative services. The non-profit institutions are the key to doing this. Their efforts are essential for drug addicts in Norway to be able to become drug free. This government has facilitated better cooperation with non-profit actors, including: through the cooperation agreement with the voluntary sector. The importance of betting on the ideals we see among other things. in the situation we have in Eastfold today. We need safer frameworks for the good ideal forces, and therefore it is good that Health South-East goes away from misunderstood competition and from long-term agreements. I would encourage all health companies to follow that example. If we're going to help those who are struggling, we can't just bet on repair. We also need to work to reduce the need for treatment. The noise field called for a greater bet on drug prevention, and there is an announcement that it is easy to get behind. We need to move forward in a way that enables us to meet the government's warnings in the drug notification: a gradual introduction of the financial instruments in the drug treatment and mental health cooperation reform. Municipalities have the tools they need to reduce the harm caused by drug dependence when we get this in place. Another important instrument is alcohol policy and donor policy. There are those who are severely affected by the alcohol abuse of others. 90 000 children live with at least one parent who abuses alcohol. We need to do more to discover this and follow up children and young people early, and we need to know more about how these children are doing. For this reason, we will launch a living conditions survey for children with dependent parents. We already know that health centres, kindergartens, child protection and schools are an important part of the support system for children who have difficulties at home. We need to continue our work to strengthen the ability of these important arenas to see and care for the children. When, through the drug notification, we now introduce a regulation with national requirements for responses to drug law offences, we will ensure that there are consequences of drug law offences. By increasing the requirements for monitoring local authorities' premises with the grant, we can catch up on several crimes. Noise policy must also deal with those who have not become addicted, with the many thousands of children living in homes where they feel insecure, with young people who are unable to cope with schooling, and with children who do not get help even if they call for care. Noise policy is much more than drug abuse. There are child protection messages, school messages, kindergarten messages and public health messages. The government's efforts to strengthen kindergartens and child protection are historic, and it is also important for us to be able to catch up with young people who are struggling and help them find ways other than drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2610	Report. St. 30 for 2011–2012 See me! is a good platform for reducing Russian damage in society. It discusses the overall scope of the problem and points to a number of measures that need to be taken to ensure that drug policy is effective. It focuses on preventing and solving drug problems at an early stage. Norway is in favour of statistics on alcohol and drug consumption compared with other European countries. Our restrictive policies are beneficial. Nevertheless, there is great cause for concern when we look at increases in alcohol use in recent years. Alcohol consumption in Norway has increased by 50 pst. of 15 years. Wine consumption is double in 20 years. Alcohol is currently the most widely used drug. The consequences are a social problem. In 2009, 387 people died of prolonged and direct alcohol damage and 285 died of drug overdose. For alcohol, this is almost twice as many as it died in traffic accidents the same year. It is a tragedy that so many young people lose their lives in overdoses and that so many lives are lost because of alcohol. This must change, and we must prevent young people from losing their lives in intoxication. We then need to prevent better, treat more people and increase protection. The noise message announces an increase in competence and quality as a range of bets. I am especially pleased that we have finally established a new specialty in drug addiction and addiction medicine for the lizard. The five-year overdose strategy is also very important. It is positive that harm-reduction measures are continued and that health care is provided instead of punishment. The message is also about doping. The centre party is pleased that the message warns – as we also have in our program – that one will criminalize doping use. These are essential measures that, together with the mobilization against doping announced by the government, can help to prevent doping among young people. Doping needs to be integrated into the work on drug prevention. We need to recover from the Sports Association and Antidoping Norway’s competence in the field. 800000 Nordics are given a year’s supply of anaesthetic medicinal products. Measured by alcohol, addictive medicine is the most common addiction problem in Norway. This message highlights the increasing focus and active responses to the increasing polydrug use of alcohol and pills. This is a very important bet. In recent years, there has been a major focus on healthcare companies’ supply systems within the drug field. There have been questions about health firms turning the treatment away from long-term treatment and drug-free treatment as a goal. Consequently, it was necessary that the undertakings now be asked to review the overall capacity before multidisciplinary specialised treatment. The centre party is concerned that we should continue to have a lack of treatment in the drug field, and that non-profit organisations should have a good framework, in long-term contracts with the public on a quality-based basis. The family is an important resource for those with drug problems. It is positive that the message is so clear that relatives should be taken seriously and are required to provide guidance and advice from the health and care services. It shall include, inter alia: a life support study on dependent and adult children of drug addicts is carried out. This will be the basis for further action, and I look forward to it. In treatment, aftercare and prevention, it is central that in the future we will also facilitate the provision of services for relatives and volunteers. I want to show you what Anonymous Alcoholics do with their rehabilitation program among alcoholics. There's a peer work that the public should want to do even more, in the work with the people for whom this might be relevant. Alcohol is one of the world’s major health problems. The message states that we should still have a restrictive line in terms of opening hours, age limits, advertising and charges. I am pleased that the government is continuing a preventive, solidarity-based drug policy where it is an overarching goal to limit the consumption and harm of alcohol and drugs. The government also announces that it will continue to work towards a high level of alcohol on the international agenda as a health challenge. That's also very good. I could read in our country on Thursday that «the oil fund buys alcohol companies that conquer Africa». Alcohol is the leading cause of death in Africa. I would therefore like to make a clear call in conclusion, even if it is a little on our side: I think we need to continue our solidarity with the alcohol policy abroad. I think the time is overdue for the State pension fund to sell out of the alcohol industry abroad, just as this government decided that the oil fund would sell out of the tobacco industry in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2639	The noise message contains a lot of good policies. Nevertheless, we believe in the Left that the Storting slips away the chance. Now we could adopt policies that would give addicts better treatment, better health and a better life, and that could have saved lives. Norway is at the top of the overdose in Europe, as the representative Lysbakken also said. It's a bumpy top position. About 250 young lives are lost every year in overdoses. It's totally unacceptable for the Left. We cannot settle down on promises of a future plan against overdose deaths, the measures must start now. Our goal is that the number of overdose deaths should be reduced by at least 50 pst. by 2015, and that all those seeking treatment will receive it within 24 hours of detoxification. We therefore need new grips in the care of the drug. The objective of the left, like most other parties, is to minimise illicit drug use and to minimise the development of drug problems. But the Left distinguishes itself from the other parties by looking consistently at addiction as a disease. The problem of sedation has to be addressed mainly with social and professional instruments and treatment rather than punishment. Prevention of drug dependence is important. Prevention must take place in all areas affecting children and young people’s growing-up conditions, but the Left will, in particular, take action in secondary and secondary schools. We must ensure that no school scouts go ‘under the radar’. Early school intervention must be carried out systematically in primary school through active cooperation between school, family, health and social services, permanent staff, child protection, etc. In secondary schools, active follow-up is needed in the event of dropout, and the age limit for the right to take up school must be raised, so that young people who will finish secondary school at a later stage are able to do so. In addition, at both secondary and secondary school there must be more health sisters who can go to the front in order to catch up with those who are struggling. For the treatment of drug addicts, there are many good offers in Norway. The left today promotes a proposal on what we call relationship-assisted treatment. The reason is that we need greater flexibility and long-term treatment options. There is a lot of research that underpins the importance of long-term relationships in drug treatment. This may include, inter alia: ensure that patients are followed out-of-patient over time, including before, after and between any daily stay in institutions. At the same time, we unfortunately know that very good treatment is useless if the reception apparatus in the municipalities does not work. Too many people are printed out of treatment without having suitable housing, work, school or the like to go to. The left therefore supports proposals to increase government appropriations for housing and other rehabilitation, and we propose a reward scheme for municipalities that ensures that drug-free dwellings are ready from day one after day-to-day treatment. Lifesaving treatment, harm reduction and the quality of life of Ruspacers are an important concern of the Left. After a majority in the Stoltenberg Committee called for heroin-assisted treatment, the Left is now the only party on the Stortinget who will try this measure – an action that has proved to be lifesaving in several European countries. The left also considers it important that an investigation look at changing Norwegian legislation, so that treatment of drug dependence is given priority over criminal prosecution. This model has led to more people entering treatment and fewer deaths of overdoses in Portugal. Both the governmental parties and the other opposition parties are highly unclear in this respect. Open-minded drug use and the sale of illicit drugs are not to be accepted. The police shall not arrest or hunt the users, but transport them to user rooms or treatment. In order for us to be able to remove the open Russian scenes, there is no need for more talk and beautiful words, but money for a significant expansion of the care and a willingness to think new. Norway needs a new and modern drug policy, based on knowledge and experience about what works. The left today presents 17 radical and innovative proposals for a better drug policy. In addition, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1-22, Nos. 26–28, Nos. 33, Nos. 37-39, Nos. 42, Nos. 43, Nos. 50 and 51, as well as the resolution of the Progress Party which has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2662	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2665	This is an important day, it is an important debate, and I am pleased with the work that the Health and Care Committee has done here, with a thorough work on the position. We notice a broad commitment throughout the entire setting, and also in this debate. That's good. I choose to see the disagreement that is, as a healthy disagreement in a democracy. At least I don't want us to suspect each other's motives because we want the best in the field. I am pleased that an overall committee has placed the emphasis on the whole: prevention, treatment and not least the situation of the relatives. The notification has given a clearer emphasis to third parties, in particular children and close family members. We discussed this earlier in another debate today, on a related issue, and that is significant. As I experience the field of drugs, it is characterized by diversity, idealism, commitment, paradoxes and not always exact knowledge. It makes it demanding to choose the right medicine. Nevertheless, we must act, try new ways, assess new knowledge and venture to think again. To succeed, we need to focus on what happens before the patient comes to hospital. Prevention is crucial here, too, as several speakers have pointed out. We know a lot about the rush field. We know that the extent of harm and violence increasing with the consumption of drug abuse imposes a heavy burden on the individual user, family, children and related price and availability affects consumption accepted and publicising the demand for work and social life is affected; It is therefore good that the majority of the Committee agrees that the main lines of drug policy should be defined – because much works. This message makes it very clear that alcohol is a drug problem. one and cause most damage and problems. I want a greater focus on the adverse effects of alcohol and early prevention. Often, these debates tend to focus primarily on other drugs. Now let's treat it as the most important thing. Our consumption is increasing. The authorisation system, the wine monopoly system, the advertising ban, age limits and charging policy have a good impact on total consumption. We must continue and strengthen this kind of action. We need to protect off-drug zones. Studies show that municipalities do not take into account the potential of the alcohol law. Although they detect recurrent outreach on the premises, this does not necessarily lead to withdrawal of appropriations. This is not sustainable. In the message we warn several measures to increase control. One of them is to draw up a regulation laying down national requirements for the response of municipalities to infringements of alcohol legislation. The notification also deals with doping outside organised sport. There has been a broad consensus here, and the government is notifying measures in a very short time. The drug problem is much more than the drug addict himself. For example, the notification launches: the term ‘passive drinking’ to draw more attention to the significant consequences of drugs on those who use them. Children and spouses are particularly affected and suffer physical as well as mental injuries. In addition, other relevant and significant social costs are incurred. We are probably talking about as many as 1.5 million people in Norway who are in an unwanted way affected by passive drinking. These people deserve and must pay attention. User organisations and organisations working with children and young people with addicted parents should be listened to, and I would like to invite them to dialogue on the possibility of a partnership, so that we can get together to make a good effort. Between 50,000 and 150 000 children in Norway live with parents at risk of alcohol consumption. We know little about how all these children experience this. That is why it is good that the Committee supports the implementation of a life-cycle study. The government does not want services for those with drug problems to be organised as special care. Public health and care services in the municipality must be equipped to care for patients with drug problems, in line with other patients. They must see the whole human being. In the drug notification, we explicitly state that the Interaction Reform will also apply to the drug field and be a leader in the development of services. The cooperation agreements between hospitals and municipalities are important tools and are to be used actively. It must also be economic instruments. The notification of the crash alerts the gradual introduction of economic instruments for drug treatment and mental health protection. The Government assesses the speed with which the various instruments can be put in place and the device to be provided. This is a stepping-up plan. That's why I think we agree on a lot of the goal, but the proposals for a separate escalation plan in all the areas we're engaged in in Health-Norway, I'm afraid I can split up the work of seeing the whole human being, getting involved between the municipalities and the specialist health service, and seeing how different treatments are going to play together. When we had the escalating plan, we had earmarked offers for the municipalities. The opposition again criticises the government for integrating the earmarked funds for municipal drug work into municipal free incomes in 2013. As far as I know, there was a broad majority in the Grand Duchy who wanted it, and let me stress that the money is not gone, but is therefore part of the free income of municipalities. It is the municipalities who know best about the needs of their citizens and are almost there to assess the device on the service offer. I'm sure they're aware of their responsibilities, including to this user group. The provision of specialist health services shall be further developed and made more flexible. The offer shall support the municipal services. The debate on treatment in specialist health services is often confined to waiting times or to the number of places. There is an important debate, but I would nevertheless say: never have so many addicts been treated in the specialist health service. In 2011, 25 000 people were treated. We have doubled the number of outpatient consultations from 2007 to 2011. Daily capacity has increased significantly. In 2011, there were 3,700 annuals in the TSB, an increase of 7.4 pst. from 2010. The resource usage for drug treatment has increased by 50 pst. from 2007 to 2011. Then some treatment sites have been laid down, but others have also arrived. The daily capacity is greater than ever. We will always be able to discuss whether it is best with long-term, short-term and/or outpatient treatment. The answer is that the need will vary from patient to patient. Therefore, diversity in supply is so important. However, I have asked regional health companies to assess the capacity for long-term treatment in the light of the involvement and the inputs that have been made, especially where drug-freedom is an objective. Here, as we know, ideals and volunteers play a central role. Capacity must be kept to a satisfactory level. At the same time, services shall be of good quality. I think the quality issue is getting even more important in the time to come. I have asked the Health Directorate for a comparison of the price and quality of actions run by the public, and for actions run by NPISHs. This is useful knowledge. Efforts for people with extensive drug problems should be reinforced through the regular provision of services. At the same time, something more is needed. To reduce health damage, death and unworthy lives, we need to take lifesaving measures. That's why I'm glad that the committee focuses on people meeting with equivalency and respect, and that we're going to have high ambitions to help people out of addiction. Harm-reduction measures can be the way into a treatment course and can be crucial for life and health. The Committee emphasises that harm-reduction measures do not mean giving up the objective of minimising drug dependence. I fully agree with that. That's a wise approximation. Too many people die from overdoses in Norway. I am pleased that we are now embarking on an overdose strategy based on knowledge of the best and most effective measures. I have already taken initiatives that I believe can help reduce overdoses: investigating the possibility of smoking heroin in injection rooms and testing Naloxon nasal spray. The question of the use of heroin in treatment has been carefully considered, including the following: in a consensus conference. I agree that the evidence base is too weak to try this out in Norway now. We must give priority to further development and quality assurance of treatment services, both drug-free and medically assisted. Norway agrees that people with drug problems should preferably face health care rather than punishment. Drug programmes with judicial control and detention centres in Norwegian prisons are to be continued, and we are assessing new ones. Drug use is prohibited and the police are required to contribute to the reduction of availability. Health services shall actively meet users with good lowthreshold and outreach services. We don't want a society where the weak are chased from place to place in an unworthy way. People shall meet with respect and an offer of help, regardless of their dependence on drugs. The government believes it is necessary to strengthen knowledge and competence. Quality-lifting drugs and mental health continue and further develop competence measures from the escalation plans in the field. A specialty in drugs and addiction will be established, which will strengthen competence, improve recruitment and stimulate research. In 2013, the Health Directorate will have completed work on most national guidelines for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The guidelines are based on available knowledge of good drug treatment. Drugs cause major problems and deserve good solutions. The conclusion of the Norwegian drug policy is great. That's good, messages confirm it. In the debate and the commitment I have also recorded contradictions, and I think it's to live with. Sometimes I get the impression that the opposite is going to be greater than they really are. I don't think this serves either the debate or those who are struggling with the troubles. Much has been achieved. At the same time, we will work intently to address the challenges in the future. We spend a lot of money on drug treatment. Every year we step up our efforts. The discussion about more money needs to be complemented with a focus on quality, content and effect, and how we can prevent better and repair less. Look at me! – the spillover message – adopts a comprehensive approach to drug policy. We're going to continue with what works, and renew where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2744	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2747	In recent years, prior to the presentation of this big message, we felt that the government had removed the requirement that the specialist healthcare should give priority to this patient group. We felt that the government had removed the earmarked scheme for municipalities to give priority to this patient group – in a situation where the municipalities, after the Stortinge had adopted the plan for transferring earmarked funds, had received financial incentives to give priority to the somatic patients. We have seen that a number of treatment services have been abandoned, not least for patients with doublediagnosis — drug use, psychiatry, for example. TEDD here in Oslo. Does the State Council believe that these changes have been of the best benefit to drug addicts in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2756	As far as I know, the right was to include these funds in the framework. This money has not gone away, and I have faith that the municipalities can handle it in a good way. It must be seen in the context of the large number of free resources provided by this government. I see that the municipalities that have been given them eartags seem to have handled the situation in a good way. So it's like pointing to one area and saying that they're going to have more in the budget, we've come up with a little specific action. Nevertheless, I point out that there is a steady escalation in this field, and in the context of the cooperation reform, I think it also increases the possibility of seeing the relationship between drug-psychiatry, drug-somatics – the whole human being between specialist health services and primary health services. Therefore, I believe that this is a common grip that benefits from a stepping-up plan, takes advantage of the efforts we are making, even when this staging message has come, so that we can see the whole of the funds and do not break it up in some escalation plans and some areas of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2763	I just want to state that a total opposition voted against the proposal to remove the earmarking of $300 million. kr to those addicted to alcohol. An overall field of expertise — the drugs field — warned the Stortinget against the same in the hearing, both for the State budget and for the drug notification. But my question was not the government's reasons for all these downsides of this patient group. My question was about the changes that this government has made in this area would have been an advantage – that is, to the benefit of the country’s drug addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2770	The representative wants me to say that this has been bad for the patient group. I don't want to say that, because I don't think it's cover for that. I have in my post outlined an increased number of treatment sites, an increased number of outpatient treatments, an increased volume, both in the number of people who are treating and in the development of the service as such. I believe it is in favour of this patient group. I believe the Interaction Reform is a significant advantage, because it increases the possibility of early intervention – cooperation between specialist healthcare and healthcare close to where you live. I believe that the roll-out of the financial instruments of the Drug and Psychiatric Interaction Reform will build on this. That's why I think we're on a course to see the whole human being, give them better offers, see the relationship between different health services – part of a great transition to mental health, also part to take a nuanced drug responsibility seriously. [[The representative, Höie, is about to leave the pulpit.]] I hope the representative is interested in the last seven seconds as well. So the answer is yes, I think this is for the benefit of this group – as I underlined in my post. We have knowledge, but we need more. We also want to work to get us there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2777	58 pst. of the total daily capacity of the specialist health service is operated by private and non-profit providers. There's a lot of professional competence here. A valuable contribution has been made to the care of drug users. We know that tenders in this sector have been demanding for non-profit institutions, despite their high quality. We also know that long-term agreements have been demanding. It is an overall committee that says that it is an objective that the non-profit institutions ‘must affect policy in the future as much as they have done so far’. My challenge to the Council of State is how the government wants to achieve this goal, which has been endorsed by an overall committee in the United Kingdom in the evening's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2787	This question gives me the opportunity to answer the claim that we give less priority to this sector. I think it's wrong, and I've checked the numbers a little bit. When we buy places here from the private – and that's essentially the ideal ones – the number of places from 2005 to 2012 has gone from just under 800 to about 950, which is an increase. The value of those contracts went from around 700 million. DKK to around 1.2 billion. kr. So that means that evolution has been evenly buying multiple places from that sector. Why? Well, that's because there's quality and diversity. I'm busy listening to them. I have now asked regional health companies to assess long-term treatment and look at it in a new light. We have asked for an assessment of the quality of the services provided by these institutions and those provided by the specialist health services, in order to obtain a better basis. So with quality as a starting point, I'm sure this non-profit sector is going to have a lot to separate from, a lot to learn from, but I also have to take on some challenges when a specialist healthcare service is going to base the quality of the agreements you make.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2794	Then the next representative is Borghild Tenden. Since none of the other lots have joined, the last line will go to the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2800	The left has proposed a 24-hour guarantee. The reason is that then there is the greatest risk of relapse, and then addicts are most motivated. Does the Council agree that it is a problem that there is such a long wait as it is today? And what assessments does the Minister of Health make of the Left's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2807	I'm assuming here, as otherwise, that in case of emergency, emergency aid is to be given. Otherwise, some of the challenges I have seen from the representative tendon are that if people come to treatment, they need to be able to get an offer of further treatment quickly. I believe that I have a lot to do, but I do not think that a 24-hour rule necessarily covers and captures all the needs – that it will not always be that a person in such a situation needs a follow-up offer after 24 hours. But I come back to what I said in my post: it is important to see the needs of the individual human being, and there may be a diversity in the kind of follow-up that is needed then. Our job is to work because that diversity is there. Either it is to continue the follow-up to the specialist healthcare service, or there is provision for longer-term treatment, outpatient treatment and interaction between services close to where you live, and in hospitals and specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2814	In the period following the drug reform — the transfer of drug institutions to the state — many drug institutions have experienced very different and changing framework conditions. We've had long rounds in Stortinget, for example. on guidelines in the Health East, where it was thought that if six months were not completed, no further treatment was needed — the social aspects related to this were lost. But one thing that's been stuck in this period, and that makes us now have statistics that show that there's actually been an increase in effort, was the golden rule that existed until last year, that is, that all the health care businesses were measured by the fact that there was a larger growth in the drug and psychiatry breakdown. My question is not now to discuss whether this is instead of quality, because I think we can do both parts at the same time: we can both have quality and fit volume. But the question is, if the volume drops, will the Council consider reintroducing the rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2823	If we look at all the health challenges that our hospitals are going to face – cancer, mental health, lifestyle diseases, it's a big picture – I think picking out some areas, setting numbers on it with goals, giving a little accurate picture based on the priorities that the regions and hospitals are going to do on an ongoing basis. Then I have more faith that we are able to complete the activity of the hospitals – this government has done every year – that in the company documents, in the mission documents of the hospitals, we clearly normatively focus on areas of society through government, anchored in the Stortinget, putting the hospital's activities into action. I have been very clear in the area of mental health and alcohol in my assignment to the hospitals for 2013. That means they have a clear marshy soil in those areas. Then they must give priority. Here, there are different assumptions from region to region and from hospital to hospital. It's to be for them that we haven't chosen to use the tool to set a separate number for this sector. I think it's the right way to go. So we're going to evaluate the volume as it evolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2830	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2833	First, I need to state that the people we are talking about here, who are described in this message, have all been somewhere else before they got in the message. They've been our classmates, they've been our neighbors, they've been our son's and daughter's playmates, and they've been our cousins and cousins, husbands or children. So I want to say that in the debate on drug policy, it is important to bring along the device of the broad welfare state. In Norway, it is about combining responsibility for one's own life with a sense of solidarity for our next. The redistribution of wealth — the state and private sector — is one of the most important means of getting more people to have a good life. The opposition believes that these instruments are not working. In the prevention of the alcohol problem, they choose a medicine that has the opposite effect, namely more liberalisation and less governance. In my opinion, the comments of the Right and Advance Party in important areas of control and control are as unreliable as sand grains in the wind. The commitment of the Right and the Advance Party to change Norway is one of the main means of increasing consumption and putting large groups of drug addicts at the back of the health, care and work queues. In my opinion, the Right’s focus on the level, structure and organisation is not what will improve the everyday life of the persons mentioned in this message. The risk of overdose deaths does not disappear because of the privatization of providers. I have a long life behind me in interdisciplinary drug treatment. In my first years of work at the end of the 1980s, I met many outsourced and supported people with alcohol dependence — often toothless, without work, no anchoring points other than occasional social-curator conversations or some other shelter. They are today an almost invisible group. Something is about them being treated, about the functioning of the drug reform, and that they are being followed up more closely. But it is also about the welfare society carrying them longer, also with its dependence. Dependence may be more hidden over a longer period of time. The consequences of alcohol have moved from the parks into the homes of people. That is why I am very pleased that this report has taken seriously that alcohol is the drug that causes most drug-related deaths in our society, and is a major national and international challenge. So to that talk about it. The Ministry of Justice has delivered a notice of violence in close relations and has proposed that midwives should talk to pregnant women about violence. People should talk more to each other about more. Violence and intoxication should become the everyday topic of conversation at the firm doctor, health care sister, physiotherapist, preschool teacher and – not least – between us, all of us who call ourselves the others. The fuss may be what takes most years of life after all. Passive drinking – hip hurrah for the term, and hurrah for the focus. I am proud that the Minister has been able to put the needs of children and relatives so clearly on the agenda. By means of provisions in health laws, in Nav, in criminal law and the establishment of, inter alia, competence networks and family ambulances have done a lot in the field of children and family. That's the right direction, and that's the right direction. So until it announced the living conditions survey. We know that approx. 60 pst. Of those in prison, drug use is problematic. Several prisons have set up detention centres, and that's good. But children of prisoners are also to be followed up. There are major organisational and – I allow myself to claim – mental challenges in order to be able to follow this up in a good way. I therefore believe that the living conditions survey must include children of prisoners. We know that they have great challenges. Organisations of drug addicts and their relatives do a lot of good work. RIO, A alarm and LAR-Net are several examples of this, and also those that give work to addicts, such as KLAR on Agder and = Oslo in Oslo. Qualification programmes and work-related schemes have helped many, and more have to be helped by these schemes. The message has also – finally, I have to say – taken action to get a specialisation in medical training. The communication discusses quality and research, and there may not be as much accurate knowledge as the minister had in mind. It doesn't have to mean that the quality is bad, we just don't know enough about it. The broad approach of the field, including many user organisations, may be strong. I do not think specialisation makes cooperation more difficult, but in the design of the speciality it is important that the content leads to more cooperation, not less, and that in dialogue and cooperation the future drug service needs to be developed based on what we know works – but ‘with the heart of the right place’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2859	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2862	Many of us Northmen have tried what is called illegal drugs or drugs in a rather meaningless group. I'm one of them myself. SIRUS could already tell us in 2003 that over one million Nordics have tried cannabis. Despite the experience of many of us, there are few who break the silence and take part in the debate. There is no basis for morbidising or criminalising on a general basis. The Committee's attitude and the government's proposals are full of good intentions. Look at me! is the message title. But who really wants to be seen if the consequences are punishment, punishment and exclusion? When the Storting reports today that decriminalisation of use and possession or legalisation of drugs is not proven to reduce drug problems, it is a claim it does not substantiate. When, as a society, we use the hardest reaction of society, it has to be demonstrated that it actually does something positive for those who are involved and for those who are concerned. The use of punishment is the hardest response of society. The positive effects of criminalisation have not been demonstrated. On the other hand, these are the adverse effects. It is not the backers or organised crime that are affected by the criminalisation policy. Police use huge resources on what is called drug crime. It looks good on police intelligence statistics, but it is mainly the users who are being punished. In Eastfold police district, it was well over 90 p.m. Of the drug issues where use and possession were involved. The consequences for users may be fines or prison sentences. Note on the leaflet may cause job losses or study opportunities within a number of professionals. The social signal that the use of illicit drugs is socially unacceptable creates exclusion. We know a lot about the ones that work the most. People who have gone through traumatic loss experiences, have been subjected to violence or assault, are overrepresented. Too many former child-restraints are being promoted. On the one hand, more user involvement is being talked about, while on the other hand, often the same people are being disqualified by stamping any user who abuses or criminalizes. You can't talk about human dignity and solidarity with any of the most disadvantaged in society when it helps to make bad worse for many. You don't have to go further than down to Oslo S to witness social renovation. I believe that Stortinget should look at the following proposals with prejudiced eyes: Test scheme with heroin-assisted treatment for the heaviest users decriminalising users and shifting resources from police, justice and criminal care to differential treatment that meets the individual where you are in life, more aftercare, increased commitment to school health, more psychologists and more social work assess legalisation/regulation of drugs with fewer harmful consequences than alcohol use, such as cannabis and khat. Despite a lot of good news in my report, my hope for the future is that we can develop a drug policy that puts people ahead of dogmas and principles. It is to be regretted that the Storting is not mature for it today. Users and relatives had earned better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2889	I hear from the government parties that I have no reason to worry. Then the answer is that on behalf of the Right I have higher ambitions. Today it is approx. 2 000 waiting for treatment in the drug field. What distinguishes these patients from other patients is that we have to hold them in when they are motivated – unless they have to be coerced, and that is the very few. In a short time, 70 long-term sites are being closed down. I don't call that a stepping-up plan, but a de-construction plan. I also hear the Council of State say that he will now have a review and compare the quality of the treatment offer, both in terms of the ideals and in terms of the specialist healthcare service. With shame to report: I expected that to be on the table when you were already stepping down long-term places. Going from bed to chair, as we've done a lot within the somatic environment -- without this being knowledge-based or evidence-based -- tends to be what I call gambling. We have from the Right wanted an escalating plan within the drug field. State councils say that the drug notification is a stepping-up plan – then you don’t build down. We've added 100 million. kr in our alternative budget just for stepping up in the area of rehabilitation. We've also said 100 million in the past. kr shall be taken to the labour of abstinence. In my area will be decommissioned in a short time Phoenix House Haga. Nybøle Russinstitution is likewise being built in Spydeberg. So I'm going to label 45 million. kr within the Health South-East framework of a project to reduce waiting times – specifically targeting long-term sites. In the middle of that area is Phoenix Haga. Earlier in this Chamber, the Council of State has been confronted with the fact that it is possible to make reversals and not just to refer to administrative and legal assessments where there are several interpretations. I attend an investigation or an explanation of it in the near future. On the right, it will also reverse the cuts that are in the earmarked drugs within the municipal framework – 300 million. kr. It's low threshold. It's putting into play what's out of touch in Fredrikstad. So this is not a stepping-up plan – this is a reduction. There is no evidence to support the effectiveness of short-term or long-term treatment. Too many of these drug users — whether they have a long history of substance abuse or a short-term abuse — are about getting away from bad friends. Then it won't just hold on to a chair. It's about a bed. That is what is involved in long-term treatment. I expected that a documentation of what works would have been the basis of the drug notification – and when it does not, that it will come in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2910	We need a comprehensive drug policy, and it adds up to it. I want to talk about the third person, who is influenced by the drug use of others, i.e. the children – who were also the subject of the previous case, the interview of the representative Solberg. How can we get in early with help at the health centre, in child protection, in the PPT office and at school? If parents do not suspect that they are dealing badly with drugs, do they ask their children how they experience their parents ’ drug use? Well, they ask about school, homework, friends, siblings, eating habits and sleep. But do they have a mandatory section on how they experience parents ’ association with alcohol, and then with a focus on alcohol? There's a lot of cardboard wine drinking, and Norwegian women drink three times more than their grandmothers. There are many façades that are kept. How do children experience this? There's something about our social development that makes it not always what the children want to focus on when it's invited to a party. That's why I like the AV-OG-TIL initiative that makes us think about whether there's a need for wine for lunch with friends on the cabin. Maybe once again we can start inviting friends in the middle of the week on a cup of tea or a cup of coffee, and not on any glass of wine? There's one thing about children living in families with the hidden rush, the one behind successful facades, with expensive houses, great car and well paid job. Then we have the children that are borne out by a mother who is without a regular job, without a home, and who has a drug problem that causes the child to be born with abstinence. How do you manage to get in early and follow up both mother and child? I'm going to open a conference on Thursday at Voss that just brings up this theme: When women with a history of drug addiction are waiting for children, what then? Some dilemmas arise when the protection of the child does not initially come in until the child is born. It is clear that it would have been useful for them to have a dialogue with their mother before the child was born. The cancellation message we are dealing with today addresses several of the questions and issues I have raised, and the government delivered a big message about violence in close relationships a few weeks ago, which also had a link to the crime. There are, as the representative Lysbakken said, many departments involved in this work. The government is in this field, and it is important that large-scale and municipal authorities facilitate the follow-up of municipal employees in the first line, for example. through the Interaction Reform. I am therefore repeating the title and title of the message, ‘Look at me!’, which especially applies to children who grow up in a family where there are negative relationships with drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2927	The crash message we are now handling clearly shows that the drug field needs a significant escalation. The government gives a good description of challenges in this area, and the communication has in itself good intentions. On the right, the government is pleased that the main line of Norwegian drug policy has produced results and that restrictive drug and alcohol policies provide the best results. However, I would like to point to an area within the drug field that does not receive much attention, an area that may appear to be the biggest addiction problem in Norway next to alcohol, namely the misuse of addictive drugs. Very many patients reduce their chronic pain with strong opiates every day. Many people use strong drugs for short periods of time and at the right dosage, but unfortunately too many end up as heavy addicts because of high doses of addictive pain-relieving drugs. Nurses can tell about patients of all ages with heavy, severe withdrawals due to opiates. The stories of these patients we get a little bit of insight into through the media. Many of them tell about an abuse that starts in the small, but that escalates after some time because of easy access to strong addictive drugs through a health care system that works fragmentedly and inconsequentially towards pain patients. The right has repeatedly pointed to the need for increased bets on pain outpatients, so that chronic pain patients can receive highly competent and specialised medical care. It has not always been stated that the prescribers are able to follow up medications and prescriptions for those patients who live with chronic pain due to injury or disease. Therefore, in dealing with this Communication, we propose increased research and development of competences in the context of the misuse of addictive drugs. This, I believe, is important in order to have an overall view of drugs as a social problem. In particular, more attention must be paid to research, and we must ensure that local health services have the necessary skills. I believe that this is urgent, because increasing tasks are being phased from the specialist health service to the primary health service in connection with the implementation of the Interaction Reform. We need to build capacity and competence across the country, and we need to be able to provide good treatment for chronic pain patients and prevent long-term drug abuse with all the suffering it causes to the individual, to the family and to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2939	The announcement 'Look at me!' gives a good description of how things stand in the field of drugs, and it gives some answers as to how we can best prevent, and how we want the future's drug policy to be. Alcohol, as many have mentioned, is one of the main causes of disability, disease and death from a global public health perspective. About 4 pst. deaths worldwide are caused by alcohol and alcohol is responsible for 4.65 pst. of the global burden of disease in the form of lost years of life. That's why we should put in most of the countermeasures in this area. Drugs, which we talk most about in the field of drugs, come into a major European study in 14th place on health and social problems. Noise policies and common challenges are being discussed in all countries, and it is interesting that many countries are looking at Norway and what we are doing, especially in the area of alcohol policy. In the Nordic Council context, drug policy has also been discussed – most recently at the Finnish session – where the Velferdscommittee presented its recommendations for action in the light of a public health perspective at twelve points, ranging from more research to concrete actions such as per mille and alcolock. The Committee supports in the Communication that this should be looked at in the wider drug policy. The basis for the recommendations made by the Nordic Council is advice from experts from all over Europe, which the sample received in its work. There was one thing we were in agreement about, and perhaps the most important thing, namely availability and price as a mechanism to reduce consumption. There are measures that most experts believe work. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, agree with the experts. The majority support the policy pursued by Norway in this area. On the other hand, the progress party does not agree, but they may be using any other experts who think it is better to repair than to prevent? In the book ‘Alcohol: No ‘ordinary’ goods’, a group of researchers has gone through extensive international research into the extent to which the various alcohol policies and measures can contribute to reducing the extent of health and social problems. They have concluded that alcohol taxes, restrictions on serving times and the number of outlets are effective instruments. This confirms that much of what we do is right, and that this track should be followed further. Today’s debate shows that there are many measures that need to be taken in many arenas. We don't have all the answers now either. So we have to keep doing what we do well, and then we have to be open to new solutions where things don't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2954	For a seafarer, total debate on drugs and alcohol in particular is quite interesting. From my own point of view, I can say that I want a more stringent alcohol policy and a more humane treatment for those who are addicted to drugs. It's a little strange to see the value scale over what we think we're allowing, and what we think is okay about alcohol as a common drug, which actually causes the biggest damage and problems in society. Of the measures that we should take, I'm most concerned with what's called bulwark control. That's because we know that overlap is a big problem, and that leads to very sad things, among other things. violence. Yeah, I've also been out in the evening, and it doesn't look like people have fun either. I think that if we get a little bit less filling, more of that has fun. So to what the representative Sjøli from the Right was in on when she mentioned addictive B-drugs: Yes, it's a big and serious health problem, but it's not a drug problem for most people. It's not about people who seek drugs, but it's about people who want to relieve pain or some other problem in their lives. Then it may end up as a drug problem in the end, but for most people this is not a drug problem, but a medical problem where you get drug damage over a long time. Often this is also diagnosed as a disease, while there are side effects. It was said instead that we have to be better off taking out those who might become alcohol addicts. Yeah, I think everyone can be. I don't think it's possible to pick them out and say that it should be free for everyone else. No, I actually think that we have to impose some restrictions on all of us in order for this to be a better society. When it comes to the need for more rehabilitation sites, I think it's obvious. I have also for a long time discussed this with the Minister of Health with the quality of the tenders, and what we are putting into it. I don't know if the Health Minister gets time to answer that now, but it's a big problem if some of the institutions that have had quality treatment and maybe cost a little more, lose some of these tenders. It's also very important that we realize that it takes a long time to finish some of this treatment, and that it's not necessarily possible to solve any of these rehabilitation tasks in an outpatient course.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2967	I just want to say that I largely agree with everything the previous representative said, but that I do not agree with that distinction that one tried to give, between pain patients who end up as addicts, and other addicts. I'm going to think that a large proportion of the other addicts have become addicts because they've wanted to deafen different kinds of pain, whether it's mental pain or other pain. There is a slight difference between the types of drugs used, whether they are using illicit or legal drugs. The point is – that was also what the Stortinget decided in connection with Rusreform II – that there are many ways into drug addiction. However, the consequence of many years of drug dependence and excessive use, whether legal or illegal, is that one is ill and needs treatment — and is therefore a patient, with patients’ rights. I just took the word to give a brief explanation of vote. The right will vote in favour of proposal No. 52, from the Progression Party, about Naloxon nasal spray, which we have also voted for and been occupied by in the past – along with the same party. Then we will also vote in favour of the proposal No. 53, No 57 and Nos 60, from the left. A number of the other proposals from the Left are not opposed, but today we do not see the full consequences of them. We therefore believe that these will be proposals which it is natural to consider in the context of, for example, the issue. The preparation of an escalating plan for the drug field, which we are voting for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2976	I believe that the message from this debate is a very broad and comprehensive foundation of value in terms of the objectives of Norwegian drug policy and the work to help people affected by drug addiction. Let me just say to the representative, Mr Schou, for the sake of order: it is wrong that there is a systematic reduction in long-term treatment. There is generally an increase along the entire spring. Then there is a need to get more knowledge about which treatment works. I hear a lot of people saying that this knowledge should have been contained in the drug report. Well, we're always going to have to update on the knowledge that's available and that's going to happen – whether it's going to be medical, social, whether it's going to be long treatment, short treatment – if we're going to meet the individual. The claim that right-hand reverses cut of 300 million. kr, is a strange production. There is respect for putting it back in an ear-marked frame, but then you want to take money from a number of municipalities. Now this is distributed over the framework for free income. Then you're going to bring this back again and give it to those who were given this eartag before. I think it is a nice system, at least in the spirit of the Cooperation Reform. The specialist health service has a responsibility here. Then those who sit and make choices and buy places – that’s what happens on a large scale – have to choose between quality and economics. We want to improve knowledge, so that those choices become good. In connection with some highly profiled cases, I have been very close to those who sit and make these choices, where someone has not received a tender, and where it is shown that a non-profit organisation has not received a job. The result is that another non-profit organisation has been commissioned. I understand that this is frustrating for engaged people. But what those who sit and make these decisions say to me is that they have to deal with the quality requirements of the specialist health service. Then we'll have to debate them. I agree that some services may be more expensive, and that the price should not be the only decisive one. I think a lot can speak for that services in the ideals in some contexts can be more reasonable, but once again, the quality that has to be determined. So I believe that the representative Sjøli and also the representative Karin Andersen raise a very important question – whether you call it one or the other, whether it's a drug problem or a addiction problem, I don't want to address – which we should perhaps come back to in this debate, and which really emphasizes that drugs and drugs that affect people's lives in a way that you don't want, are at least in great abundance in our society and affect and ruin the lives of a lot of people. It underlines the importance of prevention. I think the Progress Party, which had a 15-minute post, and which was very ambitious when it came to repair, at the same time shone with its absence when it came to prevention. It was generally quite clear, at least in terms of alcohol, which is the biggest problem. There was no strategy to meet this problem. I take a lot of good input – a lot of good work – from this debate. I also listen to the opposition's marking in its areas – including the proposals they promote – as a useful contribution to our work in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e2991	Initially, I would just like to point out to the Minister of Health that some of the ideal actors who have had to cancel have also won a tender. However, the tendering periods have been so short that it has been impossible over time to maintain a professional environment. There may have been too little capacity and too much uncertainty, as the tendering periods are not designed to allow a foundation or a non-profit organisation to live with them. But that's not what I took the word for. We're now at the end of a magnification period. A new staging representative has a steep learning curve during his first period. The lesson that may have struck me most strongly over these four years is that no matter what way and what kind of committee I turn to, I see that the challenges we face, the expectations and the requirements for what the future welfare society will deliver are beyond the possibilities of what we call the world's richest country in delivering. We can see it in the somatic context and in the priority discussions in the health care community. We can see that in Child Protection, where we increase the number of jobs every year. But the number of cases reported for child protection is increasing faster than we can manage to manage the services. We can see it in the area of mental health protection, where we have now reached the point where we offer mental health protection for 5 pst. of the country's children and young people. In many areas, the causes are difficult to identify. If we are able to identify the causes of the challenges, there is not necessarily clear action that we know will work. Today, we are discussing an area that we know is the cause of a large part of the challenges we face in many sectors – somatic, mental health, child protection, etc. Then it strikes me that we become a little technical in the discussion, and that I miss a bigger adult-child perspective in such a discussion. We have some policy measures that work to limit access and reduce consumption, reduce abuse. But then it's about what kind of culture we as adults create, what kind of culture we as political leaders contribute to, what kind of standards we set for how adults behave, and what we expose kids to. I would like to commend the representatives Hilde Magnusson and Karin Andersen for making important contributions in this area. It is clear that we can continue to grant money for mental health protection, for child protection and for other remedial measures, but sooner or later we come to a point where we may need to make a stronger deal with our own contribution to a culture that helps people suffer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3004	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Health, who sees that there may be reason to debate the professionalism and quality of the way we prepare the tenders. I think that's very important. In principle, SV does not want us to use tenders in particular, but that we should cooperate with the voluntary, non-profit sector, and find out the forms of contract with those who ensure the professionalism and quality of the offer. They very often have extensive experience and good intentions in participating in this work – to put it that way, health economists may have had too much influence on the design of some of these contracts – so I am very pleased. You could say a lot about what the representative of the Christian People's Party was up here saying, and that we all have a responsibility to create a society where adults take more responsibility for their own ways of associating with them. I fully agree with that, but I also think we have a very great responsibility when we are talking about and setting up policies for some of those who may be struggling most with their own rush, for example. Injecting drug users. I perceive that there is a little bit of talk about guilt, punishment and crime when it really applies to very sick and addicted people. I have no faith that it helps. Suffering if I sail have taken a clear stand, I see that other people are in a situation where saying that no, stay away from everything, this is terrible and this is punishable, has no function. That's why we need something else. Finally, the debate on these addictive B-drugs I've been dealing with: I want to repeat: No, basically, there's no drug policy, so it doesn't belong here. Some people have over-exploitation of e.g. large doses of analgesics or B preparations. What I'm talking about are therapeutic doses of common B drugs that cause side effects that are again diagnosed as new mental illness. You keep going with drugs, and you get sick with it. It may end up in a drug problem, at least if the tapering is not medically sound. I know a lot of these people, and I have contacts that I'm going to communicate to the Minister of Health. They're very concerned that they've never had a drug problem, they've never gone into this with a desire for drugs, but they've ended up with an addiction to drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3013	First of all, an explanation of vote by the Christian People's Party: we are voting in favour of proposals No. 53, No 55, Nos. 57, Nos. 58, No 59, Nos. 60 – we are not in bingo – no. 62 and Nos 63 from the left. As rapporteur of the matter, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for its good professional hearings. The Russberichten See Meg!, the setting and today's debate confirm many important drug policy pillars. If I'm going to raise one post on which this work in this house has produced results, it's the pole that whoever you are hassles with alcohol, drugs or drugs, yes, you never, never, ever, ever, ever used up your chance to get help with the challenge you're facing. You'll be met like the one you are, where you are, when you need it, whether it's the first time, the second time or the seventh time you knock on a door. That post has this setting confirmed in a good way, and I think that's an important message that the treatment device takes with it from today's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3022	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3036	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3045	I realized the comments when I went into here that it was starting to be a long day. I don't think we're going to do much to pull the day out much longer, but I think it's worth commending the committee for a very quick procedure. Faster processing than we have had on this matter here, I think you should look further. It was presented by the ministry on Friday a little over a week ago and referred to in Stortinget on Thursday. We left the setting on the same day, so it's up to treatment now. Of course, it is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal. The elimination of discrimination in respect of taxes on wealth between, and in respect of, compensation for children under the Law on Compensation for Damage and the elimination of disability. The committee is unanimous. I'll do a little bit about the story. It was VG that had a five-year notice about Daniel that had to pay property taxes on 18 September last year. Then the finance minister was very quick to say that he wanted to correct the skepticism, and in reply to me he also promised that it would apply from 2012. I had also come to commend the Minister of Finance for quick handling, but we are now about as far into the year as it is possible if we are to make it applicable for 2012 – that is a small comment we have. But here it's gone fast, I think we're all going to admit that. Maybe it went quickly when we wrote the comment as well. We're commenting on the opposition's side that we notice that we're not applying it to other situations, for example. in the case of the Loan Fund. I have had a little discussion with the finance minister now before the matter came to consideration, and he says that it was corrected already last year, and that the rule we have pointed out in the remark applies generally to wealthy young people. The general asset debate was not meant to go into this matter. In addition to that, I would really just like to congratulate the Committee and the Minister of Finance on a quick procedure, and that we have got it through so that it can become applicable for 2012. A bias is corrected – that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3054	Yes, we hope that this is confirmed by the procedure in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3057	I am very pleased that the proposal to expand the group of children and young people who are being exempted from property taxes from compensation for serious personal injury and loss of dependants is being agreed today. As the case-speaker said, it is one of the consensual committees that advises the case. The case should take effect from 2012, which is also very important. We discussed a similar Document 8 proposal in December 2012, and we decided to attach it to the protocol. It was simply because the department was already dealing with it, and there were hearing suggestions. The hearing proposal and the legislative proposal we are discussing today actually go a little further than what the Document 8 proposal did. In the legislative proposal, the limit has been removed completely, while it was reduced to 15 pst. in the proposal. Eleven have responded to the call, and everyone who has made comments supports the proposal. The case spokesperson mentioned it himself at the end of his post, but I just want to comment on the comment they have written when it concerns the Loan Box. Under current law, there are exceptions for the need to test scholarships for higher education students, which means that the grant will not be reduced by replacement and insurance payments as a result of personal injury to the applicant himself or to the spouse. That derogation shall also cover upliftment paid under the Law on Victim Compensation of Victims or the Law on Compensation of Damage. Similarly, grants to students in further training will not be reduced as a result of receiving such compensation and insurance payments. Actually, I just want to end by saying that I am also very happy that this matter is decided in such a short time, and that it will take effect from 2012, and I would like to thank the case spokesman for a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3068	This is a day of joy. It is not often the Red-Green Government and the Labour Party want to remove more of the wealth tax than the Progress Party, but that is actually the case in this case, and I congratulate the Minister of Finance on that! Continue this way – we are happy about everything we don’t do in the government offices, so please make several of those suggestions! As has been mentioned from the Chair, this is a proposal which is quite identical to what was promoted in December 2012, and it may well be that we were promoting this proposal while the ministry was already making changes, so at least it is a unanimous committee and a unanimous magnification and a unanimous nation behind this. We all want to be happy with the removal of the property tax for that type of compensation. It's well deserved for those who get such kind of compensation, because they already have it hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3075	When the Storting makes decisions today, according to its government proposal and the Financial Committee's unanimous vote, we set the finish line for a matter we've had to discuss several times in the last year. We've got some of them all the time. The aim of the amendment is to exempt property taxes on claims paid after serious injury or loss of dependants to children and young people. The changes in the law will take effect from the 2012 income year, which is also in line with the commitments we have made in previous treatments. So we are all satisfied! By changing the law that has now been passed, we remove the limitations of the law that has the untimely frame. We remove the 50 pst requirement. reduce the function of exempting property taxes and include compensation from accident insurance or the equivalent in the tax exemption. That's what we in the government party and the opposition have asked for. Then I register that the Right and Left – despite the unity – find reason to regret: the proceedings have taken too long, they say, despite the fact that there will be no postponement of the law's implementation in relation to the resolutions that have been laid down by everyone. Now I have to say that the case-speaker from the Right took good care of himself. It was almost as if they were undoing the whole comment, and it was wise to say it that way. After all, it's up to the opposition to find something to complain about, but the basis for this time is thin. There are good and up-to-date procedures for legal work to be done before it is done by Stortinget. This time, case preparation and listening rounds have not led to the postponing of legal changes. In fact, we have received what the Minister of Finance has promised us in the past – warned in September, sent on a roll in December, and with which we have all been very satisfied – and then find the opposition party, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, an opportunity, of course, to remind us that the wealth tax should be removed. Let me say this: it is a little special to use a case about children and young people's exemption from property tax for damages after serious personal injury to conduct debates on the property tax in general. For me, it is difficult to see that there is any reasonable connection between taxing billions of assets and shielding compensation for children who have been injured.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3094	Then it looks like we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3142	Here is the progress, right and left which represents the setting. The Christian People's Party has announced that they support the setting. It is therefore assumed that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3171	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3178	A total of 69 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-21, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 22 and 23 from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 24 and 25 from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 27-44 by Mr Stordalen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 26 from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 45-51 from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 52 by Mr Stordalen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 53 to 69 from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3206	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 56, 64, 65, 67 and 68, from the left Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen preventive health work by, inter alia, implementing a escalation plan that provides 1000 new health sisters over 4 years’ time.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen and extend the drug programme with judicial control and other alternative responses based on the principle of treatment rather than punishment for drugrelated crime.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider changing Norwegian drug legislation in accordance with the model of the reforms in Portugal, where treatment of drug dependence is a priority rather than criminal prosecution.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a trial project with heroin-assisted treatment for the very heaviest users who have not benefited from other medical treatments.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the injection room regulation to allow different routes of administration than injection and to allow substances other than heroin.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3242	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 45-49, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider providing a centre of expertise with researchers and volunteers to develop prevention programmes.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the state maximum time for the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages so that all donations stop at 1 p.m. 02.00.’» Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of the warning marking on alcoholic beverages in Norway.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess, without delay, whether more appropriate response options can be introduced in the event of an infringement of the ban on alcohol advertising.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess project funding for the development of ICT tools when issuing a health certificate when applying for a driving licence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3278	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 50 and 51, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the increase of basic support for non-specialist care measures to 2/3 of the cost of a treatment site.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the conclusion, through direct negotiations, of ongoing agreements with non-profit-making actors in the health and social sectors.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3301	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to cooperate with the social and sport organisations in order to strengthen the work of non-alcoholic zones and to extend the arena of freedom of alcohol.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3319	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29–32, 34–36, 40, 41 and 44, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish reception and follow-up centres for drug addicts across the country.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to transfer the tasks of assessment units to the drug addict reception and follow-up centres.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide its own youth reception facilities as part of the drug addict reception and follow-up centres.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to help bring together economic and professional responsibility for the reception, treatment and long-term follow-up of drug addicts at a single administrative level.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that there is sufficient capacity for medical treatments to start as soon as the individual needs it’. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide treatment and follow-up of drug addicts to qualified professional settings in the reception and follow-up centres.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the options for basing treatment of drug addicts on trust rather than control and thus reduce the use of urine controls.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure effective non-discrimination between public, private and non-profit institutions serving households and to establish a system of official recognition.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of a government funding model which ensures an overall treatment cycle for addicts.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a grant scheme for organisations working with drug problems targeted at children and young people’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3381	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 54, 61, 66 and 69, from the left. Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of a model to ensure that breakaways are given an hour to outpatient or other treatment within 24 hours of detoxification.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government requests the amendment of paragraphs 14 to 14 of the Medicines Regulation so that medicinal products for the treatment of alcohol dependence may be refunded in advance.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure low-threshold substitution treatment in all municipalities and to provide permanent doctors with the opportunity to start substitution treatment in a few days’ time’. Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put in place concrete measures to reduce overdose deaths, including: distribution of survival packages with both resuscitation equipment and Naloxone.’» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3414	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24 and 25, from the Party of Advancement, and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a joint effort on websites, blogs and online communities to promote a common approach to drugs.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Internet mobilization against drugs to be linked to school-based attitudes’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3435	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting funds for increased efforts against professional sellers and street sales of drugs as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised State budget for 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3451	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27, 28, 33, 37–39, 42 and 43, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up multidisciplinary subjects to assess measures for persons targeted for the use and possession of drugs.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further development of the needle and syringe scheme to become a low-threshold user with health services and follow-up.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate all forms of compulsiveness in the treatment of drug dependence.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up follow-up agreements as an alternative to prosecution and observation in the criminal record of young drug users.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a right for the addict to have a case handler/coordinator deal with throughout the course of treatment and follow-up.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to look at the possibility to prescribe, in situations where the determination is found to be precarious, to print prescriptions on methadone, subutex or subuxone pending the LAR intake investigation.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a contractual obligation between the treatment institution and the individual’s municipality of residence to ensure drug-related after-care from the first day following the end of the institution’.» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish appropriate grant schemes for the construction of housing for drug addicts.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3506	The proposals are then put to the vote. 55, 58, 59, 62 and 63, from the left. Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the focus on the youngest drug users through good and long-term child-restraint care, where good private measures must have binding agreements with the public.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate ‘rusaks’ in larger cities.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include a safe housing situation and other rehabilitation measures as part of the treatment and to provide binding state subsidies to stimulate municipalities to ensure that drug addicts receive adequate housing and rehabilitation services outside drug settings.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased efforts to combat harmful cannabis use, especially among the youngest. All cities and regions must receive a permanent and comprehensive offer of haze-finding.’» Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure better dental health for all rupees.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3545	There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the Party of Prosperity and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a case harmonising the law on coercion and to draw up national councils or guidelines on services.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3563	There is a vote on proposal No. 52, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the prompt introduction of a test procedure using Naloxon nasal spray to prevent overdose deaths.’ The right and left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3579	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 53, 57 and 60, from the left. Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the concept of ‘relative-assisted treatment’ and stimulating more flexibility and individual follow-up in the care of drug users, both in the day-to-day care and in the combination of outpatient and day-to-day care.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment and use of so-called ‘voluntary coercion’ in diurnal institutions, for example by agreeing with addicts that he may be detained for a certain period of time after the consent to the treatment has been withdrawn.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out various drug care pilot projects before the drug field is phased into the interaction reform’. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3607	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–21 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify the fight against drug trafficking on the Internet.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to ensure that funds for research are stepped up on the best-performing prevention measures against drug abuse.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for procedures to be developed to ensure good information and close contact with drug addicts.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a clear division of responsibilities and work between services in the field of mental health and drugs’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a safe housing situation to be part of the drug addict treatment process.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better follow-up of drug addicts during and after prison.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to enhance the competence of the government in the field of drug abuse at work.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken by the government to ensure that decision-makers and other elements of primary health services increase their competence in detecting drug problems among patients.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish its own prevention plan, with measures and funds aimed at reducing the number of young drug addicts.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate increased research and development of competences in the field of drug abuse.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the strengthening of the work of non-governmental organisations on drug prevention.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate and encourage municipalities and county municipalities to cooperate with non-governmental organisations in the prevention work at school and in other arenas.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a contingency plan for the drug field according to the model from the mental health escalation plan and to present it to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that patients entering emergency hospitalisations are given the opportunity to receive treatment immediately after the end of their stay at Rusakutten.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up so that all addicts who want to do so actually have an individual plan and that it be created in cooperation with the addict at an early stage in the course of treatment.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take action to ensure that the waiting time guarantee for children and young people is met.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget for 2013 with a phasing-out plan for LAR treatment.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that persons who wish to go from LAR treatment to complete drug-free treatment are given such an opportunity.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to put in place a system for municipalities to follow drug addicts who are receiving drug treatment instead of apologies or who are following drug treatment programmes in connection with their housing.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-profit actors participate in further planning processes in the field of drugs’. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to look at the experiences of Time Municipality in Rogaland, where they deliver a small business card on alcohol when purchasing pregnancy tests and start early monitoring of alcohol habits in pregnant women using standardised tools.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3816	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3825	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-18.ana.ud149e3950	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
