ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e46	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e53	On behalf of Elisabeth Aspaker, Gunnar Gundersen, Erna Solberg and myself, I would like to make proposals for the creation of a productivity commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e58	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1, 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e96	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e107	Today's debate is going on with a very serious backstop, namely an ongoing hostage situation in Algeria, and I would like to start the debate by saying that I know that for an overall committee, and of course also for an overall increase, the thoughts of those who are personally affected by the hostage situation in Algeria go. Norway held the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2012. We chose to focus on a sustainable welfare state in a Nordic perspective. Green growth and climate are important priorities that have been pursued by the Danish and Finnish Presidencies. In the field of foreign and security policy, the follow-up to the Stoltenberg report is central. Nordic cooperation is characterised by a great deal of activity in many areas – education, cultural cooperation, energy, environment, work, social and economics, to mention something. Work creates well-being in the Nordic region, as in Norway. When well over 100,000 Swedes stay daily in Norway to work, shape and influence our society perhaps more than ever before, and we note that Danish is also an increasingly common feature, especially in the hotel and restaurant industries in Norway. When these 100 000, hopefully many years of retirement, perhaps some of them experience a period of unemployment, perhaps some of them become dissatisfied, it is very important that the rights they have can be easily and smoothly coordinated in the Nordic region, regardless of where the individual citizen is staying. That's why it's very important to keep building down border barriers. At the same time, individual rights of well-being in the Nordic region are so different that I think it would be unrealistic to imagine that all rights will be equal, and thus all obstacles will be removed. I said that last year, and I want to repeat it now: the departments and underlying agencies should have as a routine to take the «frontier barrier test» on all new legislation and on all the procedures established, with the aim that being a Nordic citizen or an enterprise should be as simple as possible, and, of course, to prevent new barriers from occurring. The Nordic region was in many ways an inspiration for the EU when Europe was to develop and, as in many other parts of Europe, language, culture and common history were something that bound us together. The Nordic dimension remains important in the EU, and we have, for example: benefited in particular from close cooperation with EU presidencies when they have been Nordic – most recently the Danish Presidency in the spring of 2012. At the same time, there are differences and different challenges in the different Nordic countries. For us in Norway, which is governed by a red-green government, it is, of course, sometimes taken to political elections other than what a bourgeois government in Sweden does — as an example. But despite differences in politics, there is more that unites us than that divides, and there is stability in Nordic cooperation regardless of the political colour of governments in the different countries, and that's good. In the age of globalisation, the Nordics have a lot to contribute, and ambitions must be high. At the same time, competition continues. The fight to translate the good ideas into products that contribute to greater efficiency, better resource use and lower climate emissions is now under way. If the Nordics are to assert themselves in this competition, we must bet on our advantage and on knowledge-based industries. There is still a lot of work to be done, both in industry and in research. The declaration of solidarity proposed in the Stoltenberg report, followed by the Nordic Foreign Ministers, is an important milestone, as the Stortinget has also underlined several times. In a world of new security challenges and where the Nordic challenges are actually quite similar, it is important to cooperate. There is broad political support in the Nordic countries for cooperation in the field of defence and security policy. The concrete cooperation between training and practice is also increasing, as evidenced by the practical benefits of the defence, and that is good. There is an overall committee behind this. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Swedish Government delegation to the Nordic Council and wish the newly elected President, the representative of Nybakk, good luck with the work. The documents we are discussing here today show that it is both an active government and an active delegation that help to renew and further develop Nordic cooperation, including at parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e133	Other speakers from the Progress Party will discuss Nordic cooperation more specifically, so I just want to talk a little bit about the Arctic delegation, which was an innovation after the 2009 elections. We note the interest both here in the house and not least outside – in business, in the university environment, among organisations – an increasing activity in this area, so it has not been so difficult to employ the delegation with meaningful activities. For this is a delegation which does not, in terms of terms, have the same framework conditions as other delegations in the Grand Duchy, in the form that they do not have it internationally as for example. The Nordic Council delegation has. This is something we have discussed in the delegation and, as we will look forward to, how we can, in an even more meaningful way – not least – strengthen cooperation with the other Arctic countries, including for the whole delegation. As of today, only the Head of the Delegation participates in the transnational cooperation there. There is a lack of parliamentary cooperation of the Storting, perhaps especially related to the Arctic, which I want to address: our neighbourhood with Russia. If we use Nordic cooperation as an example, we have the opportunity to address practical challenges in border barriers and in the neighbourhood with Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland in a constructive and straightforward way. We know each other over time, and we meet often, in party groups and in other ways. We do not have the same opportunity with our Russian colleagues. We see good cooperation in the Barents region which is now celebrated for 20 years, where our northern regional elected representatives over many years have cooperated with their colleagues in the north-west Russian regions. We see that these regions in Russia have gained less and less importance and power, unfortunately. Our authorities have good administrative cooperation with Russia, but the cooperation between Stortinget and Dumaen and the Federation Council is sporadic. There is cooperation, but it is not characterised by the same kind of continuity as for example. the Nordic. I have received from different Russian teams requests about how we can improve it. It could be added, for example: the Arctic Delegation, or other – or foreign and defence committee as such. I think it would be a significant strengthening of our cooperation with Russia if we had regular meeting points with interested parties in Russia – in the Federation Council and the Duma – and discussed practical challenges related to our cooperation. And there's a lot of challenges, it's not going to get past. There are enough things to talk about when we meet our Swedish colleagues, not to talk about what we could think of talking about if we met the Russians. But it would be positive. It would have a damping and training effect on both sides. There I think there's something the Storting can work with. Then I will briefly mention Antarctica. It is an increasing political awareness of the importance of Antarctica. At the latest today, on the BBC, there was a report that addressed conflicting demands between Chile, Argentina and the United Kingdom. I think Antarctica is an area where Norway too has obvious interests. We in the Arctic delegation have said – maybe a little bit moody, but also with a little bit of seriousness – that we are a bipolar delegation, and have, as you can see, imagined that we also have a little eye in that area. But of course it's not that serious, because there's less political activity associated with it. In the end, when we also have some international challenges related to Arctic Councils – we're going to get back to it in an interpellation debate a little later today – it's not because we're critical of what's going on in Arctic Councils. On the contrary, we want more activity in Arctic Council. We want more of what's happening, and that's the main message also from the Arctic delegation of the Great Britain.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e150	The ongoing hostage action necessarily makes us look at this idyll of a place on the Earth where we are, north of Europe, and can focus on the more everyday questions about the development of Nordic cooperation that must be declared as very good in every sense. It is a homogeneous, politically stable and, welfarely speaking, developed region that is used as a good example in most other international forums. It will not cause us to take any rest when it comes to the wider outlook and the need to strengthen Nordic cooperation. It's a population small region, but you're the world of a geographic power it represents. With the challenges facing the Nordic region in every way – with the gigantic area under discussion, we are forced to strengthen and develop cooperation in monitoring, control, search and rescue, the environment, climate policy, technology, shipping, routes, satellite communications, navigation, etc. The same is true if we are to develop further synergies — then we need to be even better in foreign policy coordination. We are a major economic force in terms of aid policy and financial assistance. In this area, we still have a lot to do in terms of developing, coordinating and extracting mutual benefit, both for the recipient and the consignor of assistance and assistance. As far as the development of foreign stations is concerned, we are also in the process of coordinating and developing cooperation. There we have to have bolder targets than what we have been able to deliver so far. Also in the field of defence policy — NATO’s term ‘Smart Defence’ — the Nordic region is often used as a good example. There too, we need to coordinate the forces – see. my image on the large geographical region we are talking about, and everyone's interest in participating in the development of this geographically gigantic area – not to replace the Nordic region as a security defence network, but to exploit cooperation and benefits in technology, education and all the other areas of defence, justice and security. In communication, we have so much to go on. There is too little progress in the direction of east-west communication. Unfortunately, every Nordic, if he or she is not to enter into service, is more or less forced to cross the main points of the respective country in order to cross the border. This is not good enough if we're going to be able to develop our bold goals in the future. The representative of Höglund has been on the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. There is a strong need to develop parliamentary cooperation at the time we meet. There is an innovation in Stortinget this period – and others are experiencing what goals you have achieved – but I just want to say that here we need to take a closer look. We need to strengthen mutual parliamentary cooperation in Barents and the Nordic countries, and also between the directly and indirectly affected Arctic nations. Finally, I would like to say that the chairman of the parliamentary committee, Mr Höglund, has made a great deal of progress in bringing the Stortinge up and forward in this work, and it has been a mutual pleasure for all those who have participated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e167	Like that member of the Arctic delegation who may have been in the shortest possible time, I allow myself to give a little reflection on what I've had the pleasure of being in the work for the short time. As an introduction: Arctic cooperation dates back to the mid-1990s. It was that time, that now, environment and environmental cooperation were in focus. As the years have passed, the human dimension – the settlement in Arctic territory – has also become central, and we have received an Arctic University. Arctic cooperation on the environment and preparedness has also developed in a very positive direction, towards committed international cooperation. In particular, it concerns preparedness as the North-East and North-West passenger links are opened up, committed cooperation related to preparedness – but also moves towards committed cooperation in the environmental management of the Arctic region. It's very positive. It's taken into account, it's a knowledge-based, consistent management of the Arctic areas. Norway has gone ahead here by adopting a management plan for the Barents Sea and a management plan for the Norwegian Sea, based on vulnerable areas and environmental considerations. When I underline this, it is because I have experienced, in particular, the recent debate about entering the Lofoten and the Vestral and starting with exploration before completing the acquisition of knowledge, as a debate that is strongly opposed to the debate and themes that are central when we meet in the Arctic Council. There is no follow-up to the national debates on what we have committed ourselves to, and the responsibility we have in cooperation in the Arctic Council. The same applies when there are discussions about moving up polar areas — even up to the North Pole — in view of oil activities. There are debates that central actors in Norway face and are in stark contrast to the cooperation and responsibility of Norway in the Arctic Council. I say that we have a responsibility, because Norway also has the Secretariat of the Arctic Council, we have the administration in Tromsø. So, in addition to having gone ahead with the management plans that we ourselves have dealt with and adopted in the Storting, and which can certainly be a model of what the other Arctic states can contribute to, we also need to follow it up when we are conducting a debate on petroleum activities in the Arctic region, in the Arctic region, in terms of protecting vulnerable sea areas and laying the environment and sustainability at the heart of it. Finally, I would also like to stress what the representative Ivar Kristiansen said in his statement: Arctic cooperation is going to become more and more central in the years to come. I am absolutely convinced of that. It is important that the Storting has a parliamentary delegation in the Arctic Council, a permanent delegation that should be given priority and attention in the Stortinget. That is important, and we in SV will also support that. Finally, like the representative of Kristiansen, I would also like to commend the chairman of the committee, Morten Höglund, for having contributed to the excellent introduction of Arctic cooperation on the agenda of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e182	Nordic cooperation is primarily natural. Because it's natural, it's also usually positive. And that's important. It is a comprehensive community as a result of common languages, natural resource base, business, culture and climate. So Nordic cooperation is positive, but it needs more vitality. It needs more time to live. The political priorities within the Nordic region must be a good tool for most people. The major challenges are linked to two areas, in my opinion, namely the homogeneity of people, who are challenged every day in a negative direction, and the fact that we need to focus more on creating values, producing goods. It's through production, by creating, you get income to live off. We need to move from today's focus on financial economy to focus on real economy. The crisis within the European Union is now creating major challenges that almost are not being discussed within Nordic cooperation, and I think that is a great, great weakness. I want to focus on three things: business, geopolitics and frontier barriers. There's a lot of talk about green growth, and it says in the papers today that we need to use new concepts and new ideas. Yes, we are supposed to build industrial policy on roots and wings – anchoring and innovation. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Centre Party, more attention needs to be paid to the enormous, comprehensively renewable natural resources at sea and land in the Nordic region. When travelling in the Nordic countries — Sweden, Finland and Norway in particular — one cannot avoid seeing the huge forest resources that are there and that are currently being managed worse and worse. That's why it's hard for me to take over the words about green growth – when you have it until the degrees outside, outside your travel route – without doing anything powerful about it. Because it's obvious that we have to go in and complete our oil refineries with biorefineries. There is a need for business profitability, and economic incentives through financial capital are needed to achieve the necessary transformations – an important work that should be a much greater part of the green business development within Nordic cooperation. The geopolitical aspect is incredibly important, and from the centre we are very pleased with the increased emphasis on cooperation that is being put up for with the West-North. It is very important that we develop Nordic cooperation with the West North and Northwards significantly, because it is in our interest, and it is in our community. It is also essential that we have a good relationship with Russia and that we have a firmness in our action towards the European Union. It will be my assessment of the two superpowers near us. In the case of border barriers in the Nordic region, border barriers are mostly good for people; there is no significant problem. But the crisis in the European Union is now creating greater differences between people. There is a shortage of markets, shortages of jobs, and daily changes in working and business life are taking place that weaken the complacency – one of the trademarks of Nordic culture and the Nordic labour market. It's the working life that really creates culture. Everyday working life is much more important to culture than what emerges. Here we are facing some huge challenges. I have to say that in the area of frontier barriers, we cannot fail to draw the consequence that we are still living at a time when there should be the freest movement of labour and capital. It belonged to one time fashion. Current challenges require other solutions. For the Central Party, it is obvious that the free movement of labour and capital must be changed so that we can correct this, so that we get a more regulated movement of labour and capital. This is not what is called protectionism, this is what is called wisdom in relation to the challenges. National countries take the cost, then national states must also influence the framework conditions to a much greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e203	It is an interesting debate by the representative of Lundteg. If the free movement of people, services and capital is to be strengthened, it is difficult to see how this can happen without building up new and large border barriers between the Nordic countries. I believe that a total accumulation so many times has been confirmed is not desirable that it should be answered in the name of it. Nordic cooperation has an enormous potential, a much greater potential, I would claim, than what has been exploited. We have a community in the Nordic region around what is often called the Nordic model: ambitious welfare schemes, good family schemes combined with high professional activity, a cooperation culture in the labour market and a sustainable growth model. The Nordic model is all the reason for lifting up at a time when very many people outside the Nordic region are looking to the Nordic region. I think it's great that next month you have a whole month of Nordic and Nordic culture in Washington, D.C., with 700 Nordic artists in action in Nordic Cool. That's one way to think about which I think we should have more of; to point out what we have in the North that very many will be interested in. But I think we need to renew both visions and practices, and that should happen along two important but well-known criteria. Firstly, focus and target our work towards what has common Nordic utility. It's much more than what we're working on today, which could have common Nordic benefit, and there's my experience that if it's put on the agenda and worked systematically with those responsible, something happens. That's what happened in defense, where the Nordic defence chiefs built a relationship between and pragmatically and practically went into the task: to see where the common Nordic utility lies. We see what dynamics have come out of it. The same thing has happened in the health field in the past, and I'm sure that if you go into their respective fields in a practical way and look at common Nordic benefits, the potential is much, much larger than what we're taking out today. Secondly, the rights of the northern inhabitants, i.e.: freedom from looting and stealing when you move across borders in the Nordic region. This is a Sisyphos work called the barrier work. It has to be done every day. It cannot be done with shipper's roof, it cannot be done with committees and commissions, but it must be done every day, and it must be done in the departments and in the ministries of each country. I want to draw attention to a tool that I believe is undervalued in this work, and it is the duties of any administrative body to prepare matters by assessing the impact of the proposals they promote – the investigation guide. The Directorate of Administration and ICT reported in a report in May last year that the investigation instructions as they are are are not properly complied with by the departments. It requires environmental, business, district, health, equality and human rights assessments of all proposals submitted for decisions in the departments and in political bodies, in the government and at the end of the Grand Duchy. I would challenge the Council of State to respond to whether there is no reason to consider whether this frontier barrier test proposed by the case rapporteur could be entered with much greater strength than the few traces of the one contained in today's investigation manual. It says to look at legal implications, etc., but there are very great opportunities to put frontier barriers on the agenda in practical, everyday work, and that test must be taken and passed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e216	One day with a demanding situation in Algeria, we are going to debate a year-long cooperation with our Nordic neighbouring countries, a cooperation that has been and will be important for the development of our region. Norway has just completed an active Presidency year in the Nordic Council of Ministers. During this period, we have increased focus on the Nordic welfare state and the challenges we face together in the Nordic region. We welcome the continuation of this focus by Norway, under its Presidency of the Nordic Council in 2013. In addition to the welfare state, the Norwegian Presidency has a Nordic perspective on priority environment and climate and Nordic cohesion. Under our presidency, we have raised health and welfare-related issues, and we have been given renewed attention to cross-border work in all Nordic countries. When the Nordic prime ministers were gathered in Lofoten at their summer meeting, they agreed on closer health cooperation. Nordic Health Ministers are now working concretely on projects that will benefit Nordic citizens and have considerable Nordic relevance. There have been conferences on various aspects of youth unemployment and absenteeism from work and education. This has contributed to the exchange of experience and the development of new initiatives. The work on border barriers has been central to the Presidency year. In the big news we describe the status of the proposals made in the debate in Stortinget last April. The Expert Working Group on Labour and Social Affairs, which presented its report last year, has made a significant contribution to finding solutions to the specific obstacles to the border. The Norwegian Presidency set up a working group to develop an action plan for the future work on border barriers. The working group will also look at the organisation, such as: Border Obstacle Forums. The term of office of the Forum shall expire this year. The plan is for a Council of Ministers proposal to be presented during the session to be held here in Oslo in October. The solution to frontier barriers is important not only to ensure the rights of Nordic citizens but also to provide good framework conditions for business. From the Norwegian side, we will support and prioritise this work in the coming year. During the last year’s debate on cross-border barriers, the Stortinget presented eight proposals presented in the Report. St. 34. The follow-up work is continuous. The Moroccan border service has been working for more than ten years to provide information to those crossing the border. The 10th anniversary was celebrated together with all border disabled people in the Nordic countries. Stakeholders do an important job at local level and meet citizens where the challenges arise. The Nordic professional association has also put Nordic employee organisations' rights on the agenda. A 40-year cooperation was selected in Ålesund in September. In Nordic cooperation, we work for a sustainable and decent working life. It is not least important in economically challenging times. There has been a great deal of activity in the field of language and culture in 2012. In 2013, the Nordic Council will award for the first time a Children’s and Youth Literature Prize. Increased focus on Nordic children — and young people — in language and culture is important for future Nordic cooperation and has a value in itself. The Nordic Council of Ministers took an active part in the Rio+20 conference in June 2012 and organised, among others,: a ministerial dialogue on eco-labelling, seminars on sustainable food production and on equality and sustainability. These events are good examples of how the Nordic countries can contribute internationally with their experience while strengthening the common Nordic brand name of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable region. The work on new guidelines for cooperation with North-West Russia and the Baltic countries began under our presidency. The Nordic representation offices in the Baltic countries will be included in this assessment. The aim is to present a proposal by the Council of Ministers at the session in October. We will work a lot next year with a priority budget and adapt the budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers to the assumptions made in each country. It is going to be a demanding job, which I would like to invite the Nordic Council delegation here in Norway to actively contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e253	In recent times, there has been a relative consensus here in Stortinget on what should be Norwegian policy in relation to Nordic cooperation. Therefore, I did not fail to notice that the Council of State listened carefully to the statements made by the representative Lundtigen. Lundtigen is an important player in red-green cooperation and an important co-operation partner for the Council of State in the development of Nordic policy. The representative Lundtigen wants to strengthen Nordic cooperation with a focus on the nation state, with increased regulation of the movement of labour and capital between the Nordic countries. Do state councils, like Lundtägen, see close cooperation, the exchange of labour, tourism, trade, students and capital as a threat to both Nordic cooperation and the nation state?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e261	I think Nordic cooperation has helped us to develop our region in a very good way. The fact that over decades we have been able to exchange labour when the various countries have needed it has been a good thing. So it's, like in every area, so you have to be aware of any negative consequences of such cooperation. But from the situation we have in the Nordic countries today, I don't feel that we need to build new barriers between our Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e268	Let me first begin by thanking the Council of State for her contributions and her last reply do not bear any degree of inspiration from the statements of the representative Lundtigen. It's reassuring. I really had another main question. After the Council of State now has one year's experience of being a Nordic Minister of Cooperation – it's called MR-SAM, for cooperation: how co-ordinating and how decisive is the Council of Ministers? There have been questions in the past whether one should not be a little more decisive in terms of employment, whether one should not get more policy up when the councils meet, and whether one should not deal with matters a little earlier than the government's possible consensus. It can solve a main problem, namely that it takes a very long time with things in the Nordic Council. I've been in the council for two periods now – with certain interruptions – and the impression is that it's going well, but it's going very, very slowly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e275	I share Foss’ impatience in many ways after getting things done through Nordic cooperation in a faster way. Then it's demanding -- we're not going to hide it -- because a lot of things are going to be checked out between five governments, and it's also challenging to get enough meetings where we're going to sign out. In my leadership of the Nordic Council of Ministers, I have been concerned that we should raise several issues for political consideration. Well, we're kind of ready to do that. We've been working a lot on the budget. But it is demanding to meet all the challenges that lie in finding practical ways for, among other things. to endorse the recommendations that come from the Council's deliberations in our ongoing work. But I agree with the representative Foss that it must be an objective that we should manage to raise even more issues and have a political debate about them, including in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e284	I thank you for your answer and would like to say that I believe that the Council of State has quite broad political support, at least in the Norwegian Parliament. But it's probably not to hide that there's a slightly different political enthusiasm for Nordic cooperation between the nation states. Now you go into a period where you are charged – or at least you have imposed yourself – with a certain budget line. It means that you have to look into the work of other ministers, and that's when I ask the question: how coordinating is MR-SAM? If you want to intervene in areas and say that you have to cut a part of a budget, do you perhaps have to do so in areas that count – not just cut with so-called cheese needs, which means zero political priority, but that areas that are priority areas can be hit as hard as other areas? So, how coordinating and where in general is MR-SAM in relation to other ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e291	In the budgetary field, I believe that the role of coordination is quite clear. I share Foss’ intention that when implementing the budget cuts in the Nordic Council of Ministers, it should be possible to say which tasks are not to be carried out. I'm not much of a fan of doing "hospital." It makes sense that in some contexts you can also look at whether you can reduce, for example: administrative expenditure, and then the cheese needs may be the case. But in a situation where we're going to bring down our budget in the order of 100 million. kr over a few years, it will be necessary for us to be able to reach agreement on work tasks we will stop doing, institutions we will no longer operate – if we are to carry out such a large cut in a way that does not hamper what is the intention of Nordic cooperation: to operate institutions and cooperation that are relevant to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e298	In the Nordic Council, we have now worked for a while on measures to strengthen Nordic transport cooperation across borders. I myself am the case rapporteur, and I have been the case rapporteur together with Torstein Rudihagen, who is also from Norway, and we have among others. have been visited and visited by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Denmark and wish to visit and meet several ministers. We have also asked the Norwegian Minister for Transport to have a meeting to discuss these matters that we are discussing with her Nordic counterparts. As far as I have registered, we have not even received an answer as to whether we are allowed to meet the minister, and it is starting to be well over half a year ago – that was a long time before summer – we asked about it. We have not registered having received any response, and we have not received any meeting. Then I would like to ask the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, who is from Norway, who will do this: is she satisfied that the government ignores the work of the Nordic Council in this way, and will she, as Minister for Cooperation, take it up with the government and ensure respect for the Nordic Council in Norway as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e305	It is difficult for me to comment on the background of not having been able to hold a meeting, but when it is addressed here in Stortinget, I will of course discuss it with my colleague, the Minister for Transport, and remind you that a meeting is required between the Nordic Council delegation and the Minister for Transport. So I would say that we have a lot of good cooperation on the Nordic level also in the field of transportation. A very visible example is what we were given in connection with Svinesundsbrua, but representatives of the Nordic Council delegation and in Stortinget have in the past also mentioned developments – which are demanding – linked to Ofotbanen. There are now good dialogues between the transport authorities in Sweden and Norway, and also in other areas, there is good cooperation between the ministries of transport in the Nordic countries. It's also important, I think, that other parts of our region are being drawn into a transport perspective. In particular, the north areas are concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e312	Now that the Ofotban is mentioned, it is appropriate to ask the Minister of Cooperation a new question. We see that the Swedish government has actually granted money to put the tracks on the Swedish side. You want it, and you're pretty proactive towards Norway to try and get this done. It stands and falls with Norway in this system. The newspaper today read that the Ministry of Transport has said it should not enter the national transport plan now. Then we also see in the paper today that in Narvik, LKAB has scrapped a project for 2 billion. kr for development because Norway is not allowed to do its part. We also see that the same thing happens in Sweden, that you're about to scrape projects up there, which means a lot for the regions and border barriers. So my question to the Minister of Cooperation is, can she guarantee, now that she talks so positively about Ofotbanen, that she goes in and makes sure that Norway doesn't become the biggest barrier in the Nordic region ever?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e321	The representative, Tjäldal, is aware that the government is currently working on a new national transport plan, and that is where we will of course consider all the good proposals and projects that will be useful. It's a work that's going on in the government now. We will present a case for the Storting where we will have a good opportunity to discuss the individual priorities that need to be addressed in the transport sector. Of course, I have to follow up on the Nordic issues. There are several transport corridors that also face cross-border challenges, and there will also be some of what we look at in the work on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e326	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is the representative of Tore Nordtun, who is the rapporteur on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e331	It is as the President says: I am the rapporteur for case No. 1, on parliamentary cooperation in the Arctic, and it is now time to be able to present this report. It's not big in the number of sheets, but it's good in the content. It also shows the activity that has been in this collaboration, and our delegation has done this work in an excellent way, with the head of the delegation at the head. It is active in many areas. There are eight permanent members in this important cooperation today and there have been six permanent observers since the establishment of the Arctic Council in 1996. There are today 12 applications for observer status. This says quite a lot about the interest and activity here, and about the importance this area will have in the future, not just for Norway, but for everyone who has an interest in and who sees the development of the area. Here's a great development. We have a lot of new challenges ahead of us, but we also have an extraordinarily large number of new opportunities, and these are the opportunities we have to seize. We also have issues on which we need to discuss and support the government on an ongoing basis, and it is in the areas of the environment, monitoring, control of shipping, research, education, tourism, security and not least rescue. All of this is complex and important to us in the future, and it is important to have good cooperation and to make agreements with the countries that are being affected. It is important that we put a footprint and focus on the fact that there are really international regulations that apply, including: in the field of marine law. It's a pleasure that the government has now, fortunately, put in place the new dividing line, and a lot has been cleaned up. If we look ahead, Arctic Council is now considerably strengthened by the establishment of the permanent secretariat, which is added to Tromsø. The question of new permanent observers in the Arctic Council will be clarified in less time, and that is also important. It must also be mentioned that the Arctic countries will sign an agreement on oil protection. It is imperative to put this in place and to get an oil protection solution that is good enough and that can meet challenges in new forms of activity, especially on the environmental side. We need to be able to do this better so that we can meet the challenges, and that's all right. The permanent cooperation in the Arctic helps to strengthen and support the work of the Stortinget, and the work of the government, in order to get rules of play and driving rules in an area that is important in the future and that needs to be properly handled in an environmental way, so that we can see our descendants in the eyes. Finally, I would like to mention that the agreements that have been made in the fisheries sector, including: with Russia, has had a tremendous impact on the entire resource base and the growing environment for fish in the major pelagic areas. This has given us a new resource that has the time ahead, which enables us to fish in a proper and good way, and that we have a control system that will take care of this in the future. These agreements are examples of follow-up and testify that more cooperation and more agreements are needed – we need to talk more together. Finally, it is important to say that the voltage does not have to be increased in this area. The tension in the area needs to be reduced, and it is important that in all fields we run a cooperation line and an agreement line, so that it becomes an area where we work together in deportability and for the benefit of all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e347	As a member of the Stortinget delegation to the Nordic Council for many years, I would argue that Nordic cooperation has experienced a new spring in recent years. This has happened by the fact that more and more of the parliamentarians in the Nordic countries have seen the importance of closer cooperation with neighbouring countries. At the same time, this has probably come because many saw that cooperation had evolved in the wrong direction, it had become little dynamic, and not least lacked the anchoring of the Nordic citizens. In addition, it is not surprising that integration between the Nordic countries has become more dense and denser, and very many issues relating to many inhabitants have been updated. In Norway, we have experienced in recent years that very many Swedes have come here to work, while wanting to keep their ties with the home country. Then there are many problems. Many Nordics have moved to Sweden to live cheaper, and thousands of Norwegians travel daily to Sweden to trade cheaply to secure a better economy. The Øresund region has become one of the most dynamic regions in Europe with enormous exchanges of people, knowledge and trade. Sydsvensker sees Copenhagen as its capital. This region shows how important it is to have a modern transport system in place between the Nordic countries. Here it is not surprising that we in Norway have a significant way to go in terms of our travel routes to Sweden. I would like to highlight the important work done by the Border Service in helping job-seekers and others facing challenges. At the same time, the Border Service is an important part of identifying border barriers. The border services should be strengthened by putting in place more staff so that they can provide better service to citizens. Border barriers work is one of the most important areas of Nordic cooperation because it affects the daily lives of ordinary citizens. The work should be strengthened, and I am positive about the work of setting up a separate Ombudsman. It is also appropriate to assess whether a separate office should be set up in which citizens can contact. 2013 will be an important year when Norway heads the Nordic Council with President and Vice-President, not least because we will soon also have a Norwegian Secretary-General in the Nordic Council of Ministers. This obligates. Time should be spent well, and we must put important issues on the agenda of parliamentary cooperation. Of these, the following matters should be clear: There should be Nordic leadership in the development of the northern regions. We should continue to work on removing a significant number of border barriers, and Norway has to take the lead here. We need to focus on increasing innovation and the creation of small businesses in future-oriented industries, so that the Nordic region becomes one of the world's leading innovative regions. We must fight against the drop-out in higher education – this is one of the most important struggles we can wage – and against youth unemployment, so that we do not have a lost generation, as we now see in southern Europe. If we succeed in facilitating this in the coming year, we have succeeded in the work we can contribute to, from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e373	In his speech, Per Olaf Lundtigen said that Nordic cooperation works well because it's a natural collaboration. It can then be – geographically – and unlike Lundtigen, I believe that the welfare state in the Nordic countries is quite similar and tolerates any comparison with that in the European country. However, it also implies recognising that the political priorities of the other Nordic countries may be different from those of your own. Lundtigen said he was not satisfied with the fact that the issues of debate in the Nordic Council were little about the EU's financial problems. That's right, they're going to be solved elsewhere. Therefore, this is to a small extent a topic of debate that separates or unites the Nordic Council. It is also likely that some countries have views on forest management in Sweden, Norway and Finland that do not harmonize with Lundtigen’s, but some of the price you have to pay for cross-border cooperation is that not everyone agrees with one. I also record that there is little inspiration to pick up from Lundtigen's contributions on what the government thinks about Nordic cooperation or European cooperation. To Nordic cooperation, as is currently the case: there has been some revitalisation of cooperation by increasing the involvement of security, defence and foreign affairs in Nordic cooperation. Despite the lack of cooperation between the Council of Ministers in these areas, the Nordic Council nevertheless continues to lead these issues to debate. That makes the debate in many ways more vital and more interesting. I want to say that we in the Right are positive about the fact that practical and pragmatic cooperation in the field of defence has developed very strongly – and there is still a need to go further. I will give the former Minister of Defence all the credit for this. My impression is that this cooperation is going well because it stems from common needs in the different countries, and that it happens in a way that is more powerful than weakens our NATO connection. If I'm going to be a little bold, I'd say that rarely has all the Nordic countries been closer to NATO than after the practical cooperation within NORDEFCO has evolved. Also in the field of foreign affairs, there is a certain degree of northernization. I now see that the ‘quick step’ has been taken to establish common embassies and to plan new ones. I don't think it makes any difference if this work gets a greater speed – it's possible that budget cuts can provoke it – I think the good experience might indicate that it's a sensible way to go. So to frontier barriers, which I still think is a problem in Nordic context. Contrary to what has been pointed out in previous articles, I think there is quite a broad consensus that there are some obstacles that still require attention. In the same debate last year in Stortinget, proposals were made for simpler rules for customs clearance of machinery, which will make it practically possible to cooperate across borders in the Nordic region. The work on finding common rules – based on the Storing Communication – takes time. It has been entrusted to the charging authorities. It's at least my experience that it takes a very long time. This is where the Nordic drive is small. As regards the harmonisation of study aid, it is recognised that there is a different perception of existing agreements. This is interesting because it says that the Norwegian State Council will take the initiative to clarify it. I am pleased, but I would also like to say that it is necessary for the clarification of the question to be submitted to the Stortinget. I think it's pretty broad that in the field of study, the Nordics should be a single market. I think it strengthens all Nordic countries that we get the opportunity to move across borders even in the study period, and that study support facilitates it. This is an example of the fact that the proposal for a Nordic ombudsman regime to interpret the legal rights of citizens under Nordic conventions and agreements is very interesting. I hope that the Council of State will be a driver so that it will not take too long before this is clarified. I do not think you need to look for a direct copy of existing ombudsmen's arrangements in, for example. Norway, but a system can be found that meets the needs of citizens, for example: something like a civil ombudsman arrangement on a Nordic basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e395	With the seriousness of Algeria as a backstopper, I want to start with a few words about the situation there – before I go into the topic that is on the agenda today. I would first like to say that since early yesterday morning – throughout the day yesterday and today – I have been in close contact with the head of the Foreign and Defence Committee of the Stortinge. The organs of the largest population will be kept properly informed. I would also like to say that the situation is still very serious and unclear. We do everything in our power to facilitate the fastest possible and best possible solution, in close contact with the employer of those who are still hostages, i.e. Statoil, whom I also do a very good job in this situation. We have sent a call-out team – now established in Algeria – to strengthen our diplomatic presence. We have a 24-hour crisis loss that draws on all relevant departments, services and agencies to facilitate this. We are in close contact with the Algerian authorities, and we are in close contact with the other countries that have hostages in Algeria, with the clear message that everything done and will be done must be done in order to prevent any of the hostages from being injured or killed. We'll get back to this in an appropriate way. Then to the theme of the day. As has been said by many who have spoken, there are long lines of good Nordic cooperation. What is new in this year’s Communication is first of all the increased emphasis placed on Nordic cooperation as part of European policy, on the backbone of a Europe in crisis – the importance of stressing the experience gained by the Nordic countries as a whole from the model of society in each country, and from cross-country cooperation over many decades. The emphasis has been on proximity, trust, small differences, gender equality, a modern welfare state and tripartite cooperation in the workplace. The other thing that's different from the past is that from the government we're now going through the status of the eight proposals that have come, to reduce frontier barriers. Special emphasis is placed on the adaptation of workers from other Nordic countries who are at the heart of this. It is clearly in our common interest – fewer border barriers are in everyone's interest. At the same time, I would like to remind you that much of this work is also being done between the same five countries in other organs. All Nordic countries are part of the EEA, for example, and very much of this work belongs there. So it's not just in the formal sense of Nordic cooperation that the Nordic countries are working together to reduce different types of border barriers, but it's an important Nordic dimension in it. We need to strengthen it and move on. I would also like to say that there has been a very positive development in foreign, defence and security cooperation in the Nordic region. I think it's important to underline – as among other things. The representative Foss was just here – that it has become as good as it has been because it has been in a pragmatic way. It has not happened because someone sat down and decided that it would be like this – it has grown on the platform that the close and good cooperation had initially created. In addition, the traditional barriers to Nordic defence policy cooperation, which differed in security policy and alliances, have been dismantled. So we've had growing will and fewer constraints. That room has been filled, especially since the second half of last decade. This first began as a special Norwegian-Swedish cooperation and quickly became a Norwegian-Swedish-Finnish cooperation. I am pleased to say that this is now something that is happening to a very large extent between all Nordic countries, and which is increasingly on the way into Nordic cooperation, more traditionally defined. There are also strong leads to Nordic-Baltic cooperation. This involves extensive cooperation on material development and acquisitions, extensive cooperation on military exercises and increased cooperation on practical arrangements for joint participation in operations. That's very good. Foreign policy cooperation has been strengthened. Already it has been mentioned the work of co-location of embassies and embassy offices – so far in Yangon, Islamabad, Hanoi and Dhaka, but more will come. There's a lot of interest in looking at the possibilities there. There is an increasing interest outside the Nordic region in this Nordic cooperation. In addition to the Nordic-Baltic, we now see the outlines of an increased dialogue with another regional grouping, namely the Visegrad countries: Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. In the near future, there will also be a joint foreign-ministerial meeting between the Nordic-Baltic-Visegrad countries, not because this will be a new organisation, but because you want to learn from Nordic experiences. I would like to express great satisfaction with the strong commitment shown by Members of Parliament. I want to thank you for your cooperation so far, and I look forward to the continuation. I would like to underline the good work done both in general and not least within the Arctic region by the representative of Höglund. I want to say that here we are definitely at the beginning of something we can call 'a new spring' in Nordic cooperation, but it will be most successful if we understand that it is the pragmatic approach – to do more where there is more need – that leads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e421	The practical cooperation in the Nordic region is a matter of course, and embassies can get this going. Political cooperation is more demanding – perhaps it is to stand together in the outside world. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre thought of a common Nordic application for e.g. G20. We have a cooperation in membership of the Security Council, i.e. we support each other's candidacy. Now the Nordic candidates have not been equally successful in recent times. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that there is a potential there, or does it stop when we reach that kind of big policy – partly because someone is a member of the EU, or because we have defined different interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e428	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for an important and good question. I definitely mean that we're not going to set any limits on what we can try to get to. I now experience Nordic foreign policy cooperation, the close contact between foreign ministers and foreign ministries, as a strengthening of the work that some of us do in the EU, some in NATO and all in the United Nations. We coordinate to take common positions. We've done the same before, but it's more and more. It is increasingly obvious to me that this cooperation is not an alternative to these other organisations we are in, but a deepening and strengthening of that cooperation. I want us to look for new opportunities to exploit it in the future as well. I would also like to inform you that we now under Finnish leadership have a thorough review of what happened when Finland, and not Sweden, was elected to the Human Rights Council, to see if there is anything we can do with Nordic cooperation in promoting each other's candidatures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e437	Some claim – with some fear as a backstop – that the development of the economy in Arctic strips will take place in good time before policy developments are in place, that traffic rules and driving rules for the many demanding environmental, climate and rescue measures are in place. Reference is made to the fact that the Arctic Council has adopted an important policy document in cooperation for the development of a search and rescue service in the Arctic. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Is there any reason to fear that a massive economic activity is in place in Arctic strips before we have a robust search and rescue service in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e444	I think we should seize the opportunities that are now there for increased industrial development and new jobs both in the fisheries, oil and gas, transport and mineral extraction, desirable. This is very good news for our own northern regions and for the other countries involved in Arctic cooperation, in Nordic cooperation in the north and in Barents cooperation. We should not fear that, but rejoice over it. There is also a strong emphasis on why it is important to have closer cooperation on concrete issues, such as: search and rescue, oil protection and clear driving rules for the interface between e.g. extraction of fish and marine resources versus oil and gas. But that's something that's positive and joyous, and that makes this remain the government's main strategic focus even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e451	I thank you for your answer. I want to draw attention to the Stoltenberg report, which was launched in 2009. I will not inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs of a report which he knows much better than I signed. Here it was pointed out in clear order that there was necessarily a need for Nordic cooperation in such a gigantic and difficult region, where, in particular, the technology challenges were going to be demanding, not least economically, and that each country would not be able to meet the challenges that technology requires. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether he thinks the development and follow-up of Stoltenberg's report and doctrines are happening quickly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e460	I am very pleased that we, together with our neighbours, have delivered on most of the points that were both in the Stoltenberg report and in other reports and proposals that actually came before the Stoltenberg report, among others. between the Nordic Defence Departments and the Heads of Defence in this context. We were busy getting a better sharing of the aerial image. It happens. We agreed to get a better sharing of the information about what happened at sea. That's why we've put BarentsWatch in place and worked on the further development of it. There are considerably more exercises of a more traditional nature, but also in search and rescue-like operations in the north. So there's a lot of activity in that area. Then we should all think that we're always going to do more, because the activity is moving fast. The measures also take place quickly, but it is important that they are linked in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e468	The Foreign Minister had a good description of the enormous dynamism that has been in the development of Nordic defence cooperation over the last few years. It is a development that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence take note of with great joy. At the same time, there is a significant opportunity for learning in this. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether he will do something to evaluate the developments we have seen, in terms of learning about Nordic cooperation in general. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that this cooperation is now at full speed in as an ordinary part of Nordic cooperation. I take note of that with joy. Will he take any initiative, or will something happen on the learning side?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e475	I would like to, and I look forward to working with the new Secretary-General of the Nordic Council of Ministers on precisely those questions, because I think there is actually something to learn. I think there is something in it that this cooperation was between those who were driving these questions to daily, and that there was nothing that happened elsewhere. I think that was absolutely essential both to create ownership, to bring the right ideas and to have the executive power. Without my conclusion, I think it's a very good idea to learn from it for other parts of Nordic cooperation. I think it actually requires that we recognise that while Nordic cooperation arose at a time when perhaps one could see that this was a primary reference framework for international cooperation between Member States, it is now an important complement and a deepening of cooperation that takes place in other European and transatlantic associations. When we recognize it, we can cultivate the qualities of the Nordic, which are close, pragmatic, and practical.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e482	Now the foreign minister has gone through the excellence of Nordic cooperation, so I thought I would try another angle and ask if there is a relationship in Nordic cooperation with which the foreign minister is not satisfied, and where he sees a clear potential for improvement – or is everything almost perfect?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e487	The answer to that was a little embedded in my previous answer, because when I say that something is going very well, it is probably a bit in the extension of it that there are other things that could have gone both faster and even more concrete. I think the purpose here, more than hanging out sectors that don't work, is to emphasize that here we can look at those who have had a particular dynamics, and try to see why they have had a particular dynamics, and whether there's something we can learn from it. I do not want to say that all other areas of cooperation can necessarily copy the field of defence and security policy, but I think, as I said, there is something to learn. And I think again, a little to repeat, it's important to understand the place of Nordic cooperation in the larger architecture in which all the countries are involved. All the Nordic countries are either wholly or partly in NATO, and all the Nordic countries, if I may allow myself to say so, are in full or in part in the EU, and all are in the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the United Nations, to name a few. Then we have to lay the foundation for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e492	Border barriers between Sweden and Norway in the case of Ofotbanen are a theme that has existed in the past. Your predecessor Gahr Støre did a good job and took the Swedish minister to Malmbanen, put him in the problem and looked at the problem to try to solve it early. It's fine. Now it's on the Norwegian government. The Swedes have granted $4.5 billion. kr in total in the package and Finland has done its job. It is now only in Norway. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, will you follow up on the same track as your former predecessor did, to stand on and make sure that Norway does not become a frontier barrier and that this can be one of the greatest opportunities for development in the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e499	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e502	I will first underline, for the sake of order, that Jonas Gahr Støre is my present predecessor, not my «former predecessor», and otherwise that the answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e510	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for spending some of his precious time briefing us on the situation in Algeria, which is a very gloomy backdrop for this debate. It is now 60 years since the first session of the Nordic Council was held. It was in February 1953, in Copenhagen. The Head of Delegation was Einar Gerhardsen. In the anniversary of the vote in 2013, we might notice that 2 out of 16 Norwegian delegates were women. So that's 60 years ago. I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee's position makes it so clear that Nordic cooperation is stronger and covers more areas than ever before. And I want to add, as many have been involved before today, that Nordic cooperation is also more dynamic than for a long time, as the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council in 2013 has ambitions to strengthen. I also want to refer to previous articles. Different approaches and different links with Europe despite Nordic cooperation are increasing and have become both more dynamic and more focused. I have noticed that the government writes in its communication that the European integration process has become a common framework for policy and regulatory development in the Nordic countries. Nordic cooperation within the EU/EEA is currently one of the most important Nordic cooperation instruments. It's very clear words, but almost quote from what's in the message. This is also recorded by the Foreign Affairs Committee in the configuration of the notification. The Nordic Council has also adopted a Europe strategy. We are trying to have an annual meeting in addition to following up matters more systematically with the European Parliament. In fact, Nordic cooperation can provide added value in the formulation of European policies. There is a red thread from the Nordic Council of Ministers programme in 2012 to Norway's Presidency Programme for the Nordic Council in 2013. The work of ensuring that we still have sustainable, robust welfare states in the Nordic region is central. We must seek to meet the challenges of today's framework conditions. I agree with what the report says about this. In our Presidency programme, we talk about an effective Nordic region with a healthy development of welfare states and a well-functioning Nordic labour market without unnecessary existing or new frontier barriers. Through systematic political work, the Nordic countries have shaped our societies into a model that is increasingly in demand around the world, and as the UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme, in its annual reports, on an ongoing basis for the best countries to live in. This is an economic model in which we create values and then share them, where the private sector is regulated by the state, and where there are large welfare states with universal rights. We have a labour market where the state plays a role with the social partners, which has also created growth and stability, and where we have high female employment. Part of gender equality policy, yes, of course, but that girls work also creates growth and development. Let me add that gender equality, gender roles and family policy are actually among the most important export items in the Nordic region today, and something that is also very much at work on the cultural side. Youth unemployment and education policy were important themes of the Nordic Council in 2012. At the Helsinki session, an important side event was organised, a seminar, on the theme, where Norwegian Anna Ljunggren was an important driver. We were proud of that, the rest of us. I want to work on behalf of the Presidency to hold a major educational policy conference, where we look at school drop-outs, how education can be better adapted to work life and to the synchronisation of education from individual countries. Recognition of each other's professional training and competence is also an EEA matter. There is also something that the Minister of Knowledge has responded to when you have taken this up with her, and she wants to see what happens in Brussels at the same time. Once again, Nordic border barriers are also a very important part of what is happening in the EEA. The Norwegian programme has also focused on health policy. In the whole sector, we will work in particular to ensure that small groups with rare diagnoses can be better treated by focusing on building skills on different diseases. Then you need more, and then you need to work together in the Nordic region. It is also a goal to obtain a register that can capture health professionals who are blacklisted in Nordic countries. I think this is something that people in the Nordic region would appreciate the Nordic Council adopting. I think maybe this is where most people, if you can use that expression, feel like the Nordic Council is doing something that they think is important in everyday life. So, the big picture highlights the importance of language understanding among children and young people in Nordic cooperation. I am aware that the Nordic Association implements measures that have had a positive effect, including: Nordic visits to children’s and high school students. Such offers require a foreseeable economic situation. As the Foreign Minister also stressed, and others, the most dynamic cooperation in the Nordic region is currently taking place in the field of foreign, defence and security policy. The Nordic countries have different security-policy anchorages. Some are members of the EU, but not of NATO. Others are in NATO, but not in the EU. Denmark is a member of both organisations but does not participate in EU defence policy. On the other hand, Norway, which is not a member. This is complicated. Nevertheless, Nordic defence cooperation is increasing within the framework of, and with respect for, the alliance policies of each country. Different defence policy anchoring thus does not prevent close and good security policy cooperation during a dynamic period of Nordic cooperation. I believe it is important that the Nordic Council strengthens the cooperation on security policy. It should also include preparedness and social security. We live at a time when asymmetric warfare is the most serious threat. It is positive that the Nordic Foreign Ministers agreed in November 2011 at the meeting in Copenhagen to establish Nordic cooperation on digital security. Social security requires an increased focus on civil-military cooperation and perhaps also a debate on Defence as an operational civil protection resource. Nordic cooperation on preparedness and social security needs to be clarified and activated. Experience in Norway after July 22nd and the report on this issue indicate that at least some parts of our society are too poorly prepared for the new threats. It's all about everything from how hospitals work to whether we can draw on each other's entire vessel capacities, logistics solutions, etc. Nordic Defense Cooperation – NORDEFCO – was established in 2009. The structure includes cooperation on, inter alia: purchases and capacities. I know that opportunities for Nordic cooperation on tactical transport aircraft are being explored. Strategic development, education and training are also included. In fact, NORDEFCO has gradually gained great international visibility. It has to be seen in the light of increased international focus and cooperation with ever-lowering defence budgets. I want to show that both NATO's Smart Defense and the EU's 'pooling and sharing' are expressions of this, and the Nordics are going ahead and showing the way. Then I would like to add that the Norwegian Presidency will take the initiative of a Round Table on Defence Policy in good time before the autumn session, where ministers can present their presentations to parliamentarians. Finally, as parliamentarians, we must also take policy back into Nordic cooperation and take responsibility for it. It is the policy that has shaped the Nordic communities. It is the policy that has made them the world's best country to live in, both for men and for women. It is the policy that will take us further and ensure continued sustainability in the Nordic model. And let me add that it must also apply to the Council of Ministers, and I look at the forthcoming Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers. It is not always the case that officials bring matters to the various Councils and Ministers as soon as possible, so this is also a challenge for the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e548	Nordic cooperation has entered a new phase in recent years with a more focused focus on ambitions and results. Changes in the world and the economic crisis in recent years in Europe have also affected the Nordic region – directly or indirectly. The Nordic region needs to adapt to the new reality, and it requires the Nordic Council to make joint recommendations, follow-up to decisions and speed up their implementation. Cooperation with Nordic colleagues is important, and despite the different colors of governments in the different countries, we have common challenges and much to learn from each other. Many political dilemmas are addressed both in formal meetings and more informally across party boundaries. Nordic cooperation is less about party politics, but to a large extent about finding common denominators and strengthening the Nordic region. There is still a high potential for improvement in many areas. The Committees call for the follow-up and visible results of the work being done, and so do our citizens. It is possible to ask questions to the different governments, but I have learned that the response deadline is not met. I think that is serious, and there is a lack of respect for the members of the Nordic Council. The citizens have also been given the right to meet in the committees, but unfortunately the system is unknown to most people, and it is by chance that some people know about the scheme and meet. The expectations of being heard and of their meeting with the Committee leading to something are, of course, present. I could imagine a follow-up to how that system has worked so far, and whether something can be done to make it work better. Today you will find most of the information with some simple keystrokes. It is not easy to find on the Nordic Council website. I've tried many times, and others have given up. On this page there should be much more up-to-date information readily available. This has been mentioned several times, but there are no improvements. As I see it, it is necessary to create a completely new, user-friendly website with good information about the work that is being done, about the follow-up and also about links that may be of interest to those who go into the Nordic Council. Regular enquiries by workers and working life on frontier barriers and problems encountered by workers are received here at Stortinget. In particular, it may be when they lose their job or get a permit. I think it is good that there is now a shorter waiting time for the E-301 forms. It has been delayed both here in Stortinget and has been brought up through the Nordic Council. There's been an improvement. However, there is still considerable uncertainty about the rights of workers who lose their jobs. We all want sustainable welfare schemes. In other words, Norway and the Nordic countries must have a review of the criteria used for the different schemes. Swedish and Danish migrant workers, but also lucky people from other parts of Europe, are now coming to Norway in a high number. Our welfare systems are not intended for the development we see today, with social security exports and unemployed job seekers who have social rights in the countries to which they come. It is necessary to consider whether changes need to be made in view of the current situation in Europe. Most people experience that the Nordic region has generous welfare schemes, but there is also an example of a large group being discriminated against. It was also mentioned in the Annual Report. Discrimination based on sex cannot be accepted. Swedish women who work in Norway but who live in Sweden are granted maternity leave. But the child’s father, who also works in Norway, does not get cardboard. It's not about a frontier barrier, but it's about equality. Border barriers and border problems are both important issues that need to be addressed. There are some things you should look at when it comes to legal work, and if you don't want to have common laws, it should be harmonised in such a way that people's sense of justice is followed. I want to mention one thing I got involved in, which was about animal protection. One who for life had lost the right to keep animals in a country could, in this case, move across the border to Sweden and acquire animals. Today the person has changed his name and got even more dogs, and animal friends over the whole country and in Sweden wonder what is going on in this case. What really has the Nordic Council adopted, and what happens next? I could also imagine knowing that. I have also raised the Swinesund threshold, where it is important to have a better transport capability for ships. Finally, after a long time, there has been a meeting between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities, but there are obviously many years to come. We should solve things faster. I have faith in Nordic cooperation, but we have to start working faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e567	Nordic cooperation works well, but in some areas it can become more focused. It is probably right when the first sentence of the Communication states that Nordic cooperation is stronger today than ever before. However, it must be admitted that the reasons for this lie outside the Nordic Council. All Nordic countries are now either EU members or EEA members. This situation leads to the parallel introduction of legislation and standards in most policy areas. Over time, this leads to the reduction of barriers to trade, cross-border business and the free movement of people. The Nordic Council continues to play a significant role if the Council's work is further concentrated, if the threshold for proposing to the Council of Ministers is slightly higher, in the sense that it avoids ending up as a defence of a resolution where the Council of Ministers can freely choose to ignore the recommendations. The threshold to do something about a common Nordic issue must be that there is added value for countries to cooperate, in other words, triggering a higher Nordic value added. One of the most important things to do, and it is done every day, as the representative Højbrätten was inside, is the continuous work to reduce border barriers and ensure that no new barriers are built up. We have a vision that all citizens of the Nordic region will find it natural during their lifetime to use the countries they wish – it may be for education, for work, for leisure, or for retirement. In order to facilitate this, it would have been desirable to develop a common public in the Nordic region gradually, facilitating access to each other's media, in particular television programmes being central. We see a few approaches to this through some common conversation programs, which are popular, but there's a lot that can still be done here. Similarly, there is also evidence of progress in schools’ training in neighbouring languages, but there is still a long way to go. After calling the war with its polarization restrictions on some of the Nordic countries' freedom of action in foreign and defence policy, we can now rejoice that this is a policy area that is not covered by the taboo that it had before. But it is important that Norway, in the context of Atlantic defence cooperation through NATO,: Nordic cooperation will be primarily technical-operational and economic. The current system of NORDEFCO is in good development. It is a matter of practical pragmatic cooperation based on identified needs in the defence organisations of the countries. In addition, Nordic cooperation as a driving force for Sweden’s and Finland’s approach to NATO brings us all positive added value. While resolving the need for security against fundamental existing threats in the context of NATO, there will also be benefits from regional cooperation with the Nordic region. A major conflict in the Nordic region will necessarily affect all Nordic countries, and a joint coordinated effort will be a strength. This should not be confused with an alternative security guarantee – the Nordic countries have no independent capacity to guarantee their own security. In everyday life, however, local cooperation with neighbouring countries will be possible. The same applies to some patrol and surveillance tasks. Cooperation will also be particularly relevant in the areas of strength production functions such as education, material maintenance, material investment and practice. In order to maintain an almost balanced defence structure at all within realistic and economic frameworks, small countries such as the Nordics have a great need to find partners. Geographical proximity, cultural and traditional similarities and similarities in size and arrangement of defence organisations in the countries make the Nordic region a natural cooperation region. Such cooperation must be based on identified operational needs and a practical and pragmatic approach. Nordic cooperation can also be deepened in the justice sector, and fortunately it is already taking place. The law on the seizure and handover of criminal offences entered into force on 16 October now in the autumn. The Heads of State or Government submitted proposals to the Nordic Minister of Justice meeting in June 2012 which, when put into practice, will contribute to strengthening efforts against organised, cross-border crime in the Nordic region. This is also, in my view, essential for the Nordic countries to further harmonise their efforts in the framework of Schengen cooperation to combat smuggling, illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and other forms of tourism crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e601	Report. St. 7 for 2011-2012 states that the northern regions remain the main strategic focus of the government. We also heard the Council of State, Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide, earlier here today underlined it. The Storting Communication also addresses a different point, which states that there is a need to strengthen the dialogue on North-Area issues at a parliamentary level. That need is urgent; there are major changes in the Arctic area, not least on the climate side, which open opportunities but also contain some threats to the population in the Arctic regions. We must have a political relationship with that. It is, as I was told, a great deal of international attention about it, among other things. the Arctic Parliamentary Conference on the Arctic Cooperation of the Future – Arctic Governance. Next week there is a major international conference in Tromsø, Arctic Frontiers, which brings together many international politicians, who have become an important meeting place and arena for those who are concerned with Arctic issues. It has «Geopolitics & Marine Production in a Changing Artic» as its main theme. The background to the establishment of a separate Arctic delegation in 2009 is linked to the changes that are actually taking place, and to the changes that now appear to be occurring faster than were known at the time. We also see that they might go faster in the future than we thought was possible. In the setting for creating an arctic delegation, indent. 26 S from 2009–2010, it appears that the background to the establishment was the increased activity in the Arctic and the increased political importance of the area nationally and internationally. One of the objectives identified was that a permanent delegation would create greater continuity in work and increase the possibility of putting greater Norwegian influence on the agenda to influence the development of Arctic cooperation. Before its establishment in 2009, the Stortinget was represented by a representative and an alternate to the Arctic Parliamentary Conferences and sporadic meetings with external environment and government representatives. We have arrived at a time – this is the first period we have had an Arctic delegation – where the members of the delegation have seemed natural to raise questions and discuss: have we achieved the objectives we have set ourselves, have we helped to strengthen the attention of the Storting, and have the parliamentarians helped to influence development and strengthen Norwegian interests? It is our opinion that the establishment of the delegation has undoubtedly strengthened Storting's participation in international parliamentary cooperation and led to greater continuity in Arctic cooperation – not least that the head of the delegation, Mr Höglund, is also the head of the International Committee of Arctic Parliamentarians, which has made an important contribution to our being able to make the preparations – set the agenda – for what should be on the agenda. Continuity provides a greater basis for influence, but it is a challenge for the delegation to be relatively small and not a mature delegation in terms of how it works and for the whole organisation to be discussed internationally. We know that Arctic advice is about to establish a permanent secretariat in Tromsø, which must be said to be very important to Norway. We see that there are more and more, as has been said earlier in the debate, who are concerned about Arctic issues and who want to participate in that discussion. The delegation has to come back in the spring with some suggestions to the Stortinget on how to develop the delegation further. I think there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that the Storting must follow up on what has been the government's strategic focus, and we must follow the developments that are. In conclusion, I would like to point out to the representative Ivar Kristiansen in his statement that we are facing many challenges in the Arctic and in the North areas related to the opportunities that open up because of environmental changes, and because technology goes on. Then the parliamentarians play a role, and I believe that the final declaration of the 10th Parliamentary Conference in Akureyri on Iceland last September just shows the ambitions that parliamentarians can have on behalf of the citizens of the country related to many of the issues that are there, whether they are transport, the environment or the human aspect that is important in the Arctic – because people live there, unlike in Antarctica.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e620	There has been a positive and important debate so far – important from how to emphasise the Nordic importance of Norway in a wider perspective. For some, of course, the Nordics will be very important. For others, it might be less important, depending on who compares to. If you compare the Nordic countries with the EU alone, you might say that the Nordic countries are less important. If you compare the Nordic countries with the United States, there will be other types of cooperation, other types of importance. But it is not surprising that the neighbouring countries around us are important to the nation of Norway. Then, with all due respect, it is tempting to say, as my colleague Ivar Kristiansen said in a side comment, that this is a debate that sometimes overflows with self-satisfaction. The reason is that I have experienced this debate as being a little bit critical of the challenges we face. Because there is no doubt that we have challenges in terms of the cooperation we have. It's probably based on a lot of what the Foreign Minister said to me in the change of lines: what is the starting point, what is the position of the different nations and what are national priorities? And I have great respect for that. Clearly, both Sweden and Finland, as EU countries, sometimes have a different approach than what we have. We could have it as NATO country. Although both Sweden and Finland are close partners with NATO, there may be shades in it. But I think that's how it should be -- that's how it has to be. At the same time, the foreign minister also replied in the reply with the undersigned that there are things that are very good, and there are things that are challenging. Then I'm a little surprised that we don't dare focus more on the things that are difficult. Because I've learned, and I realize, that the Nordic countries are the closest we have. I have also learned that good neighbors and friends are the ones you are most honest with. And then I think, why don't we dare point out what's difficult? Why aren't we raisins and bravers on that side too? Or is it that it becomes too difficult politically? It is possible that there are things I don't understand in this context, and I have great respect for that, but at the same time I think that being a politician also requires that you sometimes be honest even when it's uncomfortable, and dry to point things out. I am not saying that there has not been any indication of critical conditions for Nordic cooperation here, but I believe that the debate as such will be served with fewer images of shine and more reality. So I think, as the representative Sivertsen was in the process, that it's a challenge for people to find solutions, business is looking for solutions, but politics sometimes has a problem hanging out and being ahead of the development that comes. It may be difficult to say yes to a bastant, but the prerequisite and objective must be that politicians provide good solutions for individuals, for business cooperation, for security cooperation, and that it is not stopped because politicians are unable, or unwilling or unwilling, to find optimal solutions. If that happens, it does not serve what is the general, what is the issue today: Nordic cooperation – at good times, but sometimes on the challenges that lie in it. I believe, as I said, that the debate as such will serve to dry up even more clearly. It's been about cooperation in the Arctic. When the government and the Storing are coordinated, or have a common front given that much of the future is there, we have to be prepared for what's coming. If there's a fact, which is probably, that there's going to be an increased focus on cruise activity up there, it's like some of the nations that feel a responsibility have to take care of e.g. to have a form of rescue service present. We need to find good and smarter cooperation solutions with the Russian authorities as well. We've got it, but they can definitely get better, too. When Russia wants to increase its focus on oil and gas extraction, I think Norway can help to find good technological solutions, because there are not so many who beat us, if there are some who do, on what happens subsea. But we're also good at search and rescue. I think what we can do is dry to point to where we might be better than others. Maybe we have to be even more concerned that we are sabla good at some things, and that we should be challenged on other things. But what we should do, at least at my discretion, is be open to contribute where that makes sense. Then we should dare to point out where there are potentials for improvement. Honesty is the longest – also in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e635	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e638	The Storting report on Nordic cooperation and the annual report to Stortinget show that much good and important work is being done in many areas of Nordic cooperation. I myself am in the Nutrition Committee, where, among other things, energy, research, innovation, frontier barriers and transport are on the agenda. As is known, there is no trade in the formalized Nordic government cooperation. I think it should have been, but in any case – transport and infrastructure are important in cooperation, as the Helsinki Agreement also describes. International trade and commuting across national borders are growing, and the need for international transport projects is growing as this happens. We need more and more efficient transport connections for passenger traffic in the most populous parts of the Nordic region. There are infrastructure challenges to exploiting natural resources in the north. We need to find solutions to traffic growth in our largest cities, also called need problems, and we need more transport-related research on climate-friendly solutions and new energy technologies aimed specifically at Nordic conditions. In other words, transport is of fundamental importance for long-term and sustainable economic growth, competitiveness and employment in the Nordic region. However, the transport policy mechanism has implications for regional development, the environment and greenhouse gas emissions. This has been discussed on several occasions by the Nordic Council, and important decisions were taken during the November session in which the Nordic governments were invited to develop a common Nordic strategy for the development and investment of maritime and land transport infrastructure. Furthermore, a common plan for improving the links between the most populous parts of the Nordic region was requested: Oslo–Gouteborg, Malmø–København, Helsingborg–Helsingør and Oslo–Stockholm. The northernmost parts of Scandinavia have a large potential as a raw material supplier for the European market, and Ofotbanen is important in this way. The representative, Tjäldal, told us earlier today that this track has been scrapped in the work on a new national transport plan. As far as I know, we are now in the process of working on a new national transport plan, so it would be a good idea to wait with our claims for a new NTP on the table. But the Ofot Railway goes from Narvik to Kiruna and northwards towards and inwards into Finland. It is also important in view of the North-East Passage, and thus also relevant to Icelandic and Greenlandic interests. That is why – and I stress this – it was decided that a common plan for the development and operation of this route should be drawn up, which I would have thought the representative of Tåldal was also familiar with, as it was taken at the Nordic Council in November 2012. In the context of the climate challenges, the Council of Ministers was asked to entrust relevant institutions such as NordForsk and Nordic energy research with the task of developing a long-term joint commitment to research and innovation in the field of transport. These are decisions that are entirely in line with the intention of the Helsinki Agreement, and I look forward to the further work on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e655	Many have pointed out that there is a new drive in Nordic cooperation. That's great, and it's necessary. In an international context, or in a globalised world, our region is going to experience much stronger competition in almost all areas of society, culturally and economically. Flexibility in the Nordic labour market may be among the most important assets we have in meeting international competition. It is necessary — and it is necessary to do so quickly — to find solutions to optimise the dynamics of the labour market. We see that there are many areas in which the private sector is at the forefront. Several industries are constantly organizing themselves in larger units, not least in a Nordic context. Bank and insurance were early out. We also see that in enterprise, forest industry and a number of other areas, ownership is organised in larger units where not only is one acting financially as a common owner of two companies on each side of the border, but where the synergies of course lie in developing competent environments, business clusters, working with research and otherwise using the resources we have within a company, within a business cluster, optimally. We often talk about the hundreds of thousands of Swedish youths who are in our country. We're not going far back until we know that Norwegian health professionals were very welcome in Sweden, and we know from the fishing industry that Finnish workers have often been very necessary and dear to the north. The new thing in the situation may be that we are now talking in a completely different way about competent labour and skills jobs, which are to work in several countries at the same time. This makes it necessary to find practical solutions, and I think that the representative Højbräten has had a good input into this debate by pointing that out. The world is often created by those who have the screwdriver in their rear pocket, and there is a lot of this about. It is necessary to address the practical projects, such as the Nordic Jobbresan Association, but it may also be necessary to work more bilaterally and use it in the new entrance we have to Nordic cooperation – or the opening of it – to find practical, good solutions. Then I think it has been reassuring to listen to both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Cooperation from the Labour Party in this context. The signals from their government collaborators – the last few days’ recordings from Karin Andersen or today’s recordings from Per Olaf Lundtägen – have not been quite as promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e672	I'm going to deal with a topic that it's been a little bit focused on so far in the debate, and it's research. I participate in a research and innovation working group, which is a sub-selection of representatives from both the business selection and the knowledge and culture selection. There we have some exciting projects going on that I think it's natural to get involved in this debate. The only area with which we have worked a lot is infrastructure and cooperation networks for research in the north. There is a lot going on here – we have BarentsWatch and more things going on – but this is clearly a potential for an even stronger commitment to research cooperation and not least cooperation linked to infrastructure, which is quite costly in the north. The North is perhaps one of the most exciting and most important areas of research that we can see in the future. It is a central area for climate research, and it is a conflict area for environmental protection, with strong pressure from the oil industry. Then research skills will be very decisive to take the right decisions in terms of where to drill for oil, where to drill for oil, and what security requirements we have to impose on both shipping and the oil industry in order to defend it, and so that we do not encounter unfortunate situations. The research and innovation working group has probably said that there is a need to put even more pressure on governments to focus on this part of the Nordic Council's cooperation. Then there's another area we've been working a lot on, and it's the Top Research Initiative, which was a powerful common research lever for climate and renewable energy. This is a programme started in 2009 and will last for five years. This means that it is getting closer to the end, and the research and innovation working group is very busy that we must now start working actively against the Nordic Council and governments in order to ensure a proper continuation of the research gap on which the Top Research Initiative has been an example. It is well in the scientific community that the Top Research Initiative has been a successful research effort, so we feel a very responsibility that we are able to raise the commitment around getting a continuation of the research effort in the Nordic Council at least the same level over the next five years. We also have a statement on the research page. It has been a statement from the so-called High Level Group, which has produced a report, Will for Research. There are several proposals on how to strengthen research and innovation, so we are also working on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e685	In 2013, the Barents cooperation between Norway, Russia, Sweden and Finland was formalised 20 years ago. Much has happened in those 20 years. For us who are Barents, there are some important milestones: The cold war is over. The boundaries between Norway and Russia were gradually opened so that ordinary citizens could cross borders and visit each other. A historical agreement was reached on the Barents Sea divider line after over 40 years of disagreement between our two countries. The Barents Secretariat was established in Kirkenes, and for the first time a regional level had a certain foreign policy role. Recently, border residence certificates have been established, which facilitate border crossings for those living near the border on the Russian and Norwegian sides. Multi visas are issued for two years on the Norwegian side and for three years on the Russian side. We have a functioning Norwegian Consulate General in Murmansk with a sub-office in Arkhangelsk. The infrastructure is upgraded on both sides of the Norwegian-Russian border, with the extension of the road network and the allocation to a new border station. Over the course of these 20 years, there has been economic development between our two neighbouring countries — albeit very cautious at the beginning, but now it is about. 20 Norwegian companies established in Murman County, and Russian companies are now beginning to establish themselves in Norway. Above all, there are two premises: a fantastically targeted Norwegian effort by the Norwegian authorities, concreted through the strategy of the red-green government, where the northern regions are identified as Norway's main strategic area, and also a unique people-to-people cooperation for many years, long before the opening of the borders between Finnmark County and the Soviet Union, and later Russia. People-to-people cooperation was the beginning of the positive development we now have. Breaking and balalaika can move boundaries, we've seen that. This is evidence of Norwegian-Russian cooperation. Barn cooperation also has a different and important dimension. In these areas, there are many indigenous peoples, and this cooperation has focused on their situation. I am convinced that it has been beneficial for the various indigenous peoples to gain understanding of their own authorities, and in terms of increasing awareness relating to respect and care in different languages and cultures. Much has happened in 20 years, and more is going to happen. Cross-border contacts in the Barents area will contribute to further positive developments for countries, and not least for the people who live in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e728	I am border dwellers myself, and there are long traditions for the exchange of both people and goods across a long and open border – I think we should be very satisfied with that. I very much agree with the representative Sønsterud that transport and infrastructure should be a very central part of Nordic cooperation. We can also recognise – which has probably been the review tone of the debate – that the Nordic region is an open, free and calm spot on this earth. I think we should be very satisfied with that too – I think the Foreign Minister may have quite different thoughts in his mind right now, during the debate – but that does not prevent there from being some challenges beyond the border. It goes a little further than just on the plunder and staple, on which the representative Højbrätten was in. We in the Financial Committee receive regular e-mails from some Nordics who have moved to Sweden. This is a problem that has been raised several times with the Minister of Finance, and it is in Sweden, so we are not the one to blame, but we receive regular e-mails about some pensioners who have moved to Sweden and feel tricked by the Swedish Tax Agency in terms of how the tax is calculated. It's a pretty serious problem for the individual, because they're in a trap and don't get out of Sweden again. It's, as I said, not something that's going on in Norway, so it's hard to ask anyone here to do something about it, but I think it's okay to say from the foreign minister, so he's also a little bit on the finance minister to try to get into a system that can help these people. The second thing I want to address is that the right has proposed several times to start a test scheme with a mobile tax office in response to the challenges posed by the new ID control system, because we know that work exchange is extremely important across borders. In Oslo, you almost don't get food without a little Swedish. It is also important for tourist farms and many small fish processing establishments around the country. When it comes to having to travel far to get an ID number: good control of the ID number is important, but it is also important that the public is service oriented to something that is actually the very foundation for keeping a lot of activity going. Once again, it is worth looking at a pilot scheme with a mobile tax office, just to approach the companies that are far away and that have this issue closely within their grasp.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e739	Neither the President nor I have any problems getting food supplies if we're not very good in Swedish. Everyone says Nordic cooperation is important, but few ask the question as to why it is important. I think we should do it more often. I believe it is a perspective that is often lacking when we talk about Nordic cooperation, and it is the Nordic region as a strategic region. In the last few years, we've spent a lot of time on frontier barriers, and don't get me wrong, I'm very much in order for us to solve it. But Nordic cooperation needs to be something more than a bottle tap, truck lengths and social security rules. As I said, it is important to clean this up, but we also need to discuss the Nordic region as a strategic region. That's where I think the Nordics have a role to play. East of us we have a big neighbor, Russia. We are located north of Europe, i.e. that most people in Europe live south of us – call the continent located south of us. In such thinking, the Nordic region becomes important as a region, and especially for those countries on the continent that take an interest in Norway and the Nordic countries. In particular, I would like to mention Germany in this way – and we would like to add the Baltic Sea region, the Nordic region, Russia. In this way, the Nordic perspective becomes important. When I'm in Germany, several people mentioned the work of getting – not common embassies, we don't have – embassies located in the same place. Then it is a bit staggered to drive a bus in Berlin and you hear from the speaker that the next venue is the Nordic Embassy. The common embassy complex in Berlin is a very good example of something that we should get to several places. I understood from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there have been several places, and that there is a common thought about it between the foreign services in the Nordic countries. The Nordics have a common identity. Then it is important that we strengthen and build under common identity, common language, common culture and common literature. I would like to commend all those who work with it through the Nordic Council, the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Nordic Association and everyone else who works in that field. It has occurred to me over the last few years that when I come to Copenhagen, the taxi driver or waiter very often speaks English to me, instead of we can speak Danish-Norwegian. It is important that we build up under common identity, history, language, culture and literature, and I want to add that TV channels are important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e754	I actually think the representative Myrli had a pretty good point, that we have to look at the North as a strategic region. Then I'm going to go into what I want to talk about -- that I've been talking about earlier today -- that maybe goes on the most important issue in the Nordic region today, and that I've met a huge commitment around. I have been contacted by Finnish and Swedish parliamentarians, who have asked that Norway, on its side, now be able to do something about the double track that goes through Sweden. It actually has greater consequences on the Swedish and Finnish sides of the border than it has on the Norwegian side. We are talking about 4,500 jobs in northern Sweden, where, for the first time in Swedish history, there has been a growth in Lapland, and there is a need to set up racks as housing for people. In Finland — in Lapland — it is obvious that there are 5,500 inhabitants, who are of great importance to them. This is a strategic thinking that we in the Nordic countries must look at in layers. In Norway, this will represent 300–400 jobs. Overall, we're talking a lot – and here we're just talking about the transport of iron ores. Then China's second largest freight company, Sintrans, has also been in contact and wants to use the track and get a capacity on the track that allows you to carry goods that way. The opening of the north areas with the east-west link is now 30-40 pst. savings in time. Now the supplier also says 30-35 pst. of the ores in the first years will pass the new passage. Here it's important to make things work and make it go up. Schenker and CargoNet have today begun moving from train to road, just what a unanimous Storting wants to move away from – the road. They now have to move the opposite and take the trails because the path is full. I believe that with all due respect, we agree that there is no good solution in cross-political terms – especially with a road network that is currently almost incapable of coping with the pressure. Here it is important to do the priority to be done, and I trust the representative Sønsterud of the Workers' Party to state that we should not believe what is in the paper. I'm going to agree with her on that and I'm going to insist that what's in the paper is wrong, and that this will come into the national transport plan. I believe it is so important that we may have to have it as our own message. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that he will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e763	On behalf of the government representatives, I would like to thank you for a good debate on important issues. I would like to answer some of the questions that have come up here, but perhaps first respond to what someone has asked: what is not working well? They have been asked if there are no such issues, and I would like to help the representatives with some of them. I have a long list. I believe that, in the Nordic context, we are not able to be current enough. That's why it's important that we now change the way we budget, so that we can spend some more money prioritizing what's current. I think we are too concerned that there must be consensus on everything between five countries. We should be able to implement a few more projects with fewer countries as participants. I don't think we're good enough to prepare when we meet in Nordic context. I would like to remind you that when we went to Iceland last year, I received the case papers on the day I left. At least I like to be something better prepared. I think there are too many projects in general, and there are too many projects that have their own lawyers. I think we also need to be able to see that some frontier barriers are lost – it's about politics – and we don't have the ability to solve them. I think we also have to be able to say that something we have to define as not frontier barriers, but as politically wild. The representative, Mr. Träldal, asked me in the exchange of lines if I could arrange for a meeting with the Minister for Transport. I have checked now, and there are no enquiries there. We're going to have to figure it out again, and we're going to have to set up a meeting like that. The representative Foss was in there with the investigation manual. I agree that we should look at the investigation manual, and we have started work on what we are assessing whether the investigation manual works well enough in many areas, including the Nordic one. The work on a border guard is in progress, and there are some legal issues. We need to look at the whole organisation of our border-blocking work in this regard. We're working on that. So to the question of people who have been deprived of the right to keep animals: there was a conference about it very recently, where the animal protection authorities of the Nordic countries started to work. The supervisory authorities were also gathered to discuss how to achieve more cooperation on taking away from people the right to animal husbandry. Language cooperation is important, where we also take action. As far as vocational training is concerned, we have put in place a lot of work on monitoring the requirements for the recognition of several cross-disciplinary vocational training courses. In the case of neighbouring country television, we also look at digital solutions, and in particular on film channels. The study aid was the representative within. – If I could get another post, I would like to answer the last two questions related to ID control and the one with tax, as the representative Gundersen asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e792	Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e795	Thank you. There is something with ID control that many have been busy for a long time, and we have started a work now to get more mobile solutions, which the representative Gundersen was busy with. I think that's important, and it's starting to work better, getting out in a single context, in a single day, to meet groups of foreign workers applying for a tax card. But the identity check for tax cards is one of the most important things we have to prevent false identity in Norway, and therefore it is important that we have good practices for that very thing. So finally, it's about the relationship with Norwegian pensioners in Sweden, who have had some challenges. By 17 December, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg replied to this. The answer you sent to the Nordic Council, the Citizens' and Consumers' Committee. He says, among other things: in its reply: «The problems therefore do not appear to be as wide as the committee has understood. Against this background, I have not found any reason to instruct the Swedish Tax Agency to review the issue." I would recommend the representative, Gundersen, perhaps to deal with the matter with his party trap. It might be easier to get through then.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e807	As state councils have the privilege of getting as many three-minute posts as they want, the president let it go for this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e810	I thought I would sign up to the council that I thought the last two posts she had now were very good. It'll be taken with the council. The list of things that do not work in the Nordic Council, which she answered to the representatives who asked, is very interesting political questions to discuss for the assembly that is now gathered here, and also whether there are issues that Norway can bring to debate in the Nordic Council. That is why I – a long list here now, and it is probably much longer – would recommend to the Council of State to bring it to Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can debate those questions, possibly putting it on the agenda of her colleagues in the Nordic Council of Ministers. However, these are clearly issues that can be discussed in the 2013 Communication on Nordic cooperation. So there's one thing we've discussed before, and that's the fact that the Council of State says there are some border barriers that have to exist. Yes, it may be, but I think it is the Storting that has to decide whether there are border barriers we have to break out, and say that here's the difference between land, and that's how it should be. I have repeatedly called for a debate on this, so that the Storting can decide on it, and whether there are border barriers that we should ignore.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e819	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e835	The Arctic has rapidly become a region that has gained considerable political and economic attention. All Arctic nations are embarking on their national strategies for the area. The EU does the same, and several non-Arctic nations follow up. Literally, the Arctic is changing. The Arctic is retreating. Both the north-east and north-west passages between the Atlantic and the Pacific are now open. The Norwegian Government is, of course, responsible for taking care of Norwegian political interests in the increasing attention and competition that is now taking place in Arctic regions. Norwegian interests, rights and sovereignty may be put under pressure, with particular reference to the natural resources now available for exploitation and exploitation. The background is, of course, the international, increased demand for the rich resources in the Arctic. An extremely vulnerable region from an environmental point of view will require international traffic rules for almost any activity – a regulatory framework that needs to be observed and clarified in cooperation with the indigenous population. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will comment on the future role of the Arctic Council as the political arena for the strategies that the government also aims to achieve. The news magazine TIME had a headline on 1 October 2007 entitled ‘Who Owns the Arctic?’ Some might be tempted to believe that they are thinking of a completely unregulated area. We and others may well be more provoking such a title and pointing out that the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea states that the coastal states of the region have all the rights above and below water, whether we are talking about 12 miles of territorial waters, 24 miles of continental shelf or 200 miles of economic zone. When we talk about the Arctic, it's anyway a huge geographical area, thinly populated, where most of it consists of water. It's extremely resource-rich, with increased international focus. Experts believe that the vast majority of these areas and resources in the Arctic are within defined limits. Since the entry into force of the part-line agreement between Norway and Russia one year ago, Denmark-Greenland and Canada have also agreed, after many years of conflict, on a border agreement on the rights of a deserted island between the two countries. This agreement has now been put in place, and thus one might think that future developments will be marked by harmony in the area. However, we have no guarantee of that. It is therefore in Norway’s interest that the rules on behaviour, policies and resource use in this vulnerable region be as firmly anchored as possible. We must not take for granted that all countries, the coastal states concerned, like others, have only common interests in and for the Arctic. The world's population is increasing rapidly. In particular, the need for food, minerals and energy will arouse interest in the Arctic areas — not necessarily in the form of a race, but we see today clear signs of positioning for the launch of future activity, the negative impacts of climate change and, indirectly, paradoxically enough of increased activity primarily in the form of changed sailing patterns. The controversial issues will, of course, be many both nationally and internationally, particularly in relation to petroleum, mineral activity in the Arctic and in the North of the Barents Sea, perhaps equally in view of new major importance and positioning for the region. First of all, it's China I'm thinking about here. Few countries have such experience and knowledge of the Arctic as Norway. Among other things, we have 30 years of experience in exploration and extraction of oil and gas in arctic strips. However, there is now a serious interest in reporting. For example, Statoil is now starting activity further north than ever before, in a particularly harsh and climatically challenging environment. I mention this as an illustration that policy-making must keep pace with the industrial development interest in the area. The Arctic Committee was recently briefed on the many challenges facing shipping, navigation, communication, oil protection, seismics, the lack of navigational charts, the need to strengthen maritime education and not least the Arctic search and rescue capacity. These are key and crucial questions that simply tell what tasks Norway needs to put at the top of the agenda in our Arctic policy and in the Arctic Council. Norway needs to think strategically. Norway must clearly define its own strategic interest and ambition and policy because the likelihood is great that in these issues as a nation we will have significant self-interest in being able to be in a leading commodity position, also a leading commodity position in caring for the interests of indigenous peoples, and because in our Arctic policy we can actually play a role and make a difference. It is therefore in Norway’s interest to contribute to an increase in the international interest in the Arctic as far as possible, and in the direction of Norway’s being a primary supplier of development. Do we only have friends in connection with our Arctic approach? And are all the limits and rights in the process of being clarified? What do other countries do? What we know is that several significant nations have great arctic ambitions. Some also have significant military ambitions in addition to extensive oil and gas interests near the Norwegian border. The Arctic Council has already adopted an important document on search and rescue. Our interest is among others: to strengthen cooperation with Russia and others, so that areas such as search and rescue are given a rapid and robust follow-up to ensure that capacity is in place when developments are serious. China today is probably one fifth of the world's population. Perhaps China passes in the year the United States as the world's largest economic power. Perhaps China will also become an Arctic power. The interest from the Chinese side is enormous. China is now building a giant embassy in Reykjavik to have a strategic headquarters in the north. Last summer, President Hu Jintao visited Denmark, as the first Chinese head of state of the day. He met there, among others. The highest political leader in Greenland. China will invest heavily on the island, including: in new iron ore mine, aluminium factory and several power plants. China is in place at Svalbard and has ownership in mainland Norway. The Chinese economic locomotive is moving rapidly northwards. China, with its interests, has set a standard for what we can expect from development. And although China's Heads of State did not visit Norway, perhaps South Korea's president was visiting Norway on a similar occasion. Activities in the Arctic are increasing, and there is a growing need for, inter alia: broadband coverage. Large areas of the north are currently not covered by satellites that can meet the emerging need for data communication. We need to restate our own commitment, our involvement and knowledge of the Arctic, including parliamentary involvement, which we have talked about earlier today. We have also seen that someone looks at South Varanger as a natural place for, among other things. China to invest money in the coming years. Norway as a nation cannot simply leave to East Asian investors to take the lead in further developing the Barents region. In these days it is 20 years since the Kirkenes Declaration was signed. It was the start of intergovernmental and regional barn cooperation. The establishment of this cooperation was important in order to gradually normalise and destabilise the relationship between the newly established state of Russia and neighbouring countries, regions and communities in the north. This cooperation must be developed, which is also a Norwegian responsibility, without the Chinese economic vehicle combination coming to full barn cooperation and developments in the Arctic pre-purchase cooperation. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be whether he is willing to give Arctic Council and Norwegian Arctic policy high foreign policy priority, so that the Arctic gets a priority and a platform that can make policy known and that actually reflects the importance of the region? If it's not exactly today a race against the Arctic from nations, I think we'll see this from international companies. There are powerful interests that now go into the Arctic in full width. Oil and gas, new sailing routes, fish, minerals and the impacts of climate change described, with warmer oceans and melting police, are such examples. Former editor of Nordlys called this the new wavepiece. We have to make sure that this does not become the wavepiece of the times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e878	The representative of Kristiansen raises a number of important questions. They are largely related to the new opportunities and challenges posed by climate change in previously ice-covered areas in the north. The representative Kristiansen encourages me and the government to think strategically. It is very important to think strategically about these issues. This is precisely why the original Soria Moria Declaration of 17 October 2005 states that the northern regions are the main strategic focus of the government in the coming years. This was also repeated on the next government platform, i.e. the one that came in 2009. Since this has been the most important issue on our agenda, precisely for the very same reasons that Kristiansen is now drawing up, that this is an area of great and important and dynamic development, with significant opportunities both for Norway and for the other countries, and also significant challenges if the situation is not properly addressed. The Government has therefore consistently worked to promote peace, stability and development on the basis of the law of the sea. It provides a UN-based, comprehensive and predictable international framework for maritime areas. In the north, we have effective and committed international cooperation that promotes responsible resource management. New regulations are also being developed in line with growing needs and within the framework of international law. In a global perspective, there is reason to emphasise this degree of consensus in the north. It concerns the principal frameworks, but also the depth of intergovernmental cooperation. We see it not least between the coastal states concerned. The cooperation shall be reflected, inter alia, in: in the 2008 Ilulissat Declaration. Here the five Polish states confirmed that it is the United Nations Commission on the Law of the Sea that sets out the binding framework for activity in the Arctic Ocean. Let me point out here to the representative of Kristiansen that countries do not always have similar interests, that that is very correct. That's one of the reasons why we're pursuing foreign policy. But I want to distinguish between different interests on two levels. Because it's definitely been like this and it's going to be like this, for example. may have overlapping requirements for the same area. And by definition, you have different interests, because you're interested in the same area, and it won't go up. At the same time, one may have a common interest in predictability of driving rules on how to solve this issue. What we've seen over the last few years is that there are fewer and fewer issues that remain unsolved, because through the institutions and the rules that come out of the United Nations Commission on the Law of the Sea, we've been able to solve them. The part-line agreement between Norway and Russia is an important example of this, but also the recent breakthrough in clearing between Denmark and Canada on the part-line in the Lincoln Sea. Norway is the first Arctic State to have its continental shelf’s outer border cleared following the approval of the Continental Soccer Commission in 2009. Canada is due for 2013, Denmark for 2014. Russia will provide additional information to its original proposal during 2013. The United States, for its part, is not a party to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The country is not bound by the time limits, but nevertheless considers that the Convention’s rules are essentially the expression of binding customary law. The United States is therefore cooperating on maritime law issues on the basis of the law of the sea. There is therefore reason to expect an orderly clarification of all the remaining continental shelf issues in the Arctic Ocean. The 2010 part-line agreement between Norway and Russia is not only a milestone in bilateral relations but also a more general expression of practical cooperation on fisheries and energy issues based on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. In accordance with the Ilulissat Declaration, other coastal states in the Arctic Ocean also have the priority of clarifying their maritime borders. Although different actors may have different legitimate interests in the north, there is no race for the Arctic or for the resources of the region. The main challenges in the Arctic are related to other conditions, such as climate and environment, increased use of new routes, increased tourism and increased oil and gas activities. This increased activity, as I mentioned in the introduction, is precisely a result of the area becoming more accessible when the sea ice melts. This requires appropriate national legislation, but also cooperation in the relevant international forums to address the challenges. Arctic Council is the main venue for discussing the common challenges. It is the only political Circumpolar Cooperation Forum at government level. Arctic Council is also the only body that brings together all the Arctic states and representatives of indigenous peoples. Cooperation within the Council has changed in line with the changes in the Arctic. From being an environmental protection programme in 1996, it has evolved into the leading Arctic Cooperation Forum. It is sometimes also useful to remember what the Arctic Council is not: it is not a governing body, but just a council in the literal meaning of the word. Arctic Councils make recommendations on Arctic issues of common interest to members and of relevance to international organisations concerned. An example of this is the cooperation with the International Maritime Organisation, IMO, on the regulatory needs of shipping. Research and knowledge acquisition under the auspices of the Arctic Council has been central to leading the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. It is important that Arctic Councils continue to take the lead in pooling and disseminating knowledge on climate change in the Arctic. However, we see other developments in the Council that are important and correct. This is a development that Norway has been driving. Firstly, we in the Arctic Council have shown that we are able to meet new challenges with more committed cooperation. This can be seen, among other things. through the negotiation of legally binding agreements. At the initiative of the Council, the Arctic States have negotiated an agreement on search and rescue in the Arctic. It was signed in Nuuk in May 2011 and will enter into force in two days, on 19 January 2013. Furthermore, through a separate working group, the Council negotiated an agreement on oil protection for the management of oil pollution in Arctic waters. The aim is to sign this at the Foreign Minister's meeting in Kiruna in May this year. Secondly, the increased interest in the Arctic leads several countries and organisations to seek observer status in Arctic Councils. This applies, inter alia, to: EU, India, Italy, Japan, China, Singapore and South Korea. Norway supports the admission of new observer states as long as they meet the Arctic Council’s own criteria. These criteria include, inter alia: the recognition of the sovereign rights of Arctic States and the recognition that the law of the sea forms the legal basis for the Arctic. Recording of new permanent observers will hopefully be decided at the ministerial meeting in Kiruna to spring. Thirdly, the establishment of the Permanent Secretariat of the Arctic Council is important in order to further strengthen the Council's work. The establishment in Tromsø is also a clear confirmation of Norway’s role in the Arctic. The location in the Arctic capital will help to strengthen Tromsø as one of the leading knowledge centres on Arctic issues. The permanent secretariat will be ready for operation in May this year when Canada takes over the presidency of the Arctic Council. In a few days, on 21 January, I will sign the host country agreement for the Secretariat at the Presidium in Tromsø. We and other Arctic Council countries will ensure that the Secretariat has the necessary capacity to perform its functions towards the Presidency and the Member States. Norway has been an active driver to strengthen the position of the Arctic Council as the main international meeting place for the discussion of challenges in the Arctic in general and along the three main lines mentioned above in particular. At the same time, it is essential that the Council continues to lead the production and pooling of knowledge related to climate change, living conditions, health, environment and safety in the north. But the government also believes that it is important that Arctic Councils support the development of nutrition as the increased human activity in the northern regions. To sum up, I would like to stress the importance of close international cooperation based on predictable legal frameworks to ensure peace and stability in a changing region. In a day-to-day environment where the Arctic is high on the agenda, and where international media often like to dramatise the development of the region, it is important that we communicate that the Arctic is a peaceful region characterised by more and more international cooperation. Cooperation is based on a common recognition of the law of the sea and this is the main legal framework from which Arctic waters are to be understood. Arctic Councils have become more politically relevant. The strengthening of the Council gives predictability. Arctic Councils are therefore an important contribution to modern security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e918	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an answer where I share most of the conclusions. But I think we're at a time point, that the real activity starts not too many years in time. That's what makes this interpellation promote. My intention is that, in cooperation with all the countries concerned who have a future interest in the area, we must ensure that we are best protected and rusted to operate in the area. The description of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the significant progress made in putting in place international agreements is quite correct, and this region is a pattern for the rest of the world on how to resolve challenging border disputes. I was at a meeting today in the Maritim Forum. One of the messages there is an estimate that within eight years north of the Barents Sea will probably have about 20 platforms in place, and an estimated 5,000 people will be in place to ensure that this activity operates in climate conditions that are more difficult than likely anywhere else in the world. This means that all the facilities that should and must be present when this activity is in place need to be put in place, and preferably in cooperation with other nations – satellite navigation, maps, sailing routes, search and rescue, and all the other factors that need to be put in place. When I interpret the foreign minister positively, it is because he confirms that the government has an ambition – even though the focus is high activity within the Arctic policy – to increase this commitment. The second thing I have a focus on is China's economic vehicle train heading northwards towards this resource bank. Now we see this as reflecting not least on the interest in Greenland, but on Svalbard, you buy companies in mainland Norway. There shall be no imagination to imagine that a gigantic operation, for example, on Greenland must have its base on Svalbard. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether this Chinese approach is unproblematic for the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e929	I want to join in the assessment that we are at a time gap. In my first speech as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the autumn of the North, I had exactly that point, that the framework is now built. We've created the international attention we wanted. We have also contributed to the focus on cooperation and not conflict. We have underlined the importance of the international principles that lie in the law of the sea, and we have built institutions. Now is the time to take advantage of the opportunities for a significant increase in the extraction of resources — exploitation of fisheries resources, oil and gas deployment and mineral resources. We are going to do this in a way that is compatible with a holistic and long-term governance, both of our areas and of neighbouring areas. To achieve this, we need to have significant activity both privately and publicly. That's exactly what was the point of the North Zone bet, that we had to go that way to get where we are now. I feel like we're just there. I agree with the representative of Kristiansen in terms of both analysis and ambition, but I'm a little surprised that this is being corrected as a question that bears the mark that we should have discovered, because that scheme has been our most central theme for well over seven years to get to this very thing. It is – to share it with the assembly – a very positive experience to visit North Norway and not least Finnmark. It is a state where – instead of having unemployment – you recognize that the principal problem is now a lack of people, and a lack of people with the right knowledge. It would have been much more valuable if you had made the right people live there or trained the people who are already there. This is an example of something that is positive, not negative, but which, of course, also requires a number of measures. The representative Kristiansen also comes from Norway’s emergency capital, which has been strongly strengthened in recent years as an emergency capital. There we have the Main Rescue Center in North Norway, the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters, and we have considerable resources – BarentsWatch – that are linked to this. There is a strong investment in large parts of Norway to meet these challenges better than before and in a more coordinated way than before. In the previous case, I remembered a Nordic Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs meeting held in Bodø. There was considerable attention from our colleagues, including: by Mr Carl Bildt, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sweden. He said that there are few countries that have the degree of integrated coordination of these functions that we have in Norway. It's just represented with what's happened in Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e942	First, thank you to the interpellant for another opportunity to discuss Arctic issues, which are important for Norway. The Nordic regions, as has been said earlier today, are our main strategic field of foreign policy. In the Jyllands-Posten yesterday we could read that Denmark's Arctic ambassador drew out the cooperation between the states of the Arctic region as exemplary. At this point, he says, there is no need to be concerned about confrontations about the Arctic. There's actually such a good cooperation between these countries that there's a basis for other countries to learn something from this cooperation. I share the Foreign Minister's views on the framework that is built, and the processes that have led to this success. But even if we have a framework, that doesn't mean we're done with the construction work. It is quite right that the interpellant points out that with the opportunities offered for new economic activity and for new value creation, which will be important for very many in the region, there will also be some challenges. There are technological challenges, and there are human challenges. This is something we need to have a relationship with, and try to be in front of. Then it's the political horror that we almost always get stuck after development. It's almost a law of nature. Then we're going to try to break that law of nature, and then this kind of debate becomes important. International parliamentary cooperation – at the conference held in the autumn – has grouped the challenges now facing the Arctic in three main areas. One challenge is related to the future Arctic cooperation, where Arctic Councils must have a core function. Arctic advice must continue on the path that has been pursued, based on consensus, broad consensus and broad involvement of stakeholders — other countries’ observers or indigenous peoples. But it is also the case that parliamentary demands are being made for Arctic Councils not to try to expand their territory, to examine new areas of legally binding agreements. Whether or not there will be a permanent international organisation, you can at least look at the possibility of an extension in this direction, based on the fact that there are eight states – with acceding participants. With regard to the economic possibilities, there are some areas that you need to be aware of. There are heavy environmental perspectives in the region. These are vulnerable areas. It is a region that quickly and vigorously notices the consequences of global climate change. It is important to note that, unlike in Antarctica, people live here, and there are also large indigenous groups in all countries involved. That has been done so far, and we must continue to do so in the future. And it is not least a unanimous demand from the parliamentary team that if economic values are to be taken out in the area, we must also ensure that they are ring-fenced, so that the peoples who live there can take part in the value creation that is taking place. Many societies, perhaps especially many of the indigenous communities, are characterised by significant social problems — significant social problems that can be historically explained back to colonization. It is interesting to note that there is considerable international attention to the concept developed by Norway in relation to overall management plans. What we have done in our marine areas is interesting and is considered relevant internationally in terms of how to build this as an international partner in an area, even if the framework is in place. Can we imagine that we are able to create international, comprehensive management plans for those areas that do not sort under the jurisdiction of just one country? And last but not least, it concerns the living conditions of the people of the Arctic. Human rights must be at the bottom, respect for the indigenous people who live there. The development we're going to have is to be knowledge-driven, based on knowledge of the people who live there. This includes an extended concept of knowledge, not only the modern research concept, but also traditional knowledge. If we can combine this, we have a basis for being forward-looking, putting into practice the possibilities that are there, but you have to do it in a way that is exemplary also to many other regions on our planet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e963	I would like to thank interpellant Ivar Kristiansen who addresses this issue in a very constructive way. It is a key strategic challenge for Norway to ensure that cooperation in the Arctic remains good, that it is based on international law and will be in the good spirit that exists today. Arctic Council cooperation started, as has been pointed out, as an environmental cooperation. It has evolved over the years. Now we're starting to see some of the results of this by starting to put in place binding agreements. We want more of that. The human dimension is mentioned as very important. Arctic Council means a lot to Norway, which is a state without a permanent seat in the Security Council. It is important that Arctic Council remains the arena for discussion of Arctic issues. We must ensure that the Council remains relevant. One way to take care of it, in our opinion – and we perceive that the government shares that view – is for observers to be admitted to Arctic Council. Keeping countries like China and organisations outside the EU is not a contribution to better cooperation in the Arctic. We really hope that the Kiruna Ministerial Meeting will find a constructive solution to this. Norway has a job to do here, and we have to spend time towards the Kiruna meeting working against those countries that may seem to be the most sceptical. We – the Arctic parliamentarians – want to turn Arctic advice into a treaty-based organisation, in line with other international organisations. We think it will give predictability and remove the ad hoc touch that Arctic Council has today. It could also give us more political pressure and dynamism in the organisation. Ministerial meetings every two years are not a way to address developments, which meet the challenges that are now there. It may have been relevant and good enough a few years ago, but with the developments described by both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the inter-pellant, political work needs to be reversed. I have a great deal of understanding that the responsible minister had to give a different priority, so I choose to come back to my further comments at another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e980	As the representative, Mr Høglund, has just referred to, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has had to leave the Chamber in order to take account of the very special and acute situation in Algeria. I guess it has the whole understanding of the Storting. We complete the two remaining posts, and the next speaker is Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e985	Let me start by commending the interpellant for not only raising this important discussion and contributing to a continuous debate on the importance of the Arctic and the Arctic to Norway, but also to a constructive debate climate – both here and in previous cases. Over hundreds of years, people have died in search of an ice-free north-west pass — a great many to contribute to national reputation or personal honor. The summer six years ago was the first time ice - free seas were measured all the way from the Pacific to the Atlantic. The ice is also melting considerably faster than it has done in the Arctic for a very long time. The countries that are now encircling the Arctic have all their different strategies for the area, and there are several developments that we must and must follow closely: In 2007, a Russian submarine planted a titanium flag on the North Pole. There has been a significant increase in Russian military activity in the northern regions in general. Russian bombers have also been seen releasing cruise missiles in arctic exercises. Canada wants to put in place an Arctic military training base and has strong political ties to the wish for a deep-water port in the Northwest Passage. In Denmark, several leading researchers have been seen going to the north, especially with a view to obtaining good maps of the seabed, which can then be used for example. the issue of ownership. In the United States, there has been a new debate in recent years on the ratification of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, and a military strategy for the Arctic – including the desire for much more icebreakers. In addition, when a report from the U.S. Geological Survey from 2000, which estimates that 25 pst. of the still undiscovered petroleum resources are found in arctic strata, it is well understood that international attention to the area — including from a resource perspective. China is also worth staying by: an increased presence in Svalbard, the construction of a large embassy in Iceland, a desire for large investments in Greenland to exploit Greenland's natural resources. But let me draw out two points that I think all the states in the Arctic must be very aware of as far as China is concerned. The first point concerns the environment: environmental damage in the Arctic has a completely different consequence from elsewhere. The destruction stays longer and gets a greater extent. Unfortunately, there is too much in today's China to testify that the Chinese are depriving the environment of other issues. Item No two concerns the rights of indigenous peoples: one sees a China that is far too disregarding the rights of indigenous peoples. It is a policy that under no circumstances must have the opportunity to be the current Chinese policy in the Arctic and on Arctic issues. The question is whether there is a perfect storm at the root of this. I don't think so. I believe that the Arctic will still be characterised by being a peaceful region – a region with cooperation and considerable resources. I hope that Norway uses its experience and knowledge to contribute precisely to it, and that the resources chosen to be extracted are removed in an environmentally friendly way and in a way that also contributes positively to the indigenous population.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e1040	Let me start by thanking you for a very constructive debate, which is characterised by a very broad consensus on these issues. There is no doubt that – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs put it – the political framework of Arctic policy is in place. I also perceived that there is a broad consensus that we are now at the time of the transition to a more operational phase, where things begin to happen physically in these rather sensitive areas, and where our ambition to further develop the framework and to ensure that the instruments that need to be in place allow – in a safe and good way – the implementation of tourism, new sailing routes, mineral development or oil and gas activity to be put in place in a proper and robust way. I have also understood that we all have an ambition to strengthen parliamentary participation in the arenas where we should and should discuss Arctic issues for the future. Some of my red thread in the interpellation has been China's economic wagon train northwards. China will in many ways necessarily be perceived as a competitor, but as the representative Gitmark was in, there are also many other aspects of the Chinese ambitions that I am quite sure we will have ample opportunity to come back to – including in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e1052	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e1058	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e1110	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-17.ana.ud2289e1218	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
