ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e26	The Oslo Police received a bombardment on the Stortinget last night. The area around Stortinget was therefore blocked and the landfill was evacuated. All the entrances to Stortinget are now open, but with enhanced access control, and Stortinget's meetings are as planned. There is a request for a permit: from the representatives of Øyvind Vaksdal and Karin S. Woldseth on leave from 13 February to 15 February – both in order to take part as observers of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at the Presidential elections in Armenia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland 13-14. February For the Province of Rogaland: Terje Halleland 13-14. February
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e60	Torkil Åmland and Terje Halleland are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e72	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide and the Councils of State Jonas Gahr Støre and Rigmor Aasrud will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e79	I have a question to the Council of State Gahr Støre. We've recently been given a number of examples that offer in psychiatry is too bad. Many individuals do not get the help they need. As a result, many young people are struggling — both with serious mental illness and, in worst cases, suicidal ideation. The Progress Party is concerned about this development, and of course it is also reinforced by the closure of the psychiatry escalation plan by the government. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that since 2005, the number of daily mental health places in the specialist healthcare service has fallen by almost 15 p.p. Of course, it has serious consequences for patients affected. It hasn't been many days since a bed post for psychiatric patients in North Norway. Professor of Psychiatry Vidje Hansen states directly that this closure can lead to more suicides among young psychiatric patients. Will the state councils reopen the treatment facilities in psychiatry that his government has systematically built up in the public, private and non-profit sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e92	I can assure you that the government has a great commitment to mental health protection. One of the big pictures we see in the health of the North is that mental health comes more into focus. There's no reason to say that we're more mentally ill than we were 10-20 years ago, but it's more obvious today. It's kind of good, but it also challenges the health care system. We are in the process of a long-term reworking of mental health protection in Norway from the heavy, large institutions to offers that are close to where people are – where we live our lives, in the municipalities – and offers that match the individual needs we have. Therefore, bed places are not a good measure of whether our mental health protection is good. In some cases we need bed places, but I record that the number of offers that are now making people close to where they are, and the number of daily offers is increasing, and that the skills of those working in this sector are also increasing. We are working to strengthen municipalities to take on the role they have after the Interaction Reform, including in the field of mental health and drugs, although the funding part of it will come in a few–three years. I don't want to stand as a health minister and say that I want to cancel the decisions that have been made regionally between specialist health services and between municipalities, which are now to have agreements between the hospital and the municipality. I assume that they have a good overview of the choices they can make, which are best for the citizens. The whole interaction reform is supposed to help us to be seen in the past and to improve our supply early on. Then we'll assess the impact of the interaction reform when it comes, and I'm busy having close contact with the user organisations, with the specialist health services and with the hospital regions to have the best possible overview of that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e101	I'm not sure those out there, who need help now, understood very much of what the Health Minister just said. But what everyone heard was a mantra that also applies to somatic matters, namely that the government claims that bed places are not a good goal. So the number of beds in the somatic area has been reduced, the number of beds in the psychiatry has to be reduced, and of course there must be consequences – especially for patients who need daily treatment. The Progress Party believes that this situation is totally unsustainable. When will the government come to Stortinget with the plan it itself has promised regarding suicide prevention? If it comes at all, will it be seen in the context of the decrease in the number of daily places that have taken place in psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e108	We come with that action plan against suicide and self-harm. I'm going to be extremely careful to stand and draw a one-to-one relationship between the 500-depth tragic suicides and the number of bed places in the psychiatry. I want to say yes, since 2005, there are 1,600 fewer beds. There has been a sharp increase in outpatient services and outpatient teams, which in the overall picture is a better offer for those in need. Then I have to quote again that until 2011, the activities in mental health protection for adults – then we have good numbers – have increased significantly: from 800,000 to 1200,000 consultations. That's an increase of 43 pst. in six years. For young people there is an increase of 25 pst. The question is how do we reach those who need and what kind of offers they get. I have looked at this around many municipalities and I am absolutely sure that the direction – the great development towards being able to provide services closely through the ambulance team and the kind of help – is better offering throughout for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e115	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e118	In all contexts where we have discussed waiting lists, queues, closures and offers, the Minister of Health has been concerned with prevention. There we quite agree: prevention must be strengthened! But then the nurses' union has recently had a survey among the health sisters, and seven out of ten nurses say they don't ask children if they have trouble, because they know they don't have time to follow up the answer they get. There are 860 health sisters missing, according to the Nursing Association, all over the country. This means that every day children go out there who are not seen are not followed up and are not allowed to participate in the Minister of Health prevention. Will the Minister for Health take responsibility for this important aspect of prevention, or is this also a responsibility to be shared with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e127	I am not critical of this, that the municipalities take responsibility. That's why I don't want to use the words 'push over'. I would like to say that it is important that the municipalities have that responsibility because they see and know their schools best. I was at Sørumsand School in the representative's county recently and saw what they get at that school – a high school – where they now have offers from school health services that are very flexible to meet the needs of the school. I think that's a need they see much better than the department does from the outside. But then I'll give the representative right. I think the school health service is an underrated resource in prevention. I think the health sisters are an underrated resource in that work. That's why I'm concerned when we're working on the public health report that comes later in ours, that we're raising that perspective. It is then important that municipalities get knowledge of this and that they also assess the use of their resources in taking responsibility for public health and prevention, which they have under the law – that this is an important way to bet. So I think we can find each other in that area. This is important, and it is important to follow it up in the municipalities – not by pushing it over to them, but by giving them confidence that they can see the needs closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e136	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e139	The description of the psychiatry provided by the Minister of Health is psychiatry as it was before and under the psychiatry escalation plan. At that time, the large - scale institutions of psychiatry were laid down, replaced by smaller hospital wards, outpatient clinics, and district psychiatric centers. It is these offers that are now affected by closure. The whole idea behind the escalation plan was that a cross-political consensus was that this was a field that was down priority over many years and needed a lifting. When the escalation plan was over, the Centre-Right government introduced a golden rule to ensure that this growth was preserved by the fact that each hospital had to have a higher growth in psychiatry than in somatics every year. That rule has removed this government, and that's what we now see the consequence of. So you might think you're going to have more decentralised psychiatry, but then the offer that's in the municipalities needs to be built up before you drop out of the specialist health service. Now put one down in the specialist health service before there is an offer in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e145	We take with us all the lessons from the escalation plan. I do not agree that there is a systematic reduction in specialist health services. There is a continuing transition to a more day-to-day offer, which was not the end of the escalation plan. I also believe that what we have discussed many times in this Chamber, linking some groups to a higher budgetary growth rate, is a bad tool. Now there is a record increase in the budget for activity in the hospitals for 2013. Especially in areas related to psychiatry, there is room for good growth in the future. In the case of municipalities, I just have to repeat that they are receiving record transfers of free income. If we believe that the municipalities will do the best for the population, and I believe in it until the opposite is proven, I will also believe that they follow the good prescriptions for mental health protection, which are often more reasonable than the big institutions by getting close with outpatient teams, school health services, among other things. and the type of innovative work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e150	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e153	The SINTEF report on mental health work in municipalities in 2011 challenges the use of less resources in municipalities for preventive mental health work because the money goes to hospitals and the most resource-intensive users. So we've had a study that shows that seven out of ten health sisters experience that they can't ask the questions that should be asked, because you don't have time to follow up. This is a serious description of the situation in mental health work, in particular prevention. Now, when I ask the Council of State what the government will do about preventive mental health work, I hope to not hear the answer about increased municipal transfers because it has something to do with respect for those who are at work today, who cannot ask the questions because they do not have time to hear the answers, and because they feel that preventive mental health work is not being prioritised enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e160	I don't know if I can satisfy the wishes of the representative, because one of the important tools we have is how we adopt our budgets and enable the municipalities to do the job. To have the power to transfer free funds is to have confidence in the municipalities and the work they do. Let me just say that. Then I agree with the representative that there is too little prevention work in this area. That is one of the reasons why, as Minister of Health, I took the initiative to present a public health report, because I think there are three words that apply to health work in this century, and that is prevention, prevention and prevention. This is true in somatic settings, and it is true in mental health, and not least of young people at an early age. I fully agree with that. Clearly it is a challenge that prevention is not – I was saying – a mechanical budget line as much other health work is, because it is about efforts in very many fields – preventing and seeing early. Here, I really don't think the representative and I disagree, but what I'm putting a lot of emphasis on is that it's the municipality that has to be at the center of that work. They have legal responsibility for it, and they are also best equipped to see the needs locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e169	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e172	We understand that the government is against having a job in the municipalities, for example. to strengthen the school health service, promoted by the Left by a number of budget proposals. What the Council of State really has in mind are the direct instructions of the hospitals. I now have what is a preliminary version of the company protocol that Health South-East has received, dated 30 January. There is not a single word on child and youth psychiatry. I have already received enquiries from health professionals in the South-East, that they have been clearly informed that this is not a priority field on the part of the government, and this is something that the Council of State has informed that there is no high priority. This has been reduced over time, and now professionals are also told by the government – the enterprise protocol states that this is not a priority for the government. Why don't you see how important it is to work with children and youth and psychiatry to prevent all the problems we've been talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e179	The representative gives me opinions that I don't have, when she concludes that the government is against a coup d'état with the municipalities for the school health service. I said in a previous answer that I think it's an area we need to bet more strongly on. Municipalities are responsible, but it is an important resource in preventive public health work. There is going to be a good light in the big message that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e184	You have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e189	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e194	The government has voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e199	There's one who has the word at once, and now it's the Council of Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e203	Now I was put out a little bit, but I can confirm that the work on mental health is not a low priority in the assignments of regional health companies. In my speech to the hospitals before the business meeting, there was a significant space devoted to it, and in the mission paper and in the government budget, which is the basis for the way we use the resources here, there is no doubt that this is an important work. Remember, too, that hospitals have concluded agreements with the municipalities as part of the Cooperation Reform. Here we also find ongoing cooperation. It has to be over the years, but I think we're on the right track to be able to deal with the big challenges we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e208	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e211	My question also goes to the Council of State Gahr Støre. There are today some 270,000 patients in line in health care. That's about. 60,000 more than when the government took over. They wait on average over two months for treatment. Some of these people think it's okay, but others live in distress because they may have cancer, some are sick, more than 2,000 of these are rushing, but are motivated to become drug free, nearly 7 000 are adults with severe mental disorders, and over 2,000 are children and young people with severe mental disorders. What they have in common is that everyone is referred to in public health. This means that we agree that these have both the right and the need for research and, where appropriate, treatment. In the right, there are too many people waiting too long for absolutely necessary health care. Today at the NRK, we heard Health Economist Hagen who had come to the conclusion that the public paid the private clinics about half of what we pay the public hospitals for the same intervention and treatment. From this he has come to the strange conclusion that since the Right wants to use more private, it becomes twice as expensive. One must almost be a professor to come up with such an calculation. Of course, the right will pay no more private than today, the rates will be set on the basis of the results of tenders. Hagen's investigation, on the other hand, is not unique in what we get from using private resources. The SINTEF report of 2000 compares private practices with public outpatient clinics — the answer is that the costs per consultation were significantly lower than in public outpatient clinics, although the patient base was similar. I want to ask the Minister of Health: if someone wants to cut the queue, in both length and time, isn't it reasonable to pay private a little over half of what you pay the public hospitals to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e224	Let me start with the question: Well, that's fair, and that's why the government does it. We're using 12 billion. from the hospital budget to purchase services from private individuals, inter alia. to bring down bottlenecks, to bring down waiting times where it is rained. The representative knows that the difference between him and me in this is that I believe that the responsibility must lie in the public hospitals, which have a total responsibility for the hospitals and the health services. The representative has a comparison between a private clinic operating a simple intervention and the cost of it, and an equivalent intervention in a hospital with a high level of social responsibility, emergency preparedness, training and research. All that has to be included in the price that the hospital calculates. That is why it is wise for the hospital to buy some services from the outside to take off flaps, but the responsibility must lie there. Then I have to say that the representative and I have clarified this every time we meet: yes, it says 250,000 and waits for treatment, but never has less been waiting for treatment compared to those who receive treatment, because we have never treated more. That means that the waiting time is about the same as it was six to seven years ago. I'll get it down further, and in two months it's not the same as waiting, because people are coming to treatment. It's a strength in our health care system. What this professor has calculated is not a proposal from the Right. I see that the Right feels very upset that a professor has been counting on their proposals. I think it's weird for a party that's too knowledgeable. But he's taken a mission from the Ministry of Health to look at different funding models, because we're always going to find better ways to solve the societal mission. What he says quite clearly is that if you pick up that type of service on a tender, you get a lower price than if it is a fixed price financing. If the representative's so-called free choice of treatment is to be made on a current tender week by week, I think it will require an enormous bureaucracy to implement it. There must then be a type of pricelist that is out in these private clinics that the representative cares about, and then Hagen's studies, which I have not read – I have not read the report – show that it is a more expensive variant to buy private services than the one we use today with good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e237	In the Right Model, the State will fix the fare and one will set the fare based on the tariffs obtained through the tender. That doesn't add up to Hagen's calculation. But it is absolutely right that the core disagreement at this point between the Right and the Workers' Party is: Who should have the power – the hospitals or the patients? The right has always been on the side of patients in these questions. In 1999, when the Right fought through free hospital choice, the Workers' Party said: ‘The majority will point out in particular that a general and nationwide right to the free choice of hospitals could lead to a reduction in local healthcare provision’. Exactly the same arguments also had the Labour Party when the Right was given individual deadline for patients with a right to treatment – exactly the same arguments. The whole point is that when it comes to public decision, these bottlenecks arise that patients today experience. How does the Minister of Health see the possibility, when the hospitals themselves decide how much to buy privately, that one avoids patients experiencing allowances for healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e251	For me, this is not really a matter of power, but of which solution gives the most treatments and the best possible quality as fair as possible. I believe that the Right Model, as we know it, varies slightly from week to week, and I understand that it needs to be further investigated. It's unclear how much it will cost, it's a little bit unclear what it's going to apply to, and it's a little bit unclear what patients' rights will have. My impression of the Right Model is that it is going to take money out of the framework of the public hospitals. I have not been to one public hospital that wants it to solve their problems. It comes – in my opinion – to go beyond very important tasks for patients, in a model where hospitals are left with the complex, complex suffering, and the clinics that Höie has a lot of care for will be able to handle things that you can finance and calculate quickly. When, in addition, it turns out to be a more expensive way to buy private services, with more bureaucracy, especially in the big cities and centres, I have after careful thought come to the conclusion that I think it is a worse model than to continue working on improving the hospitals we have today, and buying services from private people like we do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e260	Three follow-up questions have been asked so far, and it is given cause – first by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e263	I see it as the Health Minister says that it is not the Right proposal he is investigating, but other things. But it's a little strange when Hagen in an interview in the NRK today early on thinks that it's the Right's proposal he's investigating. It may therefore appear that Gahr Støre is using taxpayers’ money to investigate his electoral arguments against the policies of other parties, which, in this case, are not in line with the proposal put forward by the Right on the free choice of treatment. Or is it that the Council of State has ordered an investigation because he intends to change the government's policies regarding the use of private forces in the health sector, to reduce treatment queues and get people back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e270	I am committed to being able to change the government's policy continuously when we have knowledge of it and good solutions. I hope that the right doesn't get offended at that, but it wasn't for the sake of the right we asked Hagen to do that investigation. It was to get a better picture of how we best use the resources when buying services from private, non-profit, volunteers. We do that, and we're going to keep going, but we have to keep focusing on how we get the best results again for that money. Then I can honestly see that the Right in many contexts says that they want researchers, academics and military people to talk freely about what they see and experience. Here's Hagen's interview with NRK – I haven't ordered the interview, I haven't asked the questions, I haven't even heard the interview, so I can't understand that there's so much to go for. Now we're all going to read the report and see what conclusions we can draw from it. If we learn that our purchases of private services, which are today 10 pst. of the hospital budget, can be made better, more reasonable and, above all, provide higher quality for patients — yes, preferably. If, in response to the NRK, Hagen finds out that the model presented by the Right does not provide cheaper or better services, well, then it must be his responsibility to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e279	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e282	I hope at least that the Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on one thing – it costs money to treat people. The Minister of Health is very proud that health businesses are doing well to keep their budgets. In fact, he should be proud of the 270 000 patients who are in line, because it is thanks to their expectation that the budgets will be kept. The government's appropriations are not directed as needed. When the Committee on Budgets asks about the objectives of reducing the number of people waiting, we are told that there is no target for this. When we ask about the goal of cutting the waiting time, you don't have your own goal for it. But I wonder if the Minister for Health at least agrees with such a simple conclusion as that increased appropriations give lower waiting time and less payments of sick pay, which could once again treat even more people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e290	The last one is a big question -- everything else like that -- we use more money, can we get more for it? But this society is going to have a balanced economy. The allocations to the hospital sector have gone up over the years, we spend a lot of money there. It is an economy where the market does not regulate supply and demand. That is why we must try to find a framework for this, and I will return to the starting point for this debate today: prevention and public health. The goal is not to end up in hospitals – it is not through hospital treatment that we measure the health of the population. That's the big question. Am I proud of 270,000 in line? That's an interesting question. I want people to wait as soon as possible for treatment. If you have urgent needs, don't wait. If you have serious needs, wait a minute. On average, you wait about two months. But that's an expression that it's treatment on the other side. It'll be treatment for them. People can wait because they will be treated. It's not right that we haven't set goals. The target is 65 days. For some diseases, some hospitals are far below, but in some areas we are struggling. We have to work on that every day, get involved with regional health companies and with hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e299	Line Henriette Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e302	The Christian People's Party wants a strong and secure public health service that we have the security to provide the treatment we need when we get sick. We don't want a parallel commercial healthcare alongside the public, and we have a slightly different approach than the Right. But after almost eight years with the Health Minister from the Workers' Party, we do not see that the best solutions are there either. The best solutions are well available in the centre, with a clear public governance responsibility, a strong public health service, complemented by good private offerings and strong input from non-profit actors. In 2010 we had an exciting round in Stortinget about ideal actors, with a position from the Business Committee where a majority, the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, said: ‘The majority believe that the non-profit sector has an independent self-esteem and that it is a political task to ensure the preservation of the sector.’ My question to the Council of State is: What framework conditions will the Council of State provide for the non-profit sector now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e316	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party was involved in that wording, and we are dedicated to getting it done. I've been around and seen a lot of excellent work done by volunteers and ideals, especially in the area of drugs, psychiatry and that part of health care. That's what we want to keep going. Then it is clear that there are challenges for these organisations when they face tenders from the municipalities: to deliver tenders that the municipalities choose to use, based on the economy of the municipality. We have now seen developments towards the conclusion of long-term agreements with NPISHs. There's something I've wanted and asked for – now it's happening. It's positive. I see that we can get a review of the unique quality that the ideals can offer in the area of drugs, so that we can weigh it up in the contracts that the municipalities enter into. So I see that they have a place, but I also see that there's a place they have to fight for, up against those who are going to order places. But the important thing here is to make good offers to the users, and where that is the case, I'm sure we're going to have it as a very important feature of our health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e325	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e328	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yesterday was, in fact, a historic day. Then the name Palestine was used for the first time, probably, by a foreign minister in this room, and it underpins the support that Norway has given to it in the United Nations context. It also gives some duties, you might think, related to what it means to be treated as a state. I am sure the Minister for Foreign Affairs is well aware of the report that was in the NRK on Sunday, where state-funded Palestinian TV served clear antisemitism. We know that Norway supports the Palestinian authorities with several hundred million dollars a year. We also know that there is a budget support that might well be going to finance that kind of business. Among other things, we had: an example from children's television, where children express that their enemy Zion – i.e. Israel – is Satan with tails upon which it comes from the programme leaders: Bravo. I don't have to go into all of these examples. I think the Foreign Minister is familiar with this. I'm surprised, however, that the State Secretary, who said, reduces this to a small example problem and says that it's part of a political arena, almost as if this is something we have to count on. I would like to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs the opportunity to give a clear indication of what Norway's position is on this significant problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e341	We take a sharp distance from any expression of antisemitism, and for many years we have been working systematically with all parties in the Middle East conflict to reduce the pit for mutual hatred and hostility. We too are very upset by the same report, and yesterday our representative to Palestine raised this with President Abbas's office and referred to this specific programme as an example and said that this is a kind of statement and attitude we cannot live with. We got the answer that it is also the President's office fully agreeing. They wanted to pursue this case and see how this could have happened. They confirmed again, as we have heard in previous conversations, that they do not want to participate in this. I want to stress that we have been directly involved in projects to develop both curricula and schoolbooks for Palestinian children. There has been a study, led by Professor Wexler at Yale University, on what the school books on the Palestinian and Israeli sides look like. His main finding is that it is not a systematic call for hatred, but that it is correct from both sides to put the counterparty in a worse light than you might wish. He concludes that Israeli textbooks in this regard are better than Palestinians, but it is not a systematic hate project. So it is, as the representative Syversen points out, that Norway contributes to budget support – we contribute approximately. 7 pst. of the budget support. The EU, European donors, contributes by 50 p.m., the United States by 20 p.m., and others, among others. Arab donors, contribute to the rest. We cooperate with the other donors on this in our dialogue, and there I have a special responsibility as head of the donor country group to the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e350	I am pleased that there is now a much stronger announcement that this is unacceptable from the Norwegian side. The impression – I reserve the right to cut – which was at least given in the NRK Dagsrevyen on Sunday, was, in my and Christian People's Party's opinion, not satisfactory at all. School books are one thing – we can discuss that – but now we are talking about state-funded and state-controlled television broadcasts from the Palestinian territories. It is, with respect to reporting, not the first time this problem has been raised. I have a lot of questions here that, among other things. The Christian People's Party has asked the same thing, from 2000 onwards. My question is, what do you do to the Palestinian self-government so that it can end this, as opposed to what you have done in the past, as you have also said that you want to take it up with the Palestinian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e361	As I said in my previous answer, we immediately took this up at a high level with the Palestinian authorities, who responded that they would pursue this, and that they did not want that kind of expression to come through a Palestinian TV channel. I don't think it's being edited by the president's office either, but it's clear that since we're an important partner and an important giver together with a number of other Western and Arab countries, we have an interest in what's going on in this field. As I was quite thorough in my presentation yesterday, we have a special and elevated focus on ‘hate speech’, on fear of alienation, on hateful utterances, wherever they come from, including under anti-Semitic banners. We're busy pursuing that. I would like to stress strongly that my State Secretary Torgeira Larsen, who is actually leading this project, is very concerned about this, so if it's made another impression, it's neither his intention nor my intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e368	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first, Dagfinn Højbrätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e371	Based on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has now said, I assume that it is the government's view that Norwegian taxpayers should not finance hate propaganda through state-funded and state-controlled television in the Palestinian territories. This has been taken up by the Christian People's Party, as our parliamentary leader has now explained, repeatedly and again, and we have now received from former Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre and from Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide the same assurances about Norway's clear position and Norway's willingness to take this up. History repeats itself. The question is what the government will do in addition to sending notices that we do not like this. Is it the case that Norway will take action to ensure that Norway is at least not involved in financing the hate project that Palestinian children's television is obviously still there?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e381	First of all, I can answer clearly yes to the fact that it is not the government's intention to finance hate propaganda from the Palestinian side – if there is any doubt about it. Nor is it the case that there is any support from Norway for this TV channel. I've been assured of that. But, of course, we are giving general support to the Palestinian authorities, in line with what the United States is doing, with what Europe, the EU, is doing, and with what a number of other donors are doing. We coordinate this, because on the Israeli and Palestinian sides, there is an understanding that it is important that the Palestinian self-government authorities are able to establish the elements of a state, so that one can move forward towards a two-state solution. In almost all my conversations with the Israeli authorities, I have been assured that Israel is happy that we are, because, alternatively, the prospects of peace and a two-state solution would be gone. So I think it's very important that we don't slip away what's now achieved. But we're very concerned about this. We've taken it up, and we're still going to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e386	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e389	It's good that you take this up and that you're worried. But as the previous representatives have pointed out, the results have been largely absent. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that he has any other means to push with it, when we understand that cutting the financial support is excluded? For example, you want to do this. raising this as a theme of the donor country group and setting this as a condition in relation to what is also referred to by the foreign minister, namely the international project under way to support under the Palestinian self-government authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e396	I want to confirm that this is also a topic for the donor country group and the interaction between the different donors. Then I would like to stress that even though we now again saw such an example as was documented here – and as the Israeli organisation Palestinian Media Watch pointed out to the NRK, that it is correct and well documented that this happened – it is not that nothing has happened. Through a long-term job – that's why I mention it, among other things. School books — we saw that there were significant challenges some years ago. Here I dare say that, for example. curriculum and school books, including in Gaza, are among the best in the Arab world in terms of how to deal with Jews and the other party. But it is important to understand that this is a region characterized by deep tensions and deep conflicts, where the religious overtones of it are clearly present – and not just on the Palestinian and Arab sides. Therefore, it is important that we also have a reconciliation work on attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e403	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e406	Let me start by taking a distance from all the hate propaganda. Hat propaganda in the Middle East builds up the barriers to peace and it weakens a possible two-state solution. With budgetary support as an instrument, we indirectly contribute to supporting everything that has state funding. I believe that a good project is a Norwegian-supported project where Palestinians and Israelis go through together, among other things. the textbooks of each other. It helps to create greater credibility and not least a more truthful story of history. A Palestinian, dependent on budget support, also has the opportunity to make international demands clearer. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself stressed the importance of Norway leading the country group, and the fact that Norway stands alone at 7pst. of that budget support. Together with the EU and the United States, it is close to 80 pst. of the budget support. How will the Minister for Foreign Affairs make it concrete? Can we expect a clear demand now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e415	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark underlines the importance of taking a break from all hate propaganda. It is distributed to all parties in the Middle East, and it is important that the parties and we work together to reduce it where it had to appear. Then there are obviously quite special overtones associated with everything that tastes of antisemitism, which we must have a special look at, which I was very clear on in yesterday's presentation, which we are given the opportunity to debate tomorrow. We believe that a number of projects in which we have been involved have reduced this phenomenon. I would say that, compared with the situation in a number of other Arab countries, there has been more awareness on the Palestinian side than in a number of other Arab countries about the importance of caution in distinguishing between the deep political disagreement that obviously exists with Israel as regards the way forward and the relationship with the Jews. But then there are some problems that remain. That's why we're going to continue to work on it bilaterally and as head of the donor country group.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e422	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e425	I will continue to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I want to drill a little bit on the same thing, but extend it a little bit. In yesterday's presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke well about important values and the fight against hateful expressions. He even drew up examples of Norwegian support through, among others, EEA means of combating racism, antisemitism and homophobia in central European countries. At the same time, through both the foreign policy and development agenda, Norway has an economic issue with many countries in the world, and it commits. We have now clarified this in relation to a challenge related to the Palestinian territories. But we see in other countries — like Uganda — examples of hateful language and hateful behavior. Another global evil is corruption. There's a zero tolerance for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs attend and think loudly and give a vision of zero tolerance in the case of Norwegian support to authorities and countries that allow — or do not actively combat — for example. Racist, anti-Semitic or homophobic statements in the media or through other channels over which these countries obviously have an influence, so that we can have a consistently clear and clear position and make demands when Norwegian money is involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e432	Once again, I am very pleased with the involvement of the representative, Mr Höglund, in an area I myself am very engaged. This concerns the promotion of minority protection, whether it be ethnic and religious minorities, or for example. sexual minorities. There was once again a very central theme in yesterday's presentation. We have the first zero tolerance for corruption, to which it was also referred. So we simply want to be on the international front in the fight against discrimination against minorities of all kinds. That is why we have a minority project of our own. We use every appropriate opportunity to contact authorities — not least in those countries where we feel that these principles are being broken — not only to take it up and protest, but also to go into those places, arenas and processes where this can be better, for example. in Constitutional work. I think it's important to say from, but it's also important to contribute to things actually getting better beyond the protest itself. Therefore, it is one of the most important arguments for a strong engagement policy. So I would like to point out that my colleague, Mr Eidsvoll Holmås, has just announced that there will be a broad review also of the recipients of Norwegian aid, in view of an even greater focus on democracy and human rights, both with the reward of those who meet our expectations and reactions to those who do not. So this is definitely a work the government is actually working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e441	That's a good signal. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with me that the new signals are a recognition that Norway has been too permissive and too unwilling to use the means of power it has, that it is a goal for Norway to be more clear in terms of which countries we support and what values they are going to follow, and that Norway will cut the support and stop the aid if necessary when these values are breached with consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e447	I would like to emphasise once again that I believe it has been an objective for the Norwegian authorities for many years to focus on these issues, so it is not a new insight that we need to be concerned with human rights, minority protection and democracy promotion. But as I was in the middle of yesterday, we are very busy stressing that we are now living in a time when power is moving, other types of actors are growing up. It's a global normative debate going on in many different arenas, other arenas than the ones we used to think about, and the old arenas have become so important. Then it's important that we have these value dimensions heavily present in all our functions. In that sense the answer is yes. If the representative Høglund with zero tolerance thinks that the day there's a hateful expression in a country, we're going to cut the support immediately, I'd say that that's not necessarily the best way to do things better. It may be good for our own conscience, but not necessarily for the conditions of that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e456	There will be three follow-up questions – first Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e459	We hear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, but we must state that it is obvious that the government's action against the Palestinian authorities has not had the desired effect. I want to focus on a statement by the Foreign Minister's predecessor, then Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, who said in an interview with TV on July 2nd, 2008 that it is totally unthinkable that Norwegian aid goes to TV productions that mediate Jewish hatred. If that was right at the time, I should like to lie down, but I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he believes that it is unthinkable that Norwegian aid goes to TV productions that mediate Jewish hatred today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e468	I repeat that there is no direct support from Norway for this television channel mentioned here. I can certainly say that – so no transfer from Norway to this TV channel. But it is obvious that when you give general budget support, it will in principle have many reductions, because it goes into a large budget with many different expressions. That's why we think we're clearly justified in saying something about how we react to this. I have a very strong need now to stress that the response from the Presidential Office to Abbas yesterday, in conversation with our envoy, was that they too are taking a break from this, and that they wanted to pursue this. I'll take that as a positive sign. We're going to follow that they're actually doing it. Then I'll again refer to the very many things that have happened for example. improving the training material, which I believe is very important because it is often where in many countries we see the long-term hostile attitudes being created. That's where I think it's much better than before we got involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e477	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e480	I am pleased that the Minister for Development adopts important parts of the Right Policy. Stricter requirements for all beneficiaries of Norwegian assistance are important. There are requirements for respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, anti-corruption, etc. It is a central element of development policy and must be so. Far more important than the protest, which may be important in itself, is how we follow up on the protest and how we follow up on action. For Norway, the simple example of Palestinian Media Watch and Palestinian TV and what has been revealed there is particularly important to us as the leader of the donor country group. While I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is positive that the President's office in the Palestinian territories responds, I expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to do something other than just follow it up, that he also follows it up with concrete action by the donor country group and says that this is unacceptable behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e489	The answer to the last question is yes. I think that's what I've mentioned sometimes. We consider this to be clearly unacceptable. We're saying it's unacceptable – we did it last night. We've done it many times before, and we've also committed ourselves to a number of projects to help reduce this problem in the Middle East in general and in the Israel–Palestine conflict in particular. It's a very important point that you've helped to put together representatives from both sides to look at how they describe each other. Antisemitism must be condemned as antisemitism wherever it comes from. In addition, we should recognise that this is part of a context where there are significant challenges to attitudes towards the other party – on both sides of the conflict. We don't have to sub-communicate that in any way now, because I think I'm present both places without saying that it's equally distributed. I feel that's what we can do. We can say that, we can repeat it, we can focus on it, we can follow up. And then it is not that the President of Palestine has a direct editorial responsibility for each and every television station, but they have to take responsibility for these attitudes in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e494	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e497	It is not difficult to disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we cannot, of course, govern our development policy according to whether the countries with which we cooperate fully live up to Norwegian values. Then a billion dollars would be set free. Some here in the Chamber might wish so, but the Christian People's Party does not want it. We want us to follow up on human rights in the countries with which we work. We believe that such cooperation provides a platform for doing so. That's exactly why we're dealing with a case like this, because we think it's so serious that year after year, time after time, it hasn't gotten better, but on the contrary, it's repeating itself in broadcasts targeting children from a state-funded and state-controlled television. The Palestinian representative in Norway stated in an e-mail to the NRK in connection with this entry that this was not common and not part of Palestinian culture. Wouldn't it be an idea that the Minister of Foreign Affairs called this representative into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and expressed what he has now said in the Grand Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e504	I would first like to say that we have made direct contact with the President's office. Then we have expressed it on a high level to the Palestinian authorities. There is nothing wrong with communicating this to the representative in Oslo, but he dares to be familiar with our view since this was communicated to the Presidential Office in Ramallah yesterday from the head of our representative office, Hans Jacob Frydenlund. So I think that message has come out clearly. It'll keep doing that. So I want to say once again that an underlying premise in all the questions is that it hasn't improved. I'm not sure if we can say that with certainty. I'm not going to say the opposite, but my impression is that there's been a lot of work on attitudes and that they've rather gone towards it better than the worse. But as we've all just seen, the problem hasn't gone away. I don't think we're going to think with this we're never going to see this kind of expression again. That's why it's important that we engage heavily in resolving the conflict, because that's where the real answer lies, that we get a successful two-state solution for Palestinians and Israelis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e511	We move on to the next, and today's last, main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e515	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Government announced on Monday that it would consider supporting a UN operation in Mali if the Security Council set up such a strength and that any Norwegian contribution would be prioritised there over the EU Mission. It is now under construction and no further justification for this assessment was given. The establishment of a UN operation may take place by converting the African-led AFISMA into a UN force when the situation permits. It remains unclear when a possible decision could be taken. In the meantime, Security Council Resolution 2085, which is then the mandate of the AFISMA, is to be implemented. What are the political and operational considerations behind the government’s decision to prioritize a possible future UN operation rather than an EU mission that could be faster in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e526	I would like to begin by stressing that until last week, as the representative Eriksen Soreide also points out, it was going to be a pure African force, AFISMA, which was supposed to be responsible for the security of Mali out in the field, while there was also a small training mission for the long-term training of Malian security forces. There are two different missions. If we were to be with the military, there was only one option. Since we are not an African country, it was only possible to participate in the EU mission. In my meetings with my colleague Laurent Fabius in Paris a week ago, he stated that he wanted to take the initiative, along with several African countries, that AFISMA became a United Nations force. It could allow for non-African contributions because UN command and control could be obtained, UN planning capacity could be obtained, and not least the financing model that provides automatic funding once such a decision has been taken by the Security Council. Then we came into a new situation in which we had to consider whether we should primarily contribute through the UN, where we are, or contribute primarily through the EU, as we often do, but where we do not, after all. We have noticed that, among other things. Denmark has indicated an interest in prioritising its participation through the UN. We're going to talk to them about and whether we can do something together. But we thought it was unnatural for Norway to participate in both an EU operation and a UN operation in the same country. That I think would be spreading resources a lot. So it's hard to say more about any Norwegian contribution to this upcoming United Nations mission just because planning hasn't come very far, but we've signaled an interest in it, and will also follow it up to the United Nations in New York and France and the other initiators that this is happening. This is done in close understanding with France, which plays a special role here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e537	Right is not necessarily the opponent of any Norwegian contribution to a United Nations force. In that case, we have to assess when and if it comes to Stortinget. But I still want to point out that there are big differences between the two operations. The EU training mission is a concrete and limited contribution with a capacity we have and that we use in Afghanistan. This is something we can – training and training are Norwegian forces good at. It will also be studied easily into a Nordic contribution together with our closest allies, and it will come into place quickly. We also have good experience in performing EU operations earlier through Atalanta, among others. AFISMA is precisely defined by being an African operation through ECOWAS and AU. We're not sure what troops, command and control will look like, and we also know that it's challenging to design UN mandates in these operations. We've seen this in many other operations. So the question is, why is an explicit selection of a Nordic framework – which is a goal of the cooperation we have between Nordic countries – a limited and accessible capacity that we could provide quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e546	Firstly, I would like to say that at least on the map we have in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Denmark is also in the Nordic region, so that the Nordic framework is possible both through the UN and the EU, while Sweden and Finland look to the EU operation. I can also convey that I spoke with my Swedish colleague, who expressed an understanding that Norway made this choice – when that opportunity was available. What a Norwegian contribution will be, we'll get back to. We come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when and if necessary. It depends on whether the UN's demand capacities we have. The idea has been in place for many years – this has been very central, among other things. in the Soria Moria declarations and government policies – that it is important to contribute both to regional capacities where conflicts occur, this could mean the African Union or ECOWAS, and also contribute to the strengthening of the UN through contributions from Western countries. What is typically happening then is that Western countries should not be silent with large forces of companies and battalions out in the field, but with so-called facilitating capacities or 'enabling' capacities. We'll get back to that. I think it is politically logical to choose the UN operation when we have that option.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e553	There are three follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e556	In fact, I don't think the Foreign Minister's answer is entirely related, at least not entirely with his own press release just a few days ago, where he says about Mali: ‘Local administration and the State of law must be restored as soon as possible in liberated areas of Mali. If the local population does not experience such a development, it is likely that the areas fall back into the control of the Islamists. The needs are high and immediate’. I wonder what the word «immediately» means to the government. This could have been part of an EU-led operation that is immediately ready. In any case, it is not possible to participate in a UN-led/African action which is definitely not immediately in place. Is it not really this way in this case that it might have been most important to send the SV the crucial word on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e568	To answer first what 'immediately' means, it means 'immediately' to me. That is why we have immediately decided to use funds such as: will go to the construction of local administration, in line with our special broadcast Kai Eide's findings when he recently visited Mali to look at immediate needs. Neither the EU force nor the AFISMA is immediately available, both of which are now under construction. I think the training of Malian security forces is going to take some time before it gives material effect. Therefore, when France gradually withdraws, it is AFISMA or the future UN force that will first enter. So it's going to be the most immediate reaction of effect in the field, while you're going to be somewhere else and train malic forces. Although we support Mali's territorial integrity, there are some issues related to the present Malian government – after it was a military coup there last year – that make it part of an overall assessment. But we support both operations and believe that it is unreasonable to participate in two – and then we choose the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e575	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e578	When it became known on Monday that Norway would not participate in this EU force, the media and the SV who were interviewed were, almost from the perception that Norway would not participate in international forces in Mali. At least it was sold in as a victory for SV. Here it opens, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has opened, for a possible Norwegian participation – if it becomes a UN operation and if we have capacities that are appropriate. Is it the government's overall position to seek a Norwegian contribution, if appropriate, in this UN force?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e585	Yeah, that's definitely the government's overall view. There's a lot of commitment for Mali in all the government parties. Norway has a long-standing commitment to Mali, we have significant assistance, a number of non-governmental organisations have been engaged, and it is a desire to both escalate financial assistance and step up activities to peace and reconciliation. It's also a willingness to participate in the military if we have the right resources to do that. As I have said several times now, we are in favour of the EU operation taking place, and as far as the conversion of AFISMA to the UN is concerned, we support France. There was no doubt in my conversation with my French colleague that what France is now most concerned about is getting this UN force in place. This has created a new situation, and we took it into our assessment. This isn't one party's view, it's the government's overall view.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e590	Dagfinn Højbråten – till today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e594	The head of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, said in the round here in the Grand Chamber after the Prime Minister's statement on the terrorist action in Algeria that the Christian People's Party was critically awaiting a question of military contributions from Norway in Mali. We are therefore taking note of the government's decision, and we are awaiting a possible further outcome from the government in terms of contributions to the UN force. What we are so concerned about right now is that we need to learn from the recognition that we gradually came to after a few years in Afghanistan, namely that the humanitarian and development effort from the start in Afghanistan was too weak in relation to the overall objective we had of combating Afghanistan as a sort of safe port of terrorism. The question is what we've learned from it and what the government will now do on that side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e601	I fully agree with the Højbråten assessment at that point. One lesson I think should be that the time for the major purely Western interventions in non-Western countries should now be over, and we must invest in building regional capacities and participating in regional processes, for example. a UN process with heavy regional African averaging. The second is that we have to think that both humanitarian aid and long-term aid should come in from the first day, and we have to have a national dialogue, because especially in the case of Mali, it is important that we now have better reconciliation between the Tuareans in the north and the peoples of southern Mali, so that the Tuareans are involved and distanced from the foreign Islamist terrorists who have tried to capitalize on the local struggle of the Tuareans. If you don't now get an outstretched hand from Bamako to the Tuareans so that the Tuareans have the basis to stand out from Al Qaida-dominated groups, it won't help with any strength, because then we have a constant and lasting problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e610	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e622	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister for Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e631	The first question is from the representative of Mr Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It seems that the query is physically absent. - That's right. In order not to pause the meeting, the next question is from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen. There is no government council yet. With the approval of Stortinget, the President records that both the petitioner, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, and the Council of State to which the question is to be asked, Jonas Gahr Støre, are present in the Chamber. Is it okay for the hall that we then start with question number. Four? Both the questioner and the state council agree. Then the word goes to ask Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. We handle the matter on the basis that everything has been done is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e644	‘The build-up mass of the psychiatry in the South Trøndelag is so overdue that it hampers the satisfactory and good treatment of mentally ill people. This particularly affects the most ill patients. When is it possible for St. Olavs Hospital to initiate the construction of a new psychiatric emergency centre within the current financial instrument?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e651	I am aware of the need to improve the supply of patients and the working conditions for staff members of the psychiatry in the South-Tronde Team, and that temporary measures have been put in place to address existing needs, without addressing the long-term needs of this important offer. The rapporteur in Trondheim and the county rapporteur in the South-Trøndelag have taken this matter up with me in the past, and I am positive to all the good solutions that can improve the situation for this patient group, and for the employees who work for it. I believe in the Norwegian model, where we make decisions almost those that apply. The Storting has recently granted funds to Health Mid-Norway, and then it is Health Mid-Norway that prioritises and adopts its development projects. I am aware that there are large investment projects in different parts of Central Norway, as elsewhere in the country, that need to be prioritised in relation to each other. People in Central Norway are best aware of the priorities that should be set in this region, and the governance of the health region is broadly complex and delivers good results. I also believe that we can contribute, for example, from government and big business. investment loans when the projects are good enough. As regards the prioritisation of investment measures, the board of Health Mid-Norway has decided to facilitate the construction of a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romesdal, and as I have understood the party Right, the representative's party, this is also a project that they prioritise. The board of Health Mid-Norway has just adopted the investment budget for 2013. Here, investments of more than 1 billion have been made. kr. This year, St. Olav's Hospital will complete Norway's largest hospital expansion. One of Europe’s most modern hospitals has risen to Øya in Trondheim, with total costs of more than 13 billion. kr. Since the state took responsibility for the hospitals, there has been a formidable investment activity in Health Mid-Norway. The value of construction and equipment has increased by more than 60 pst. I would like to stress that there is not just access to funding that is essential for the good development of healthcare. Hospitals need to assess their projects carefully and they need to assess the size of their loans and what they are able to operate through the economy they have. In the past, Hospital-Norway was marked by too low appropriations from Stortinget and a very large deficit. In the middle of the 21st century it was an economic chaos, I would say, in Health Mid-Norway. The accumulated deficit was 2 200 million. kr from 2002 to 2006. The new bulk of population has addressed this situation in order to increase the region’s allocation, to balance the economy and – as a consequence – to invest heavily. This government wants to continue investing in hospitals, and I believe that a new psychiatry building is among the projects that Health Mid-Norway will have the opportunity to realise in the years to come. I want to listen to the discussion about such projects and do what is possible on my part, to support – here as otherwise – that good projects can be realized for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e669	As the Minister of Health may know, a new psychiatrist has been at the heart of the debate in Central Norway in recent years and especially in the last two election campaigns. Then government council Gishe has gone very high on the track. State Council Giske has promised the inhabitants of Central Norway a new psychiatrician in two election campaigns. If the Workers' Party won the election, the Workers' Party would guarantee a new psychiatrist. Now the Workers' Party has been sitting for almost eight years, and now the buildings on the Eastmark are so worn out that it is harmful to the professional offer. As far as I have registered, Giske has not done too much to help put this centre in place. Does the Council of State think that Gisk should have admitted that the promises were more a tip in a campaign, and that he should admit that this was not a promise that was meant to be held?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e676	I want to say that that question is a little on the edge, but I'll try to answer it. I find it difficult to go into and comment on what has happened in the election campaign in the House of Representatives. I can stress that my colleague, Mr Giske, has, on several occasions, taken up the importance of finding a solution to this problem, as the rapporteur and the rapporteur-general have also done. I think the biggest contribution to this is that Health Mid-Norway is now a healthy region that is able to prioritise, be able to invest, be able to carry out major investments. I'm following this development carefully, and I want to do everything I can to facilitate that this project too can be carried out in a proper way. We have not been able to launch projects that are not sustainable, which can break in the implementation phase. I know that temporary repairs are being carried out, but as I said in my post: it is not enough, we want long-term answers. There are many questions relating to psychiatry in the Trøndelagsregion that we have to consider, but I can assure you that both my colleague, the Minister of Industry, me and many others are concerned about the success of this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e683	Perhaps then the representative of Hofstad Helleland can talk to the Minister of Industry about question 2? The representative is now given the floor for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e688	I've tried to get Trond Giske to speak, but it has been difficult, I don't want to say that my question is on the edge because Trond Giske has come with a guarantee in two election campaigns. If the Workers' Party got a majority, Giske guaranteed a new psychiatry building on Øya in Trondheim. Giske also said – I think it was 27 August 2005 – that this was anchored in the Party leadership of the Workers' Party. I understand that the Minister of Health cannot take responsibility for what government councils have promised, but we feel led by them. We feel cheated. Now other representatives from the Workers' Party in Trøndelag have also gone out and challenged the Minister of Health that this must be done. We hope for a solution. I therefore have to ask the Minister of Health if the government will consider changing the financing mechanism, so that it is possible to build an emergency centre in East Germany? Because we now see that the promises of Giske are not possible under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e699	I think it's very important that there will be very clear ambitions locally in election campaigns. I think it is very important that the local, regional, elected bodies – I expressed this in my hospital speech a few weeks ago – have to play a greater role when we create our health and care plan, even when we focus on the hospital structure of the future. I am sure that this commitment is important for Health Mid-Norway, who in his board has good relations with representatives from Trondheim as well. This is not a matter that is not on the agenda, but it must find its place in relation to very many other major needs. It is not that modified funding models produce more money. The investment model we have today is quite impressive, because hospitals are balancing – and they are doing so in this region – it triggers the potential for investment. That's why I'm sure Health Mid-Norway is well aware of the needs of the psychiatry side. This is a field we're occupied with. I am busy getting it done and will do what I can within the framework we have, in order to be able to contribute to it. I have explained it in my reply today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e706	Then there are both questions about question 1 and the state council for question 2 in the hall, so we can go back to the ordinary list. Of course, mitigating circumstances today are that it is difficult to get into the house. The President himself has experienced this when she arrived too late for a meeting earlier today. Question 1, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen, goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e717	Let me be sorry. I almost managed to complete my growing-up period without this. I have no excuse. I'm sorry about the deepest. ‘22. In July 2012, Oswaldo Payá, head of the Christian Democratic Party MCL, and youth leader Harold Cepero died in a car accident in Cuba. On 23 July 2012, I sent a letter to Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre asking the Norwegian authorities to do what they could to ensure that the accident and circumstances surrounding it were investigated and the course of events clarified. What has come out of Norway’s enquiries to the Cuban authorities in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e726	Norway has taken up with the Cuban authorities the accident that led to the death of the Cuban human rights champion Oswaldo Payá. In order to better understand the course of events, the Embassy in Havana has also followed up the event above the embassies of the present country, with Payá's family and with independent observers in Cuba. The Cuban authorities stress in their communication on the matter that it is a road traffic accident in which the driver lost control of the car as a result of high speed and collided in a tree. Payá must have died instantly. Cepero died in a hospital later that same day, as was also mentioned. The European youth politicians who were also in the car, Angel Carromero from Spain and Aron Modig from Sweden, were more easily injured in the accident. Payá’s widows have said in conversations with the Norwegian Embassy and to the media that the family does not trust the government’s version of the incident course. She means, among other things: it cannot be excluded that another car caused the accident. As far as the Norwegian authorities are aware, no survivors or witnesses have been able to confirm that another car was involved in the incident. The driver of the car, Angel Carromero, was accused of negligent killing after the accident. In the trial against him on October 5th last year, he was sentenced to four years in prison. Angel Carromero and the Spanish authorities have accepted the judgment. Carromero is now in Spain in line with a settlement transfer agreement between Spain and Cuba. The death of Oswaldo Payá is a great loss for all those who work for strengthened human rights and democratic development in Cuba. He was a moderate opposition politician with great integrity who was listened to. He was a model for many, both in Cuba and abroad. I want to assure you that Norway will continue to follow the situation of the political opposition in Cuba, and that we will continue to address our concerns in the ongoing contacts with the Cuban authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e741	I thank you for that answer, and I very much appreciate the fact that the Foreign Minister and the government have followed this up. It's probably the case in Cuba that the discussions and rumors about what happened have created a very difficult situation. In addition, both the family of Payá and the other oppositionals, of course because of the lack of trust in the regime, contribute to the fact that there are a little too many questions. We have confirmed a frequency of threats to Oswaldo Payá before death, and there are so many questions. I think to be able to move on, you're dependent on getting an international independent investigation. So my question is, is there anything the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the government could have an impact on getting to?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e746	I would first like to clarify that the contact was made quickly after the letter we received, as early as last August, and there have been several contacts with the authorities since that time. In addition, regarding Eriksen’s questions, we have maintained close contact with the Spanish authorities. The reason is that there was a Spanish citizen who was not only involved in the accident but was also convicted of causing it. The Spanish authorities have not protested about the way the case has been investigated by the Cuban authorities, nor have they requested an independent investigation. Both Carromero himself and the Spanish authorities have accepted the judgment. On that basis, we have found it unnatural that we should go further with demands for an international investigation. So it's true that no survivors or witnesses have been able to confirm that another car caused the accident, even though we understand the frustration that the family feels, given that there had been threats in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e751	I had probably hoped for a little more attendance here, because there's a part that's undecided. The Spanish reaction is also very natural, as they have had one of their citizens imprisoned in Cuba along the way in this process, and thus have also had to be careful in the way they have handled this, for the sake of their citizens. All of this is a cause for concern. But when I first have the chance to talk about Cuba, which has been a heart exposure to me after meeting many of the oppositionals when I visited the country, I also want to challenge a little bit about the general situation. In outer space, it now looks as if Cuba is renewable, the country has had choices, and things are going ‘so much better’. But we hear that the arrests of the opposition have been very frequent, by bloggers, by lawyers and by people who have stood up for human rights. I'm just wondering if the Foreign Minister sees that there's a two-part story about Cuba we're seeing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e756	The Foreign Minister sees that, and I really agree with that description. There are, on the one hand, some promising features, with more opening up for private activities of different kinds, for example: – new political tones that we should like to welcome and support. At the same time, it is still a very demanding country for the political opposition, for which we must also support. Not least there have been some arrests. People have probably been released quickly, but of course there is nothing we can accept; that you are arrested for no reason and for political activity, even though it is better to be released quickly afterwards than to remain seated for a long time. So this is a situation we're following closely. We now have extra close contact with Cuba, not least because we are organising peace negotiations together in Colombia, and therefore we are also using the reinforced dialogue to discuss these issues and both take up and provide advice on the way forward for Cuba. I think it's in our everybody's interest that Cuba is now opening up more to the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e765	I would like to address a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Takeda Nycomed lies in Elverum. The level of costs in Norway has increased from about 20 to close to 60 pst. above the cost level of our trading partners under the current government. The krone price is record strong these days, productivity development and research efforts are weak, and there are no general tax or depreciation measures in place to counter the severe deterioration in competitiveness that we have had since 2005. Will the Council of State now take action against the loss of competitive jobs in general and Nycomed in particular?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e774	The announcement that a closure of the company Takeda Nycomed on Elverum and the transfer of production to other places is now being discussed is worrying, and there is a concern we are taking seriously. That is why I also visited the company on Monday, talked to management and employees and discussed the possibilities. The extra tragedy in this case is that this is not a company with a deficit. On the contrary, it has provided good, solid profits to its owners for many years. Nevertheless, there has been a proposal to close a profitable business, which has had a return, according to the information we have with, of 25-30 pst. in recent years. In my view, this is the free capital at its worst. Right should be satisfied with the fact that the owners of capital play their free game. I am very concerned when such a profitable company is still not considered operational in the future. So there's nothing about the profitability of the company that makes this happen now, it's corporate managers or owners who look into their crystal ball and think that in the future it'll be even more profitable to merge the business into fewer factories. It's hard for us to review that decision. I also find it difficult to see how, with some grip on our part, we would contribute to a very profitable business becoming so much more profitable that when they look into the crystal ball, they find that they are not going to lay down. The wealth tax, which I have seen that the representative of Gundersen complains about in the media, and which is largely the only answer from the Right to get an offensive industrial policy, is absolutely irrelevant in this case, because the owners of Nycomed simply do not pay taxes on wealth to Norway, so it does not affect these decisions at all. In terms of innovation and development, we do a lot with that in Norway. It is up to Nycomed to use the schemes available in Norway, to acquire partners in the Norwegian research community, to use the schemes under the Research Council and Innovation Norway. But where management in the company has also decided, or the owners, that in Elverum one must first of all operate with production – probably because it has been profitable and productive for many years – and not with product development and research to an appreciable extent. I believe that we sometimes have to put down our feet and say clearly from what we think, that this is a wrong decision. Putting down a profitable business with hundreds of employees who have shown productivity is therefore a bad business assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e789	It was one of the more predictable answers I received in Stortinget, but I thank you for the answer. I think it is good that the Minister of Industry has been visiting, but he did not give much more hope, nor did he. I'm looking for the government toolbox. I notice that the Minister of Industry is under attack, but I myself was in an interpellation debate here on Thursday. Then the Minister of Industry's party colleague in Stortinget, Ingrid Heggø, said: 'We have tools in the toolbox. We use the tools. The answer to the Minister of Economic Affairs really does not contain anything. But in many other areas, we use quite powerful instruments, just to avoid what is happening now. I notice that the Workers' Party will legislate the net pay scheme. It is a rather powerful tool to avoid the relocation of an industry. Doesn't the Minister of Industry also think in those ways to counteract the competitive disadvantages we're actually seeing out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e796	I am very uncertain about what the representative really means, whether he thinks we should have a net pay scheme for Takeda Nycomed's employees at Elverum, or what comparison he comes with here. The reality in Norway is that we have the best employment growth of the time, we have 330,000 more jobs in eight years. When the Right sat in government, we had 11,000 more jobs in four years. So the development of the Norwegian economy, also in private business, shows a formidable capacity for growth compared to what happened under the Right. It had taken 120 years to reach the level in 2013 if the growth rate from 2001 to 2005 had continued. The problem at Elverum is not profitability – it is going with profit so it laughs – it is not the competitiveness of Norwegian workers, the pay level, which Gundersen is likely to be concerned with since the level of costs is being discussed, and it is primarily wages in Elverum, so reducing wages may be Gundersen’s alternative, or wealth tax. There is a profit going on, and then the question is which tools to put into a company that has a good return.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e803	I am very surprised that the Minister of Industry does not see the two-way challenge in Norwegian business. He has to see that everything that can turn into oil, lives well, everything that can't, has a challenge. I have noted the outburst of the Council of State against international owners, but I simply note that the wealth tax has a very large place. For government policy, the country is open to international owners, and then one must also bear in mind that the challenge is to be competitive from an international perspective. The Minister of Economic Affairs cannot help but consider that Norway is outside what Takeda thinks is interesting. I am very sorry about that, too. It's a decision that you can't quite understand when the profitability is the way it is, because it's right. These are knowledge-oriented enterprises, research-intensive enterprises, moving out of Norway. Where is the Minister of Industry's toolbox, which has been discussed for seven years now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e812	That toolbox is used for daily use, and with the result that we have 330,000 more jobs, compared to 70 pst. in the private sector. Foreign ownership has been in Nycomed Norway since at least 1997, when British Amersham under GE joined Nycomed. Nordic Capital has been inside. So this is nothing new. There are very many years of foreign ownership. It is not suddenly a foreign ownership that now results in the situation that is. I'll follow up on what's going on in Elverum. If things go so wrong that we're shutting down, which we're going to try to work against as much as we can, we have to contribute to new business by allowing new entrepreneurs to establish themselves with businesses and hopefully as many of the employees as possible to continue. But the fact that the Right now talks about wealth taxes in this case just shows how unimaginable one is in its industrial policy. There is one single measure all the time. Giving the richest in Norway a multimillionaire in tax relief does not help one of the employees of Elverum. I think the representative should see the employees in his eyes and say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e834	This issue is postponed because the Council of State has left. We've already dealt with question 4, since the actors in questions 1 and 2 were not present. So we go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e845	This question, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e848	My question is addressed to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘From a media lookup, we see that the duration of treatment to obtain recognition of foreign education when moving to Norway takes more and more time. The number of applications has increased, and NOCUT does not have the resources to escape the queue. At the same time, these applicants represent a major shortage of skills within a number of professional groups. What action will the Council of State take to reduce the duration of treatment on such applications?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e857	The government has a clear objective that the competences of immigrants should be better used. A major communication on integration policy was presented in the autumn, and in this we have announced that the government will present an action plan in 2013 for better use of the skills of immigrants in the labour market. The number of applications for general recognition of foreign higher education has grown very rapidly in recent years. It has challenged the capacity of NOKUT. Therefore, in the summer of 2012, NOKUT received an additional 3 million. kr, and in the 2013 state budget NOKUT was extended its annual allocation by 10 million. kr, just in order to increase its capacity. This money has to be used, among other things: to follow up on the increased demand and provide more information. The government has already put in place a number of measures to streamline and improve the arrangements for the recognition of foreign education. One of the most important conditions for immigrants to use their skills is information. Therefore, in 2010, the government set up a new information centre, which is part of the NOKUT. The Centre provides users with rapid and transparent information on authorisation schemes and on different paths to the recognition of foreign qualifications. Here, applicants can adapt guidance depending on whether they want further studies or work in Norway. In addition, employers can obtain information on the process of managing jobseekers with foreign qualifications. We have also started work on establishing a new approval base, which is a further development and modernisation of an existing database. The new database will be a procedural tool for universities and colleges when deciding on the professional recognition of foreign education. When this database is put into service at the end of 2013, it will contribute to improving the quality and efficiency of the recognition work at universities and colleges. NOKUT has pointed out to the Ministry of Knowledge that they need to renew their procedural system in order to reduce the time required to process applications and improve the quality of authorisation decisions and information to applicants. Therefore, NOKUT received an additional allocation of 1 million. kr to a project to investigate the introduction of a new ICT system. NOW’S work on meeting the growing demand for recognition of foreign education and providing information and guidance on recognition is important for the government to achieve its objective of better use of the competences of immigrants. Kristin Halvorsen and the Ministry of Knowledge are therefore in close dialogue with NOKUT to help facilitate an authorisation system that is efficient, reliable and not least user-friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e872	Thank you to the Minister of Labour for answering the question on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge. Yes, it's right that things are done. Now it's like last year there were 5,000 applications, that's a formidable top. What makes it extra interesting to get hold of this quickly is that among these applicants, among other things, it is. engineers and teachers who are topping, i.e. two working groups that we really need in our working life, and that we should do everything we can to get ahead of ourselves. This issue has been known for a long time, and the increase now from people from other countries in Europe is quite predictable and should be predictable. It is positive that more resources have been deployed, but the queue is still increasing. Is there no measure, except for the good long-term measures referred to by the Council of State, which is being considered put in place to bring the queue down now? This pressure will remain there beyond the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e881	I can assure the representative that I, not least as Minister of Labour, am also concerned about this. We need all the engineers, but they must have an approved education. Therefore, it is important that we not only have fast recognition systems, but also that skills are required, so that we are sure that the engineers who are given the opportunity to work in Norway have the relevant skills in relation to the jobs to be done. If the representative listened to my answer, there were a number of measures that were just about what we're doing here and now. There was a significant increase in the amount of money needed to be treated more quickly, in order to obtain the number of applications to be dealt with. However, the work on a new and modern database is also action that will be taken during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e888	The work on the new system is important, and I understand that it takes time. It is an action that we may see in 2014 results, as it is clearly planned to take place during 2013. So there's more action here. However, I now want to state that something very specific is being done now. There's nothing to suggest that this top dabs off now. So now one has to repeat a queue that's gone too long, while one has to take all of the new ones that come in. I think it was nice that the Minister of Labour came, because these are areas bordering on each other. It is clear that there is a human side to this: many get challenges when they come to the country, have an intention to get into work, don't get the approval they need, may have problems with residence and work permits. Is there anything the Council of State can do on the labour market side to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e895	This is something that UDI absolutely has a strong focus on. We saw that a few years ago it took a long time to get approval to work in Norway, and now we have had a very severe downtime. It has been important to be able to put foreign labour at the disposal of an increasing demand in Norway. We're going to need even more foreign labour in the future, especially in some areas. In the health sector, we need more, and engineers and craftsmen need more. It is both about increasing the capacity to recognise foreign education and to have rapid procedures for obtaining a work permit in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e906	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘On Saturday 2 February 2013, the Fädrelandsvenn mentioned that the new guidelines in Nav make it more difficult to interpret deaf-blind people. In the article, the paper mentions a 68-year-old man, who has also been the former head of the Landsverbund for the combined visually impaired/deaf blind. He says that the new rules make him more isolated at home. What measures will the Council of State take to ensure deaf-blind interpretation and guidance at the same level as they had before the introduction of the new Nav guidelines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e915	The question is about a change in the guidelines for the right to interpretation and accompanying aid from the public interest for deaf people. The guidelines are drawn up by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to assist case handlers in making proper regulatory decisions. I am aware that in a transitional phase there have been challenges for some users related to the new guidelines, and that is, of course, regrettable. However, I have been informed by the directorate that in those cases where, according to new guidelines, a refusal will now be made, a dialogue between the user and the municipality will be arranged to ensure continued activity. Emergency centres shall also provide training for local authority staff to provide practical assistance to deaf-blind people. And with good dialogue between the Help Center, the Municipality and the users, I believe that things will get a good solution. Interpreting services are provided through the assistance centres. Interpreters are a pressed resource. In addition, some of the tasks previously supported will often fall within the responsibility of the municipalities. This applies in particular to the accompanying services, where responsibility is shared. The background to the changes in the guidelines is that it has therefore been necessary for the State of Labour and Welfare to clarify which tasks fall under the responsibility of the interpreter service and what falls outside it. Some of the tasks that have been supported have been very resource-intensive. As a result, it has been important to clarify that not all management tasks are the responsibility of the people. In this respect, the Directorate has also observed that the practice of the Working and Welfare Seat for the Grant of Interpreting and Accompanying Aid has been varied, with different practices. Thus, in some countries the amended guidelines can be seen as a narrowing, while other states have had a practice that has been in line with the guidelines. The Ministry is also in dialogue with the deaf-blind association, and in a short time a meeting will be held between them and political leadership in the ministry. I believe that through cooperation, we will come up with a good way of dealing with these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e930	In the past, state councils have also stated that there is a lack of interpreters that is one of the major challenges, and that was said in a VG article just before Christmas. I've checked around a little bit, and in West Agder, Trondheim and other places around the country, it's probably interpreting for the deaf blind. I have also checked a little when it comes to how many people are trained, and there are between 40 and 60 interpreters per year. Many of these train for unemployment. There are few interpretation missions – that's the feedback I get, and it forces them to become freelances. The paradox is that people who need interpreters don't get interpreters, and interpreters who need assignments don't get assignments. Does the Council of State feel that it would be important and right that the deaf blind should also have an interpretation of leisure activities, or is it a desired policy that they should be isolated and that that responsibility should be transferred to the municipalities as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e941	It is exactly what is the responsibility between the municipality and the state that is at the heart of this case. We've got a new code, but I'm not saying this works well everywhere. Therefore, I think it is important that we have a good dialogue with the organisations in this area. With regard to the coverage of interpretation services, it is relatively good. It was 90 pst. in 2011, but it's a constant challenge to get enough people to take all the assignments we need people to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e948	I'm just repeating the feedback that at least I get from the interpreter, that they're out of order. We obviously have enough interpreters, and then my question is quite simply: can it be that it is the administration of the interpreters that is wrong? Do we have too few jobs related to the help centres and few employees who work after noon? 16? For short-term tasks are the major challenge for interpretation. I am very pleased that the Council of State – in its previous reply – signaled that she would sit down with both interpreters and several parties and review the interpretation service. Will the Council of State also review and look at a new administration, so that we can make good use of the resources available to interpret those who need to be interpreted, and not least to use the practice that was in force before the summer, so that we can also interpret into activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e955	I do not want to reintroduce a practice that made it different practices in different parts of Norway. It is not a good practice, and it is not a good way to expand interpretation services. In popular terms, it is certainly the responsibility of the people's fear, and what is the responsibility of the municipalities. But there could be grey zones here, and it could be that the practice in many places is not good enough. I want to sit down with the organisations and make an assessment of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e966	‘The power-intensive industry currently employs more than 20 000 people. The farms are scattered throughout the country, and are usually corner stone farms. Enterprises are world leaders in production, but high costs mean that more people will have problems raising themselves on the world market. With the planned increase in the network tariff, the power-intensive companies in the worst case receive additional costs of several tens of millions of years per year. Will the Council of State provide measures to increase the survival capacity of the Norwegian land-based industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e973	Thank you for a good question about an important matter. We are in the middle of a period of major investment in the central network in Norway. Statnet’s investment plans for the next decade are estimated to be between 50 and 70 billion. kr. There is no doubt that we need these investments to ensure value creation, security of supply, a well-functioning national electricity market and to facilitate the triggering of the large renewable investments in power generation, which we are going to do in the same period of time. As a result, there is no one other than us living in this country who is going to pay for these deployments of its own infrastructure, and that will of course mean that the costs of the central network will increase in the future. The government also believes that the costs of the masked network must be allocated to all those who use it, including the powerful industry. This means that all customer groups will experience an increased tariff in the future as a result of the planned investments and the large expansion that is now taking place in the central network. It's worth mentioning that the industry basically has a discount of about 50 pst, compared to general consumption. Statnet is in the process of developing a price strategy for the period 2014-2018. It makes a great deal of effort to continue today's principle, so that all customer groups will get about the same percentage increase in tariffs. Discounts to industry will also be continued. So a little bit more general comment. In my opinion, it is wrong to see what is happening now with the investments in the central network, detached from the energy policy as a whole. We have put in place the electricity certificates, which will provide very good access to new renewable energy in the years to come. It's a system where the industry doesn't pay, but where you get the upside attached to an increased offer. We have put in place a CO2 compensation scheme, we have strengthened the investment in energy research, we have put in place purchasing consortia, and we have committed to full scale energy conversion and energy efficiency improvement through Enova over the next decade. I believe that the framework conditions for the Norwegian power-intensive industry have improved significantly and that it is right to look at the framework conditions overall, not just through the network tariff.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e995	I thank you for your answer. The investments now to be made in the core network of the country are large. Many companies in this power generation are very concerned that charges are becoming too high. They protest and even say that they are going to use the means they have to produce power in Sweden. It is possible that it is in the same way as with farmers, that you always complain, but that is something that concerns the Council of State – if you start with production in, for example. Sweden, which also has green certificates?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1002	I think we should always be concerned with good framework conditions for our industry. It means the ability to value built on Norwegian competence and Norwegian resources across the country. With regard to the traditional land-based industry, I believe that energy policy significantly improves the framework conditions for Norwegian industry. The Norwegian industry, i.e. the trade unions, presented its economic survey barometer as late as last week. It shows growth in all parts of the Norwegian industry, including the land-based industry. The Norwegian industry was positive in view of initial investment in traditional Norwegian-intensive industries, and some initial investment has already been seen to be in place. We also know that there are several large individual projects working across the country. I think it looks good. It's important, and I'm glad. We also need to use every opportunity to focus on this – because it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1013	Once again, I thank you for your answer. The leader of Norsk Industries, Stein Lier-Hansen, warns that it may be necessary for the powerful industry to fly out – then he thinks in particular of the aluminium industry – because of the high network costs. The majority of network deployment is politically justified by the EU's Renewables Directive, with new cables to the rest of the world and the electrification of the socket. Lier-Hansen therefore proposes that central network development can be financed by means of the tax note. The question to the Council of State is then: Is this an acceptable way to reduce the high network costs expected for this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1022	No, it is not appropriate to consider paying the central network via the tax bill. I think we have a good system to invest in profitable and socially useful infrastructure on the power side, and we're going to develop it further and take care of it. Then it's a big advantage for us all that we're now getting a modern and well-functioning infrastructure on the power side, and I'm looking forward to getting it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1033	‘In an inter-pelling debate which the signatures took place on 2 February 2010, the issue of whether the government would take the initiative in the distribution of a ‘super-network’ for the transmission of electricity in sea cables along the coast and to Europe. The then State Council, Terje Riis-Johansen, replied that on the same day he had signed a declaration, together with nine European countries, on «Offshore grid development in the North Sea». What is Norway’s role in this cooperation, and what is the status and progress in the development of such a network?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1040	Cooperation between the ten countries of the North Seas Countries’ Offshore Grid Initiative has been ongoing for three years and has been useful for Norway. Working groups related to the initiative have looked at possible developments and technological, regulatory, market and planning barriers to the development of offshore wind in the North Sea. At the latest in connection with the extension of cooperation just before Christmas, the working group provided a report on its work. The report is available on our websites. Developing a cost-effective and profitable marine wind network requires cooperation between countries. Although a fully integrated offshore transmission system is well ahead of time, it is important that the different national authorities, regulators and system operators cooperate to ensure that we have a coordinated and efficient development of this type of infrastructure if it is to be built. The ten co-operative countries are at different stages of sea wind. For Norway, the development of sea winds is likely to be well ahead in time. However, we benefit from participating in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1049	I thank you for your answer. It's now quite exactly three years since the interpellation was raised. It was interesting to read what was in the record from that debate; it was said wise things from several. But it's been three years, and it's important to move on. In Norway we see that by 2020 we would have had 30-40 TWh surplus in the power situation. Many of this hope we can of course use in the Norwegian power-intensive industry and develop here, but there is also a possibility for Norway to export some of that power. Then the question to the Council of State: How does the Council of State view exporting some of the power through the type of supernet described here, also in order to create future industrial development in Norway, and to be able to supply renewable energy to Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1060	Here, I think it's important to keep your tongue right in your mouth, as shown by the fact that this is an initiative that starts by weaving together the different networks and the different development projects related to the possible realisation of ocean-based wind power. They are something that, in my opinion, is in time for Norway, simply because the cost positions and the technology now do not seem to be mature. It can of course change once in the future. When it comes to any power surplus, I think we're going to have a balanced relationship with it yet. It's not long since we met in this room to discuss the exact opposite, namely a significant power loss. The fact that it has now counted a lot and has been mild for a few years, does not mean that we can cancel this on a permanent basis. We are now building foreign connections at a pace that no other government has ever done before. Agreements were concluded with both Germany and the United Kingdom last year and, in addition, a link is now being established with Denmark, so there is good governance of the exchange capacity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1069	Thanks for the answer. Governments themselves mentioned technology development, and that technology can be an obstacle to the development of such a supernet. We also see in Norway that cable technology needs to be developed in order to be able to be used to a greater extent than what is being done today. in relation to remedial measures. So the development of better cable technology is important, and it's also important for the Right. What does the Council of States do? And what are the government's thoughts about being a driver to develop a better wiring technology that allows you to have a safe drive and transfer in larger quantities, and that you can bring down the price of power transmission through cables?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1078	I think here too it is a well-functioning market that is the best driver of technology development. Then the country has a role to play in being involved and contributing to technology development and in new renewable energy production methods, including ocean-based wind, etc. The expansion of capacity sharing with the United Kingdom will be a technology-driven project. There has never been such a long subsea cable built before. It'll be exciting to see how the industry handles it. In addition, exciting things happen on a Norwegian base, where you put both cables and stretch the limits of what you can do with direct current. I am absolutely sure that in this area too we will see a positive development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1090	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘For the first time in 100 years, growth in Norwegian forests is falling. This has several reasons, one of them is that annual logging is low, and this again gives more old forest that does not grow. Forest is a major resource, and what will the Council of State contribute by means up to the forestry industry in order, inter alia, to export more?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1099	Norway has significant forest resources. Forest resources are renewable, and forestry is an important district industry with a major economic importance at national, regional and local level. In total, about 25 000 people are employed in the forest and wood industries, and in 2010 the forest industry in Norway had a turnover of 44 billion. kr, corresponding to 5,8 pst. of turnover in Norwegian industry. Forests are important in the development of a green economy in Norway, with great positive climate and energy contributions. Value creation takes place throughout the chain, from forestry activities through transport to the processing of wood into paper, fuel, construction and other products. The value chain starts in the forest and access to works at a competitive price is the basis for the existence of forest industries in Norway. The growth of timber in Norway is more than twice the highest, and there is therefore a basis for increased harvesting. If the yield does not increase, we – as the representative of Bredvold points out – will be able to see that growth will decrease in the future. In order to avoid this, the government will facilitate the strengthening of the forest’s contribution to the creation of value throughout the country and the achievement of important energy, climate and environmental objectives. In the case of increased demand for wood, the government will facilitate increasing the maximum in Norwegian forests in order to use more wood for building materials and energy purposes. Forestry provides renewable raw material to an important mainland industry. It is the highest value of domestic forest processing, and I believe that the best use of Norwegian timber is for value creation in the Norwegian forest industry. At the same time, it is important that export opportunities exist for timber in periods where demand from Norwegian industry is low. Especially in counties like Hedmark, we've seen how important it is to have good export channels. The forest sector and Norwegian forest industry operate in an open market and must be internationally competitive in order to survive. Therefore, a stable and sound economic policy is one of the most important means of ensuring the export potential of the forest sector. Under the red-green government, the financial instruments for forestry have been improved, making it more profitable for forest owners to invest in forest production. In the communication on agriculture and food, a further effort has been made to develop forestry infrastructure to improve access to forest resources as a basis for increasing forest-based value creation. At the same time, environmental and natural diversity must be taken into account. Through the three-based innovation programme, the government continues and strengthens the commitment to the use of wood as structural and building materials to contribute to increased wood use and to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in society. This will allow the production of products and solutions that may be suitable for export. The package of measures for the woodworking industry in the RNB — the revised national budget — provided additional resources to strengthen the availability of forest resources. Among other things, aid granted for the construction and operation of berths in steep terrain. These are measures that facilitate raw material access to Norwegian industry, while allowing the export of timber. The situation in Norwegian forestry is challenging, not least for the paper part of the woodworking industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1120	I thank the Council of State for a good and complementary answer, which says quite a lot about the situation of forestry. It is clear that the forest industry is struggling, in line with some other industries. But there are some things that politicians can do to get the industry better, with better profitability, for example. transport costs. We have limitations on how many tons a truck can carry, and how long a truck can be. In Sweden and Finland, they are allowed to carry a lot more tonnage, and one also has larger cars. This means that the cars will get more timber at a lower cost per cubic. So this is one of many things we have to think about. Another thing could be to make a greater contribution to building forest roads, such as: in the west, where coastal forest use screams for better use of the timber it has. There's a lot of resources there, but it's hard to get them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1127	I totally agree. In the case of forestry, there are two main instruments — transport and taxation are the most important ones. In addition, we have a share of new developments with innovation-driven actions through Innovation Norway and also through three-based innovation programmes and new environmental technologies. As far as transport is concerned, I have a good example from the representative of Bredvolds and my home country: Building a new Åsta bridge. Only that project – a bridge – the Forest Geysers Association could save the forest industry more than 2 million. kr in annual costs because one could have a greater load when running timber through the Østerdalen. In recent years, transport ministers have made several adjustments to weight limits and length limits in the case of timber transport, so we have had an open and practical attitude to it. Then there are always other reasons that speak against, but the basic attitude of the Ministry of Transport in recent years is that it has been opened up, as long as it is sound for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1136	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that the products the forest provides are quality, and the world demands quality. A few years ago, we were a pretty big exporter of timber products to Japan. How this is today, I'm a little bit more uncertain about. At least it is not a problem to sell Norwegian forests and what the forest provides, to the rest of the world when you have quality. And quality we have. The forest is an important workplace. As the Council of State said, it has 25 000 jobs, and it's 44 billion. kr. The 44 billion can be increased, maybe twice. So there's a lot of resources we're talking about, and I think that by relatively simple means we can help increase growth, and not least that we're using growth. It doesn't help us getting an increase if we can't use it for anything positive, creating jobs and ring-effects and export values. This using wood products in construction is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1143	The need for renewable carbon is, in my opinion, going to get bigger, so what we have in three, is a big, big resource. So now we see that it's challenging, not least in parts of the paper industry. Newspaper use in Europe is at full speed downwards by many percent each year. We're seeing a development with a changing market, but there's new products coming in. This leads to a somewhat demanding situation in the provision of a good part of the work – the mass-activity segment – in Norwegian wood processing. In addition, currency means a lot to the forest industry, so that keeping costs down in Norway is also very important. But over time, I have great faith in the forest industry and the need for renewable carbon. We're in a demanding phase right now because a lot of the industry needs to change, and we're quite exposed, among other things. as regards the decrease in newspaper paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1150	Then we go to question 10 and, eventually, to question 11 – two questions that the President can record are practically identical. We first go to question 10, from the Olemic Thommess to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1159	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘More possible lotteries, such as the Postal Code Lottery, are waiting for an operating licence from the Ministry of Culture. A number of non-governmental organisations, not least in the humanitarian field, need to secure their revenues. Many of these are directly involved in, or will have the potential for significant revenues from, these lotteries. What is the state council's position on the development of new lotteries in Norway, and what progress can be expected for the examination of the pending applications?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1168	The goal of the gambling and lottery laws in Norway is primarily to limit problematic gambling behaviour and to counteract criminal activities. The fact that a simultaneous generates income for good purposes is a positive side effect of the model we have chosen in Norway, but not a primary goal. Norwegian Typing has been given the role of main game manager in Norway. This one-right model has kept us to for many years, and it has also had broad political support. The model is well-suited to limit problematic game behavior by channeling the playing activity into defensive games. Norsk Typing is also subject to state control, which I believe is essential to ensure that gambling dependence and crime are counteracted. However, we see that our one-right model is under constant pressure, among other things. from foreign operators who would like to enter the Norwegian market. We must therefore be careful when it comes to the development of new lotteries in Norway, and be sure that we do not water down the model we want to keep. These are considerations that I have with me when I now want to assess what space we can give to new lotteries outside of Norsk Typing's established system. However, I would like to point out that although the main thrust of gambling policy is to limit gambling dependence and crime, it has always been a close link between Norwegian gambling policy and voluntary activity. Social and humanitarian organisations were given their place as recipients of the tipping surplus at the time of the introduction of the automatic monopoly. Organisations for such purposes shall also receive funds in the future. In addition, a number of other measures have been introduced to ensure good conditions for the voluntary sector. The grassroots scheme and the increase in the VAT compensation scheme are examples of this. When Norsk Tipping’s one-right to slot machines was introduced, Stortinget asked that the scheme in the long run be evaluated. As part of this evaluation, the government has decided to order a statement on the distribution of funds from the key allocated to humanitarian and societal organisations. Today, only those organisations that received revenue from slot machines in 2001 receive funds. The funds are allocated according to a model based on the amount of revenue generated by the machines at that time. This is a criterion that is not sustainable in the long term. This criterion excludes, inter alia: organisations that, for reasons of principle, did not wish to have automatic receipts until now in order to receive funds. I would like to find a second criterion for the allocation of these funds, and this process is now well under way. In the evaluation, the government decided that new applications for games outside the key, including the application from the Postal Code Lottery, will be watched until we have completed these questions. I think applications for new games have to be seen in conjunction with the total distribution of surplus money from the key. Therefore, it would not be reasonable to accept applications from some organisations for new games outside the key, until we have got the overall picture of what the distributions will be like in the future. The delivery I have ordered will be in her April 15th this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1189	It is quite right that the Council of State points out that social policy reasons are crucial in relation to gambling. We also had a legal case where Norway had to prove that this was the decisive political justification for the monopoly. I understand that you want to protect, and it will get Right-wing support. However, we have distinguished between games and lotteries. We did that at that point. In other words, lotteries that obviously do not have a gambling addiction page have been assessed, and in one case also accepted, as part of the income base. It surprises me that the Council of State has such a one-sided approach to this problem. I believe that the effort should be made to distinguish between gambling addictive games and lotteries. That is what will in the long run protect the monopoly. What's the Council's reasoning about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1196	The reasoning is that the applications that are in the process of being submitted are in line with the criteria on which they are to be used to allocate the funds allocated to humanitarian organisations. She's in target 15. April. Then I'll get a clearer picture of what the criteria will be like in the future. The criteria will I come back to Stortinget with. When this is done, I will decide on the applications we have. I can't speed up what my decision will be when we get that far, but I don't ignore that one will be able to fulfill the ability to participate with these new lotteries. Today, at national level, it's actually just the pantheon that you have in addition, but I would like to stress that it's of course possible to have lotteries, spells and scrap weights on a smaller scale. I also see that there are humanitarian organisations and voluntary organisations that benefit from all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1203	But then I interpret to your council that there will be a room for lotteries outside Norwegian Typing, and that the criterion for them must of course be that they do not have a gambling addictive effect. I think that's a good and good starting point. The question is then: why in the world have you had to wait so long to work on these questions – that is, to have the 10H-group inside the key? It is difficult to see that there should be an independent argument to leave things in place for so long that you come into a critical zone in terms of keeping at all within the rules of the Administration Act. So the Fair Chance lottery has been waiting since 2007. This goes out dangerously long. I can't help but understand that if you had a regular procedure on this, and baked the cake bigger – as you say in the volunteer – it would also make the discussion about that pot on the key much easier to handle. I can see nothing but that it seems that the government has a temporary agenda that is about wanting to lock as much as possible into Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1212	I am busy following up on the Stortinget asking me to follow up, and the Stortinget asked the Ministry and the government to follow up and evaluate the scheme after five years. Five years have now passed, and so one is also in the process of evaluation and distribution – which we then receive on 15 April. I think it's natural that one sees the other applications in conjunction with this – that it matters to the overall picture. That's what we're dealing with here. Of course, it is important for the government that the one-rights model of Norwegian Typing is signed. We think having a healthy gaming culture is important both in terms of countering gambling addiction and combating crime. At the same time, we see that it has the positive side effect that it can also provide surpluses to humanitarian organisations. That's our starting point from what we're going to do when we take a final position on the applications we have. I ask to be trusted when I say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1219	Then we're going through the problem one more time. We go to question 11, from Trine Skei Grande to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1228	I don't really think that the president characterizes questions as being the same when they're not the same. This is a principle approach, sail if it's the same problem. ‘Recently, several questions have been raised by the Councils concerning the establishment of the Postal Code Lottery in Norway. The organisations behind the lottery, covering important areas such as humanitarian work, the environment and culture, all have in common that they do not receive direct support via Norwegian Typing. Does the Council of State see the fundamental importance that these organisations also have the opportunity to increase their revenues through games and lotteries, and does the Council of State have a strategy for ensuring that these types of organisations can also be properly operated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1237	I refer to the exchange of words I just had with the Olemic Thommess on parts of the question, but it is clear that it can also raise some other problem settings. Again, I would like to stress that ensuring an increase in the income of different organisations is not a key objective of the Norwegian game policy. The aim is to limit problematic gambling behaviour and counteract crime. There was widespread support here at the Stortinget when a single-rights model was adopted in 2003. The scope behind the one-rights model has since also been tested in the justice system, and our gambling policy has been assessed to be in accordance with the EEA Agreement. However, it is also quite clear from EEA law that securing revenue for good purposes is not a matter of concern which may give rise to a single-law model. If we approve many large national games for this purpose outside Norsk Typing's established system, we risk that today's one-right model will no longer be able to defend it in the long term. That's what I think would be very unfortunate with regard to the headview, easy to limit gambling addiction and to counteract crime. If we are forced to let private players for their own profit purposes into the Norwegian gaming market, it could also lead to a total reduction of funds for good purposes. This is why it is necessary to be cautious when approving major nationwide lotteries outside Norsk Typing. As of today, we've only approved a larger national lottery, and that's the Pantelottery. I understand that organisations that do not currently have the opportunity to receive funds from Norwegian Typing's surplus, also need to secure income. Although we wish to be cautious when approving the largest national lotteries, there are many organisations that will be able to secure income by arranging smaller lottery tickets over a shorter period of time. It could be anything from small bazaars to traditional lotteries and scraploads. Voluntary organisations may also ensure good operating conditions in ways other than game policy. Better framework conditions for the voluntary sector are a central objective of this government’s voluntary policy. Government bets on, among others. The VAT compensation scheme for voluntary organisations is one of the largest initiatives in the voluntary sector over the state budget. In addition, we have, among other things: strengthened the Free Fund Scheme on the State Budget, which helps to ensure the framework conditions for the local teams and associations of children’s and youth organisations. Then I would like to stress again that the present applications for the creation of games outside the key have not been rejected by the department. They are only set to wait until the result of the distribution of the organisations' ticking agents is achieved. It was April 15th and will be followed up shortly after that. I therefore do not overlook the fact that it may be appropriate to approve applications for such games, if an assessment of the applications indicates that it will be justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1252	That's exactly what my question is about, because all the things that the Council of State is now setting up are about the government doing through the state budget – all the opportunities you have to increase revenue is about government power over voluntary organisations. What I was really asking about is whether the Council of State has some fundamental objections to the fact that all power in terms of the incomes of volunteering goes through the government. It might have been healthy for NGO Norway and for the voluntary activities in Norway that there had been other sources of income, which volunteering might be able to control the sea, and that the government did not decide on all the crowns that go to volunteering in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1259	We have good contact with all parts of volunteer Norway. I feel that there is a great deal of support for the measures we have spent a lot of money on. This is a great enthusiasm for, among other things, The VAT compensation scheme, that we have invested so massively that we are now up for 1 billion. kr. When it comes to looking at ticks and incomes through lotteries – how to get the volunteer organisations involved – I am, of course, busy with it. It will be followed up in the cold water by the fact that we get the payment, which the Storting has asked for, after one asked us to evaluate the scheme after five years – that is, as soon as I have received the payment on the table. In this case, the output recommendation will have a bearing on how fast this can be followed up. It is important to me that this is followed up in a way that echoes the humanitarian organisations, although, of course, not all expectations can always be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1266	We do not really have a monopoly of games in Norway. There are many small games around Norway – from cacolottery in the 4H club to when I sell sold lots for the Diabetes Federation. We have, as the Council of State has mentioned, also the Pantelotteriet. The lottery proposed here and mentioned in my introduction is a lottery that the Lottery Authority says does not pose a risk of gambling addiction, and then really does not fall within the category of games that Norsk Typing should have monopoly – and they promise over 100 million. kr in the winning premium, which can really trigger those who have problems with gambling addiction. So my question is, why is this lottery being treated so laboriously when all the state councils say that this does not fall into the category: risk of gambling addiction? Why does it take so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1275	The representative Skei Grande is right in saying that the Lottery Authority is clear that there is no risk of gambling addiction associated with the Postal Code lottery, which the lottery representative asks about. However, the new situation is that an evaluation of the criterion to be used for the distribution of the funds allocated to humanitarian organisations is under way. It's valuable to see these things in a context. All applications have therefore been considered pending completion. But of course, I want to come back to these applications when we are in the goal of this work, so that we can see them in a context. Then the representative Skei Grande is right in saying that there are a lot of lottery events around the country, and I've also pointed out in my previous answers in this and in the previous word exchange, but we have at national level only the Pantelotteriet in addition to Norwegian Typing. Launching large, new national games will be a significant change from today's situation and must be carefully assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1282	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-13.ana.ud137e1295	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
