ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e94	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the county of Hordaland: Roald Aga Haug For Telemark County: Odin Adelsten Bohmann For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bord Langsävold Three permit applications are available: On 19 and 20 February, from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permits for the Representatives of the Council of Europe, Mr Vaksdal and Mr Karin S. Woldseth, both to take part in the presidential elections in Armenia as observers of the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe. From the representative Else-May Botten on welfare leave on 19 and 20 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the county of Hordaland: Torkil ÅlandFor the county of More and Romesdal: Eva Vinje AurdalFor the county of Rogaland: Terje Halleland
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e149	Torcil Åmland, Eva Vinje Aurdal and Terje Halleland are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e157	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e171	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e180	Here in Norway, we have good welfare arrangements. Our welfare systems depend on high levels of participation so that we can maintain the Scandinavian welfare model. There is a cross-political consensus that we in this country are in a situation where we need a lot of labour and that we want the whole workforce – both women and men – to have equal opportunities to get into work. It is also agreed that, in order to ensure the welfare systems for future generations, we need incentives to keep the birth rate up. We have therefore established transfer arrangements that redistribute resources to families with children. For small children’s families, therefore, we have a measure of full babysitting. We're about to reach this goal. We have cash support for those who do not want kindergarten while the kids are very small, and we have child welfare. There are good welfare schemes that ensure that young children’s parents have the opportunity to participate in their professional life in line with others. The economic situation in many countries in Europe and the rest of the world has led to increased migration. Our very special economic situation, where we are sitting on the green side of our oil economy, has naturally led to our being an attractive migration target, just as the proposers describe it. It is important for workers from many countries in Europe and the rest of the world, where today there is a great deal of unemployment, that they can come to the country and work, and we really need this workforce. Our value creation is completely dependent on recruiting labour from abroad. It is true that as long as the EEA Agreement regulates the rights of workers for all countries in this area, all workers from the EEA territory are entitled to the same family benefits for their children as we have here in Norway. In fact, a person who works in Norway or on a Norwegian ship is entitled to, for example: child welfare, even if the children are not living in Norway. Proposals ask questions as to whether it should really be the case that workers living with the family in other countries are receiving the same welfare benefits and the same rates as families with children in Norway. It may be timely, all the time when both child welfare and cash support are based on the Norwegian cost level and the ability of families to provide good living conditions for their kids in Norwegian society. Proposals suggest that in many countries within the EEA/EU, the level of costs is significantly lower than in Norway. For example, according to Statistics Central Bureau, one in Poland receives more than twice as much for money as in Norway. They therefore want the Stortinget to ask the government to file a case for purchasing power adjustment of cash support and child benefit in relation to the cost level in the country of residence during the spring session 2013. The Committee agrees that increased labour migration to Norway from other EEA countries leads to more people availing themselves of their right to export, inter alia. child welfare and cash support. I fully agree that one can ask questions about whether it is right, and whether this is sustainable for Norwegian society, with the same rates as apply to Norway. Now the Ministry of Labour is familiar with these issues, and they have launched a review of the rules on membership of the population and the export of social security benefits. The issue of purchasing power adjustment will therefore be further considered in that review. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, therefore considers it appropriate to await the conclusions of that work before final decisions are taken on what should be done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e199	Norway has good welfare arrangements – welfare schemes that I think we all want to maintain in this Chamber, welfare schemes that we can be proud of, but there are welfare schemes that, as we have seen recently, which the case rapporteur was also dealing with, put pressure on Norway in the case of imported labour. Let me also be very clear that the Progress Party recognises the need to import labour – Norway needs more labour in the future. At the same time, the serious concerns raised in the Brochmann Committee must also be addressed. Let me quote the following from the Newspaper on 26 May 2011: ‘Up to 500 million people now have the opportunity to obtain the right to Norwegian welfare goods. One day's work in Norway is enough. Norwegian politicians must move in.’ That's not what the Progress Party says, but senior scientist Knud Røed at the Frischsenteret. I also remember that in August 2011, a media-based debate about adjusting the cost of cash support and child benefit exported to the country of destination took place. That time we were met with arguments from all the other political parties that it was unprofessional, it was impossible, and it was not allowed to do so. It was typical progress party policy – which was easy-to-use solutions. Then I registered with interest that the parliamentary leader and vice-chairman of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, on 20 September one year later referred to one of the welfare committee's proposals at the Programme Conference of the Workers' Party to investigate the purchasing power adjustment of exportable benefits. Parliamentary leader and Vice-Chairman Helga Pedersen pointed out that this means that the benefit is paid according to Norwegian rules, but according to the price level in the country in which they are paid, and that the schemes in question are child welfare and cash support. The evening post on 8 October of that year referred to the 2011 proposals of the Progress Party. The current Minister of Labour, Hanne Bjurstrøm, concluded that there is no alarming trend in social security exports now. She also said that the Progress Party mixes all the cards here, the Eastern Europeans are here to work, and social security exports are a little relevant issue. In other words, a few days after the Workers' Party Vice-Chairman went out and said that this was something to be seen, the then Labour Minister said that this was no problem, while in the same newspaper, the chairman of the Programme Committee, Hadia Tajik, said that he wanted to see how to adjust cash support and child welfare costs. On 30 January this year, the Vice President of the Workers' Party will go out again to warn against social security exports, and he believes that Norwegian cash support and child benefit still need to be adjusted cost-effectively. I feel that the government and, in particular, the largest government party, the Workers' Party, speak with two tongues in this matter. I am not satisfied that you are waiting for an investigation from the Ministry of Labour. For more than one year, it has been said that this question should be addressed. If you want to stop or limit the welfare export from Norway to other countries, if you want, as the Labour Party says rhetorically, to make a cost adjustment to the cash support and child benefit, why not introduce it? Why not introduce it, if that is what you really want? This becomes a little incomprehensible to me. Then I see that you have pushed the EEA law in front of you. It has been said that we are obliged by the EEA Agreement and that we cannot carry out a cost adjustment only overnight. It is, with respect to reporting, error, because according to the Financial Statement of 21 September 2012, EEA expert and former Minister for Public Administration Thomas Nordby claims that it is unproblematic to implement a cost adjustment of these benefits. There is also a reference to an ESA judgment and that a cost adjustment has already been made to pensions between France and the Netherlands. Then I ask the question: What is the government's view that makes it so problematic to implement what is agreed upon? I note that in the rhetoric one agrees with the Progress Party, in practical policy one pushes the problems ahead and makes no concrete proposals on how to prevent social security exports. I think that is disappointing and I hope that the debate will come up with clear, concrete proposals. With that, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e226	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e229	Under the EEA Agreement, workers are entitled to social security benefits for their children residing elsewhere in the EEA territory as if they were residing in Norway. Increased labour migration to Norway from other EEA countries has led to increased use of the right to export, among others. child welfare and cash support. I agree with the proposers and with the Progress Party that it is a challenge related to welfare exports and that it is absolutely necessary to ensure robustness in our welfare systems. It is therefore good that the Ministry of Labour now has a full review of the export rules for all benefits in the public sector, and that the Ministry assesses Norway's action room in EEA legislation to change today's legislation. Before making concrete changes here in the Storting, it is an important basis for basing decisions on. In the Right, we also have an ongoing debate on what we can do about this welfare export, not least based on the Brochmann Committee's proposal. There's a lot of interesting issues to address. Therefore, I am pleased that the Right Programme Committee – although it has not yet been adopted at the national meeting – has proposed making cash support a municipal, statutory benefit. This means that in the same way as you have the right to a nursery place, you must live in a municipality when you are entitled to cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e238	As is known, the EEA Agreement provides for a wide range of regulatory arrangements. In particular, the agreement provides for Norway to be subject to EU social security coordination rules. These rules provide that a person working here is to be covered by Norwegian social security. He pays social security contributions to Norway and receives social security benefits if he fulfils the conditions for the benefit. He has e.g. entitlement to child benefit and cash support for their children as if they were living in Norway. The Brochmann Committee says in its call NOO 2011: 7 that price level adjustment will be difficult to use within the EEA. As you know, the Ministry of Labour has undertaken an overall review of legislation on membership of the population and the export of social security benefits. The question of purchasing power adjustment is also part of this work. It is too early to say how that regulatory review will be followed up. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee wants to await the conclusions of this work before final decisions are taken in this area. I support such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e249	It's going to be line change. The body language indicates that the representative Eriksson intends to request a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e254	As the body language suggests, the will is present to get a line. Governments pointed to the work under way in the government. Can the Council of State give me specific answers when it is expected that work will be presented, and what concrete proposals will be considered in that work? Can the Council of State say anything about that? But the most important thing is, when can we expect that proposal to be put before the Storting? It's been two years since the Brochmann Committee put forward its statement, and we see that the export of welfare benefits, especially cash support and child benefit, is increasing every year. I expect the government too to be interested in moving ahead with this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e261	It is true that the government wants to get ahead of this work. I cannot respond specifically when this is presented. It depends on the complexity of this. However, the representative Eriksson has every opportunity to also ask the question to the Ministry of Labour, who is in charge of this work. But let there be no doubt that the government is concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e266	I allow myself to ask another question. In its contribution to the EEA Agreement, the Council of States pointed out that there were problems with the EEA Agreement. As I also said in my post, former Attorney General Thomas Nordby makes it quite clear that it is not problematic to adjust both child welfare and cash support in relation to current EEA legislation, while there is also an ESA judgment, which I pointed out, which indicates that cost adjustments have also been made within the EU in the past. What makes it so difficult for the government to introduce a cost adjustment, if it is such that the majority of the Storing and not least the government want a cost adjustment? What is the problem of introducing it, getting a case presented and getting it done already in the spring of 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e274	The government cannot rely on one person's assessment. There is disagreement about this question. We record that on the basis of the newspaper statement to which the representative Eriksson refers. Nothing would have been better than that this was a narrow matter, as the representative Eriksson points out. But the department runs a job of looking at this, and there are different views about it. And as I said, the Brochmann committee also thought this was impossible. We look at different variants, different solutions, and then we see what the conclusion is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e279	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e295	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e302	We have a proposal for a representative from the representatives of Greece, Sjøli and Kambe to make changes to the parental leave scheme so that the mother and father quota can be transferred to the other parent. The text of the proposal states: ‘in cases where they themselves do not have the possibility to withdraw the quota’. We have every reason to be proud of the parental leave in Norway. We're at the top of the world about the possibility for both mother and father to be home with the new pod. The parental leave scheme shall ensure the income of parents in the context of birth and adoption. From being a social welfare scheme for mothers during the weeks around birth, we now have a long social benefit period that can be used by both mother and father. When I became a mother, I started working after five months – not because my father then took over the leave period, but because there was no longer a parent to take out. My granddaughter has now had the opportunity to be home with his parents for one year. This has been a desirable development, and much satisfaction with the scheme is reported. The reasons for the parental pension scheme are three-fold: consideration of the child. It allows one of the parents to be at home with the child in the first year of life; the care of the mother and the health of the child. Part of the time is reserved to mother before and shortly after birth, justified on the health of mother and child; gender equality. The scheme ensures that female workers do not have to leave the job because they have children. Furthermore, the scheme contributes to a more equivalency of parental responsibility by the fact that most of the leave period can be shared between parents and that part of the leave period is now reserved for father. The parental pension scheme thus contributes to ensuring that women are linked to the labour market. Ever since the introduction of the parental leave scheme in 1978, fathers have been able to share parental leave with their mother if both have earned rights. However, very few people took advantage of the possibility. Only 2-3 pst. in the early 1990s. With the introduction of a four-week spring quota in 1993, fathers began to take out leave. But the pattern is that most fathers take out exactly what is reserved for them. Mothers continue to use paid parental leave to a much greater extent than their fathers, and unpaid leave is mainly used by mother. If you look at days of parental leave payments in 2011, only 18 pst. of the days of the fathers. In 2012, 49 pst. of the fathers who actually took out parental pennies – i.e. less than half – ten weeks or more. The allowance was known in twelve weeks. Only 7.3 pst. took out more than the spring quota. Right-wing arguments argue that a uniform allocation of leave periods should be made through attitude work, but it is only by the introduction of allowances that father has begun to take leave. Traditionally, it is sad to say that many mothers have viewed this as their leave — and some have probably claimed their wrongful right. On the other hand, we have employers who have only wanted to accept that father should be at home when it becomes clear that part of the leave period is reserved for father. So we've had a father's quota for 20 years. Unfortunately, there has not been much about attitudes, and only attitudes do we think will not work in the way that we want parental leave to work, namely that parents should share the leave period. The proposal states that there are families that do not have the possibility to withdraw the allowance to be able to transfer the allowance. This is a system we had in the past, which resulted in disproportionate administrative burdens. Therefore, the exemption was restricted during the Bondevik II administration. The right is constantly talking about the need for simplification in the case of parental pension schemes. Would the introduction of exemptions contribute to simplifications? The proposal does not state the reasons for which exemptions may be granted. So I am not sure what is in the proposal. I would like to remind you that today, when introduced later this year, the quota for fathers and mothers can be transferred in the event of sickness or injury. Furthermore, the legislation on parental leave is flexible and the parental leave can be removed or postponed until the child reaches the age of three. Studies have shown that the ratio of fathers to men has improved equality between women and men – not because women work more or less, but because the ratio of fathers makes men stay at home with the child from when it is very small, and thereby work less and participate more in the home. Thus, the introduction of the parental quota has resulted in fathers taking more part in child care – for the benefit of father, for the benefit of mother and not least for the benefit of the child. This is SV very pleased with. This is a development that the majority of the Committee wants to continue, and we will therefore not support the proposal to be able to transfer the allowances between parents. We therefore recommend that the Stortinget do not accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e333	Today, Norway has a family policy that makes families stand freer than ever — through a good parental leave scheme, where you can be at home with the child for the first year of life, through full child care coverage, where you have the security of having a good kindergarten with top-class staff, through employment rights that ensure that you can be at home with children when they are ill, and that you can combine it with working with caring for children. In sum, this tells a story that we're going to be proud of, and it hasn't come of itself. In other words, parental leave is a major freedom project. It gives parents the opportunity to stay at home, and it allows the child to have good contact with both mother and father. Before we saw that the families had a significantly lower degree of freedom, which the case-rapporteur had to face, insecurity as to the need to get back to work quickly, insecurity as to whether or not you had a kindergarten at all, and also insecurity as to a wide range of things, including labour rights. Stone by stone has been built on this freedom project. I think that especially the fathers were not very satisfied with the situation as it was, for many felt that there was a lack of contact with their children, that one had to a large extent to be the main caregiver in the family, and that after a break in life one might end up with zero contact with their children. In this way, the introduction of the parental quota is particularly important for the relationship between father and child and for the welfare of both mother, father and child. Now we see that fathers have a lot of contact, and I would say that Norway has the best fathers in the world. I can also say to the President that Norway has the best grandfathers in the world. This has not come about by itself, and it has not come about a mountain. That's the result of politics. The right-hand side has never been the drivers of this work. They have come after, been critical and put on the brakes where we have had to drag them after the hair. Since its introduction, the family quota has had to endure constant attacks, especially from the Right, which have neither supported it nor increased it, and which will now also eliminate it. I see this proposal in the light that it is a cutting-off of the feather quota. We know that in the past there was an access to transferring the allowance from one parent to another. Interestingly, that access was considerably tightened up by the Bondevik II government, arguing that it was both too bureaucratic, and that it was important to protect about the feather quota as such, because it could be diluted with the system that was. I want to use the same rhetoric that the Bondevik II government used when I now want to fight against a hollowing out of the federal quota, which the Right in this proposal is calling for. I rather believe that we're still going to make sure that the entire parental leave is so flexible that both parents can take a good deal out, and that you can plan this on the basis of the family's assumptions. It is a matter of several fathers having rights, that several fathers should have the opportunity for the employer to take a larger share of the allowance, that more fathers have the opportunity to escape. In order for all this to happen, we have to make sure that we still have our own quota reserved for Dad. Then we can't introduce rules that make it a dilution, and at least we can't stand still and see that the right-hand side will remove the whole system that will put the possibility of having contact between father and child significantly back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e346	Norway has the best parental leave in the world, and we should be proud of that. The rapporteur began his speech by saying why we have parental leave and allowances, and that is for the sake of the child, for the sake of mother and for the sake of equality. I thought I'd say what's most important for the Progress Party in terms of parental leave. The most important thing in this case is that the children have contact with their parents — both their parents — at the time of leave. It's not like that today, and the losers are actually the kids. This government, I would say, puts equality in front of the children and the children's contact with their parents. I would like to thank the proposers for raising the issue in this proposal. What's actually the essence of this is that parents can sit around the kitchen table and distribute these weeks. Where father does not have the opportunity to take out all the weeks, perhaps because of the work situation, mother can take over these weeks. The Prime Minister himself has said that there are some things that politicians should not interfere with, and precisely the distribution of parental leave means that the Progress Party does not want politicians to interfere. We have faith in the family, we have faith that father and mother will be able to distribute these weeks between themselves. The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande manages to provoke everyone when he keeps his posts. He talks about Norway having the best family policy today. It's almost the top of recklessness when the Workers' Party is going to take credit for having the world's best grandparents and also the world's best fathers and mothers. I think that is a common policy of several governments and not just of this government. Today's family policy speaks of freedom of choice, but it is only an freedom of choice if parents make the choices that this government wants. A freedom project – yes, I wonder what that freedom project is. It's not a freedom project, it's a project that forces a few weeks on a family that may not be able to use them, and it makes the children lose when mother can't take over the weeks to father. So the representative, Stokkan-Grande, talks about a break in life and how important it is for Dad to take part in the growth of children, especially in the first year. I fully agree with the representative. I have to say I am surprised that the representative has done nothing more about the rights of fathers in the event of a breakup. For this government, it seems very important that dad is part of the children's growth in the first year if it's in a happy life, but once there's a break in that community, both the representative Stokkan-Grande and I know that it's the father who's going to lose. The party of progress had hoped that the government had given fathers independent earnings rights, and also given fathers greater power in the event of a breakup. Instead, the government has brought several new weeks to Dad in a gender equality perspective, and it believes the Progress Party is the wrong direction to go. We want to release the family, and hope that after the fall we will be able to have freedom of choice, so that the families themselves will distribute these weeks between mother and father. It will be the best for the family, but not least it will also be the best for the children. Then I'd like to address the proposal that the minority has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e367	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e370	For the right, it is important that we in Norway can offer parents a red parental leave scheme that allows them to combine childcare with professional activity. But for the right, the parental leave is primarily about giving good and safe care to the child in its first year of life. We are concerned that the focus on the child has completely lost space when we talk about the parental leave. That is why the Right has come up with this proposal we are discussing here today. It's just related to the child's concern. We see that we've got a parental leave scheme that, from 1 July, gives mother a 14-week maternity allowance and father a 14-week parental allowance. If mother or father does not have the opportunity to take out all these 14 weeks, these weeks are taken away from the child and the family. The right has presented this proposal because we believe this is wrong. It's wrong to punish the child and the family if you don't do things according to the A4 solutions that politicians require your families to live up to. We believe it is wrong when the child suffers if it does not have parents who are able to adjust to the pattern we want them to conform to. Therefore, we suggest that in those cases where it is not possible to take out the entire earmarked quota, we ask the government to consider whether it is possible to apply for the transfer of the weeks that you do not have the opportunity to take out yourself, to your wife, to your husband or to your partner. We do that because parental leave is a scheme for young people, it is not primarily a system to ensure full equality between men and women. This is a scheme that exists for the child, and then we think that the development that has now taken place under the red-green government is wrong – the detailed management of the leave that makes not all parents things to live up to this and thus lose. On the right, requests are constantly getting away from suspicious parents who say, "Is it true that we're going to lose eight or ten weeks at home with our child because we're not able to live up to the A4 template that the red-greens have now created around the families? Is it true that we have to send our child to kindergarten when it's only eight or nine months old, against our will, because we don't manage to adapt to the pattern and because father in the family is the one who has the main income, runs a small business and loses the entire customer portfolio to his competitor's right across the street if he stays home for almost four months? The right-hand side says that this is not right. It is consideration for the child to go ahead. That is the concern for the safety of the small family and the care they can provide for the young in the first year that is absolutely vital. That's why I'm a little scared when the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande and the Workers' Party in this pulpit claim that the parental leave is a major freedom project. I recommend Stokkan-Grande to read today's VG – I don't think he has. In a poll that VG and InFact conducted last night, 66 pst claim. by the population that they do not want a quota of fathers. 66 pst. by the people want more freedom of choice, they want more confidence from the politicians to decide on their own lives, their own children and their own families. They do not want more detail management and more regulation. They want more freedom. That's why the right is concerned that we shouldn't lose focus on the kids. We must not lose focus on caring for them. We politicians must have confidence that people themselves are best able to decide their lives, how a good family life should be and how care should be for the very least. And then we have to have confidence that today's fathers choose to be at home with their children combined with their professional career.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e383	We have parental leave for the kids. There are many different reasons that are used to set up those schemes one way or another, and that shows the many debates we've had on this in the Chamber. That's why I think it's important to stick to the starting point: the parental leave is primarily for the kids. I understand the proposal we now have to deal with as, in effect, the abolition of the family quota. Although it's formulated in a slightly different way, it's going to be the reality. The Christian People's Party has a clear and simple starting point: we need the father's quota. It's still the way in Norwegian working today that if you're a woman and you come to your boss and tell him that now we're going to have a baby, that you're pregnant, then the boss immediately realizes that you need to have a leave; now you need to be free for a longer period. If a man comes and says now we're going to have another one, then the boss doesn't necessarily think the same thing. Then the manager might think that I need you to work, make this leave as much as possible, put it a little bit into the vacation and make it as simple as possible, and come back as soon as possible. Therefore, removing the feather quota will be a naive step back in family policy for several years. For the feather quota is just the means that many men and fathers can do exactly what they want to do. You can go to your boss and say, "Now I want a period off because we've got a kid, and I want to spend time with that kid in the first year." That is why today’s father’s quota is a men’s trump card to their employers – and often to mother too – that guarantees freedom of choice for families. Research shows that it is good that both parents spend time with the kids and share care with them from the very beginning. But that doesn't mean that this effect increases and increases the longer we do the paper issue. It is not the case that the positive impact on living and on the relationship between father and child increases proportionally with the number of weeks prescribed by law in the parental leave scheme. That's why it's important that when we put this trump card in the fathers' hands and give them the opportunity to take out this father's quota, we don't have to fall for the temptation to sit here in the Norwegian magnificence and detailed rule of how all families should put up their everyday lives in the thousands of homes around the country. And that's the trap in which the red-greens have gone, when they've built out those arrangements so far that there are 14 weeks in each of the parents, and the commons have gradually become smaller. Because then some situations arise that make it difficult for some parents as to what they really want, what solutions they would have found best. So what was the trump card, it could be a black cup for a lot of families. And I'm absolutely sure that popular support for the feather quota is just anchored in that we're using that tool and giving it the means to the fathers as a trump card without falling for the temptation to control the families in detail, creating irritation and resistance to the feather quota. The line of the Christian People's Party is therefore to say no to the right-hand side's attempt to undermine this important reform as the spring quota is. We want to keep the father's quota as a trump card. We also distance ourselves from the attempts of the left-hand side to control the families more and more by detailing how to share the parental leave. Then the trump card becomes a blackdecker. So the solution lies in the common sense. The solution is in the centre – in the golden middle. Let the fathers retain their birth quota without detailed control of the parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e396	As social liberals, I am very much for people's freedom of choice, and it's been the Left for 130 years. But the times you have to fight for freedom of choice, you don't have to go around thinking that freedom of choice is something that happens at the time you leave to others to make decisions. You also have to give people the opportunity to have the real freedom of choice. Therefore, the Left was the first batch to introduce quotaing into its own batch. And I would encourage everyone to go into Storting's web pages and look at developments in female growth representatives, from the time Left introduced sex quota, and many other parties came after, in relation to how long women have actually had voting rights. That seems to me to be a good picture of freedom. We've had 100-year voting rights for women. Women have had the opportunity to participate and the freedom to choose for 100 years. But it was only when we were willing to also put power behind the real freedom and were willing to also use the means to achieve that freedom that we actually got the real freedom of choice. It's always been like that, and the Left has always been in the front when it comes to giving freedom to real choices. That's the way we are when it comes to parents' right to take out the parental leave. Our model is that we want a third that dad has a third, mom has a third, and together they have a third that they can evaluate. I think that would have been a good solution. That gives both mother and father the power to say in the workplace that I actually have to have this. Because that's what this is about. Since we got parental leave – or mother's leave that's probably hot at first – this has been a bit of a mother's leave. And it's not always Father has felt that he has any right to take his share of that leave. Here, in fact, the right of fathers to be with their own children and their freedom of choice to take it out as they wish, to the employer, but – we also have to admit – sometimes also to mothers who really want to have that time off. So I think a third would have been the right signal to give from this room -- that this is something we think the family should find the right tip of, but that everyone should take their share. So it's actually like there's great opportunities to transfer dad's leave to mom in special situations. I have very good friends. For example, if father is in the midst of the start-up of a new business, taking out the paperwork would not be possible – because you are just in the start-up of a small business. There has been no problem in transferring father’s leave to mother – based on the particular work situation. Of course, we're going to have that freedom because we're all different. But then you should have a good reason formally presented, and I believe that there is a great deal of room for action today. Otherwise, of course, the leave is for the child. But I think that the child has a good time getting to know both his or her mother and his or her father, and that it is actually best for the child to have that equality also with the child. I think there are many children – especially many small boys – who have had a very good time having a father's role model, a father who has a good time, and who has spent a lot of time being the father's role model, also for them. Especially when they're going into a nursery, which is very marked by female employees, it's nice to have a male role model that also has time to spend on them in growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e407	I was very tempted to take the word to a small, short post. VG writes that 66 pst. by the Norwegian people do not want a father's quota. It might be a good idea to ask the families of young children about it, I think. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has a more nuanced and much more modern vision than the Right in terms of the father's quota. I want to move forward something that the Right seems to forget, because it's not many years since the parental leave was a mother's perm, and it was much shorter than today, as was said here before. Many today seem to believe that yes, but mothers have one year’s leave – that’s not the case, it’s a parental leave scheme. Mothers had the opportunity for two alternatives before, and it's not so terrible a long time ago -- my kids are getting big, and there were very bad arrangements when I got kids -- it was staying home for a long time without pay, or using a day mother. It was very often a social pressure to be at home, at least until the kids started school. The father was pressured socially — and perhaps by necessity — to work to get the ends to meet. Dads worked a lot and didn't get the same way moms knew about their kid. So right is talking about the child's best. I believe that it is best for the child to get a chance and get to know his or her father in a good way. I know, and it's not hard to guess either, that today Dad meets a social pressure from the employer not to take leave. I think it is necessary to have a father's quota for such attitudes – not only among young children's parents, but also in the workplace – that it is natural for father to take leave and, for his own part, to have the opportunity to become acquainted with his child. Not least for the child's part, the child is allowed to become acquainted with his father in a different way than what was common maybe just a couple of decades ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e418	I would like to take this discussion over and over again, because I'm very sure that we have the very best arguments. I can't believe that freedom of choice should be the same as facilitating the right of the strongest. When did it happen? When was that freedom of choice? I think you have to be a desktop theorist to go into this discussion without seeing parents – women and men – face different types of pressures that have to do with their gender role patterns, which have to do with their position in the labour market, and which have to do with their position in the family. That's what the choices we're making are. It's quite right, as has been said from this pulpit by several, and I'm very glad that the representative Hope from the Christian People's Party has also said, that this is about seeing fathers get a completely different opportunity to get to know their children and avoid being pressured from, for example. an employer, or from a mother – who was also in the presence of the representative Trine Skei Grande – who wants this leave separately. It's also reasonable, when we spend billions of dollars on a plan like this, that we set up some assumptions and some expectations at the other end. Then it can be heard as if this is almost some sort of plight for Norwegian parents, that Norway is a terrible country that forces parents to be at home with their children, forcing fathers to be at home with their children. It's not consistent with reality. On the contrary, the latest child-care survey from the Statistical Centre also shows that a small minority of people disappearing want to eliminate the birth rate. I trust the Statistical Central Bureau more than I trust the VG's investigation. It's also important that it targets the infants' parents. They see how good it is that they do not argue between themselves every week, or argue with their employer. It's a freedom project, just as the representative Stokkan-Grande has said. It's just asking his father. I have asked my own father and other fathers who are in that generation fathers. They had no rights, they had no rights. My mother had only three months, just as the representative Kflufte Andresen also had – three months of maternity leave. And it was Mother's leave, it was reasonable that it should be. And then, gradually because of women’s participation in government and growth, good leave arrangements have been pushed forward, where – from 1993 onwards – there was a need to reserve something for fathers. Then we can always discuss how much we should reserve for fathers, but that it must be reserved for fathers, we should agree on, unless we think it is entirely right that many more fathers should be swept out of such an important arrangement for the children, for the fathers' seas and for the mothers, because the parental leave also has a strong influence on the position of women in the labour market. It is quite right, as has been said, that employers make assessments. I think it was the representative of Håbreek who said it. They make an assessment that is different in terms of women and men. If women are often thought to have children, she'll be gone, and then it's looting and hefty, while you don't think the same thing about men. It's starting to turn around, and it makes us get a more family-friendly working life. It's important family policy, it's good family policy, it's good child policy too, it's not that you're either a family man or you're a worker who has a full focus on careers. I'm very sure we have good arguments on this issue. We also know that discrimination in the workplace is a very serious problem for pregnant women. We know that a distribution of the parental leave rate in the parental leave scheme is important for equal pay. I think the representative of Hofstad Helleland tops it all when she said that the focus on the children has completely lost space. It doesn't make any sense. We have extended the parental leave scheme by 6 weeks: we have 49 weeks of full pay in Norway – there is no other country that has it – we have 59 weeks of 80 pst. wages and salaries. Fathers – or mothers – have the opportunity, if they need it, to set up a flexible scheme. It's not like this is a rigid system – on the contrary. It was, as was said, the Bondevik II government that changed some of the flexibility that lay in the system before, because there was too much bureaucracy in Nav. I thought the Right was against bureaucracy, but no, now you have to have it. But the system is still very flexible, and we still have to do that in the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e438	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e441	I support what the Council of State says, that we have fantastic parental leave in Norway. We're going to be happy for that, and that's something that comes from all the parties. I'll be a little personal. When state councillor Inga Marte Thorkildsen says that she has asked her father, I would say that 23 years ago, when I got my firstborn, I took parental leave, but my husband, who was completely at the start of a private company, had zero opportunities to withdraw leave. I was so lucky that I got to be home with my children. My child was at home with one of the parents, had that security, and we didn't use the day-mother or kindergarten, because I had the opportunity to be home. Governments talk like all public sector jobs. My question is: does the Council not see the unfairness that it affects the children when you are a private trader, e.g. in individual undertakings, does not have the possibility to transfer their weeks to mother?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e450	It is certainly true that there are examples of people who have problems with the system we have – it is difficult to take into account all cases. However, it is striking that there are never women who have problems taking out parental leave — always men. Then you can ask yourself whether there are different attitudes or approaches to this depending on whether you are a woman or a man. I have friends who are in the private business, they are even self-employed, who have managed to take out their parental leave despite the fact that they run their own business. That's why I have to say I'm baffling about it. When it's also that you can take the leave in terms of one day a week for 70 weeks, or postpone until the child reaches three years, there's good flexibility in this system, and we're making it even more flexible. We have a proposal for consultation that I think is well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e455	I hear the council is surprised that there are never any mothers who will take out less leave. I think it might have something to do with mothers going through a long pregnancy, not everyone has the same simple pregnancies and births. There's actually a little difference between man and woman also when it comes to having children, now it's said. I still think we should respect that. Does the Council see that there is a poor policy on equal opportunities that in many families mother has to go home on unpaid leave because it is father who still has the main income in the family? I don't know if the state council is getting a lot of calls -- they might not, and that's a reason. On the right, many contacts come from those families where the father has the main income, serves the loans, and can't take 14 weeks. Mother goes home on unpaid leave, loses pension points and ties to work. Is that a good equality policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e460	We in the red-green government are very busy fighting part-time, especially so-called unwanted part-time, sailing if you can always ask yourself what it is. That is why we are in favour of making provision for ever better arrangements, which allow for the combination of family life and participation in the labour market. This is the case, for example. The discussion about kindergartens is very important, and not least that we have good pedagogical density and a sufficient number of adults to care for the one-year-olds in kindergarten, and do not do what Right wants, namely to make it easier for many more single-year-olds to enter kindergarten without having enough adults to care for them. Then I think we can see that more women will choose to go down part-time to take care of their kids' sails. So I absolutely believe that it's right that there are examples of families who think this is difficult when fathers earn more, but that's also how you have to take into account that you have to have children. There are also some families that have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e465	The council is a little surprised that it's just the mother it's talking about in these cases here. The parental leave we have today is also justified in the right to parent benefits, and often that is what is crucial. After all, there's a lot of economics in such cases as well. But the Advance Party has thought of the freedom of choice, whether it is Mother who takes on a few weeks from her father or Father who takes on a few weeks from her mother – each family must find the best arrangement for itself. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State do something about Dad's right to benefit, so that his father has an independent right to benefit? I think that if we had been given a self-employment right, there would also have been several fathers at home, without any quota that would have calculated this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e470	I assume that the representative Horne means the right of withdrawal. The right of use is not a problem, it is the right of withdrawal that is a problem. That discussion I am willing to take. It costs quite a lot of money, that is one thing, so I expect the Advance Party to present its own budget proposals for that kind of proposal. I have not registered that for now, nor from the Right, who has kept the tab at the highest level for this, and it is perhaps the largest stomach bottle. Then we also have to discuss what we do if both parents are going to be home on the same level, because it's because the women are at home that the men don't get this exit right. Then you can ask yourself if it will be a very short time for the children to be home with their parents. So what do you do when you extend it? There is a discussion you could take, given the question I just received from the representative of Hofstad Helleland. In addition, it is also important to address the issue of women’s position on the labour market if they do not have an activity obligation. I'm open to this discussion, but I'm just mentioning it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e479	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e484	I take the floor at the end here really just to try to get some optimism into the debate, because when you hear the right side, it sounds like we live in a country where people are under pressure, where people get pushed down their heads, and where people have to be home with their children close to being against their will. I demand some ambitions for the Norwegian family from the right, and there are no ambitions for Norwegian fathers. If that's what the right side claims, that this is going to be rigid, as a coercion for Norwegian families and fathers, it's strange that every year we increase the paperwork, it's going to be the birth tree in the hospitals in Norway after 1 July. You'd think they had to have a baby before 1 July, so they didn't have to have the two extra weeks of Dad's time. But the fasitator is that this is something Norwegian fathers want. They want to be home with their children. They don't feel like they're coerced. On the contrary, this is a good thing for children and for fathers. Then I react to what the Council of State also had to do with the change of line, that it is often so difficult when fathers are going to be at home – maybe they won't, maybe it's hard because they have such important work. Of course, for many, there are practical challenges, and that is why it is important that we have a flexible system and make it more flexible. But no one talks like that when mother is going to be home. This is a responsibility that mothers have taken for all generations, but when dad gets home, it gets so bad and hard. I'm responding to that, because I think fathers are as good caregivers as mothers, and fathers must have the opportunity to get away with it. Not long ago there was a business manager in South Africa who said that he appreciated fathers who did not use the father's quota. That statement really says everything about why we have to have our own father's time, and why we shouldn't water down that system. For what signal is it to Norwegian fathers who assess whether they should be at home, if the boss says I don't appreciate you being home, I want you to work? In addition, Mother might say that she wants the entire leave period. Yeah, that's the result of more people staying home if you don't have your own father's time. I think much of the problem here turns out that father thinks he's indispensable at work, and mother thinks she's indispensable at home. Luckily, we see that the landscape is changing radically, as more men are at home, taking responsibility, seeing the joy of it and thereby getting better contact with their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e495	There are some things that need to be solved here. Firstly, the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande does not understand why it is the birth tree from 1 July. Well, that's because the red-green government hasn't fulfilled the right to full kindergarten for those who were born after 1 September. That's why people have to hurry to give birth in the summer, because they don't get kindergarten even if the kid is one year old and the Workers' Party has promised them kindergarten. So that's why. So Stokkan-Grande talks about that right will remove the feather quota. Right will remove all earmarked allowances. We want to remove the mother's quota, we want to remove the father's quota, because these earmarked quotas are what makes the detail management difficult for a lot of people. Right is very happy that so many fathers want to participate in the growth of their children in the first year and be so active in caring for their children. That's why we also have confidence that today's fathers do it without having to have a father's quota. We have faith in today's fathers. I'm glad that the Right has an optimistic belief in today's men, that we believe that they themselves see the joy and benefit of this and the importance it has for the father-child relationship to be at home on leave. That's why I get a little scared when I hear the red-green stand here and talk about the poor father, the poor father who has to go to the employer and ask for time with the child and ask for leave – it's not that easy for that poor father. And when he comes home to the wife, it's not easy for that poor father to be allowed to be at home, because the wife says she's going to take everything out. It is a little worrying to hear that Special Representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has so little faith in today's fathers. What have women done for many, many decades? Well, they've gone to their boss and demanded to be able to combine childhood life with professional life. But you shouldn't be able to demand that from today's fathers. They need a father's allowance to be at home with their children. I think that's completely wrong. I think we should give more freedom to the family, we need to have confidence that families are able to find the best solutions for their children, and we need to have confidence that today's fathers themselves see the value of being at home with their children and don't need a quota to be at home. This debate, as it has been disfigured – talking about father's rights and equality – proves that for the red-greens, the parental leave is not about the children. That's why the children are absent in this debate, and that's very bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e510	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e524	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e533	‘For children, home shall be the safest place on earth. In the home, the foundations are added to a small human being. Too many things happen the opposite...’ This is the beginning of the exhibition on violence against children that was opened today down in the tunnel. There are words and an exhibition that arrest us, and that will and must arrest us. Families are made up of people, and people are different. It's not easy to be human either. The problems many parents are struggling with, go more or less out on the kids, not always in the form of violence, as this exhibition shows, but in other ways. But it is possible for most people to get help. This arena is the most important task of family protection. The Children's Ombudsman says this: "Good family protection is the best preventive child protection." We are fully behind this in the Centre Party. Since the first publication of children’s statistics in 1989, the proportion of young people living with both parents has declined from 83 to 75 pst. The proportion of young people living with both parents gradually decreases with age, from under 90 pst. for them under one year to slightly over 60 pst. among 17-year-olds. Every year, about 20,000 Norwegian babies experience a disintegration of their parents. There is little doubt that many children experience such a situation as very dramatic. Most divorce children are doing well, but we also know that children who have experienced a break-up are more at risk of having problems than other children. In fact, although many are doing well, the number of divorces is the factor most likely to affect the number of children in need of follow-up from child protection. We also know that several children live in very conflicted families. Therefore, we need to focus more on family success together. Reducing the number of broken lives means that fewer will come into situations that in the long term lead to problems. It has to be more natural to seek help when you get problems. A good measure is the ‘Good living’ course organised by the municipalities for newly-baked parents. Such a general course offer should be made even more known, we are absolutely sure that it will lower the threshold to seek help. Many people do not know that family protection offices and other community measures can help solve family problems. The centre party believes that a stronger commitment to family protection will result in fewer life breaks and lead to more children getting better growth. The issue we are debating here today shows that there is a broad political consensus that we need strong and competent family protection that can offer families who have such needs. I agree with the proposers that it is important to strengthen cooperation between family protection services and bodies such as child protection, healthcare and courts. The Raundalen Committee proposed in NOU 2012: 5 to strengthen cooperation between family protection and child protection, for the benefit of children and families in need of follow-up and assistance. I would also like to stress that family protection is a service where the ideals and the public, i.e. the two-tracked family protection, can together create an effective and competent service spread throughout the country. It provides new learning and insight, which benefits both the ideal and the public family protection, and thus the two-tracked family protection becomes a resource that provides synergies. The Central Party believes that we need to spend more resources on prevention, parental guidance and cohabiting measures to reverse the development of more and more dissolved families. Family protection is a prevention service that helps struggling families before the situation becomes dramatic. The Central Party believes that we must bet on family protection in parallel with the Child Protection Reform. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State now makes it clear that the core tasks of family protection are very important. She stresses in a letter to the Committee that she is committed to a reinforced commitment to family protection in the future, because this will be important for the service to be a central element of a comprehensive family policy. It shows that the government has a proper and important focus on family protection. The centre party is very pleased with the job done in family protection, and we are dedicated to developing two-track family protection, so that family protection offices around the country can continue this very important job for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e570	The rapporteur of the matter, Olov Grøtting, made a very good contribution, which represents the views of all three government parties on family protection. However, I would just like to add some additional comments, and I would like to conclude that in Norway we have a very good family protection that we can be proud of. It's a low threshold offer for families in crisis, and it's free. Actually, I think we should be proud of that. What's also very nice is that it's very competent people who work around the 54 family protection offices that are spread across the country. In recent years, family protection has had more and more cases that are extremely demanding. We know that there are more and more cases that end up before the courts, and there are many cases with a very high level of conflict. For this reason, in recent years, there has been a strong focus from the red-green government on the need for family protection to give priority to issues where there is a high level of conflict. It has been ensured that the staff of the family protection offices have gained additional competence on precisely these types of matters, that a number of family protection offices have set up their own teams working with them, that children living under such high-conflict conditions are helped, and that conversation groups are provided not least for these children. The government has also sent a separate instruction to Bufdir to prioritize precisely the high-conflict cases in which children are involved. Another point that I also want to mention is this mandatory mediation. Both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want us to go back to the old order of three hours of compulsory mediation. I'm very unsure whether that's a proper priority. Today you have one hour of compulsory mediation for all the couples who leave each other and who have children. I'm not sure if it's right to expand this to three hours for every pair. We know that most couples are able to arrange the association agreements very well, and that one hour in the family protection office is useful and important for everyone to make sure that everything is in place with regard to the association agreements, and that they have been solved in a good and satisfactory way. That at the same time we should impose all of these couples – who are adults, and who will do the best for their children – three hours of mandatory mediation, I am very uncertain about. I think it's much more important that we spend the extra hours and resources we have, on those couples who have the highest level of conflict, and who struggle most to get cooperation on the kids after the breakup. That's why I think we need to discuss and find methods that ensure that it's not just one hour of mandatory mediation, but that we're more able to oblige them to carry out a mediation process. Today you can get up to seven hours in these cases. Maybe you should have discussed whether they should have even more hours, because the most important thing is that you get into a situation where these kids don't live this year with two parents who don't talk together and who have a high level of conflict. Therefore, it is very important that we find methods and prioritise resources towards just these groups. The two things I have now mentioned illustrate the challenges we face in the field of family protection in the years to come. We have a very good basis for solving a lot of life conflicts, but they also show that we can solve even more if we find good methods and use our resources in a good way. I agree with Mr Groetting that in the years to come family protection should be given a good priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e581	The Advance Party will also support the rapporteur's statement on family protection. Family protection is very important. We, everyone in this room, have probably grown up with both Disney movies and romantic American movies, which end up living happily for the rest of their lives. But the reality is that not all couples are able to live happily together, and there are very many children who suffer from the problems of their parents – who eventually end up in a breakup. Here the family protection offices come in and do an excellent job. The prevention work on children and families is very important, and with the social development we see today, I don't think we should underestimate prevention – it's very important. Over the last few weeks, we have seen and heard about prevention through health centres, and how important it is for municipalities to be set up in health centres and health sisters. It has a crucial importance for the children who get that help. It's the health wards that see the families first. But then come the family protection offices, which also see these families. In terms of their mediation role, highly competent people can help these families. Some families choose to go to the family protection office to prevent, and some have to go there when they can't do this. Getting it help at the family protection office is important. The Progress Party has not supported the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party to have three compulsory mediation hours. It's not because we don't see that it might be necessary for some families, but we haven't taken a decision on that. What has been important for the Progress Party is to look at the 50/50 pst. division after a break in life. We believe that this can help to reduce the conflict that exists between some couples, and we believe that the automatic 50/50 is a contributing cause. In fact, it is very worrying that some child distribution cases now go to the courts, and that the level of conflict in the courts has increased. When there are some parents who are unable to solve this at the family protection offices, the conflicts go to the courts. As we see it, there should have been a strengthening of the family protection offices, which might have caused some of the parents to put the children in the front seat – not just themselves. We know that the family protection offices have had more and more jobs lately. We also see that in the case of child protection, which is probably coming in the near future, family protection offices may have a strengthened role to play. Among other things – as the Raundalen Committee said – it should be considered whether they should be responsible for the families who may lose their children as well. But that's another thing. The cooperation between child protection, kindergartens, schools, health centres and family protection offices seems to me to be underestimated as a preventive tool. I've had meetings with the Church's Social Service, which runs the Family Protection Office, and I've seen the important work they do in having information meetings with kindergartens and schools, and that can contribute to a prevention, which is for the benefit of the children. Family protection offices also see that they get a much tougher job in the future. We see that when a lot of families come to the family protection offices, they've been in other places, for example. as a result of drug problems. This is why cooperation across departments is very important. The party wants a two-track family protection. We want us to be able to have both ideals and private, in cooperation with the state. I think it is important and a strength we have shown here in Norway that we have had two-track family protection. We've been worried that the Church's social service has not had the same conditions as the state, and we've been worried about developments there. That is why the Progress Party in its budgets has strengthened the Church's Social Service's family protection office. We see the important work that they do, and that is not just a supplement to the state. They have to be equal, but they also have to have equal working conditions. With that, I would like to mention the proposal on which the Progress Party is included in the vote - proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e604	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e607	We in this room distribute a cake every year. This year's cake is 1065 billion. kr. If we take a little look at how we spend 1065 billion. The crowns, we see quickly that large parts of the cake go for repair. This year we have decided to spend 112 billion. SEK for specialist health services, SEK 13 billion. The police, $6 billion. DKK on child protection, 350 billion. kr for social security costs, where there is also a significant share of repair costs. Today, the address newspaper says that 300,000 Northmen go to antidepressants. What role does family policy play in the welfare state and society? How far away can the recognition that children are unable to cope with public services alone — whether it be Nav, child protection, health centres, pedagogical-psychological services or other things? The welfare state can do a lot, but it can never be a good mother. The municipality can do a lot, but it can never be a good dad. It starts in the family, and it is the parents and the family that provide the basis for safety, care and quality of life. Therefore, it is a paradox that in the distribution of this large cake, where most of it is about repair, the importance of the family disappears and the concept of ‘family policy’ disappears altogether. Early intervention we are concerned about. It's important, we all agree on that. But family protection is almost absent. Annually, in excess of 10,000 Norwegian children, parents experience disintegration. It is fine, as the representative Gjul pointed out, that family protection should be given priority to those matters where there is a high level of conflict. But it's actually an opportunity, if you want to, to use these services to prevent some of these breaches, and that these conflicts occur at all. The family protection and the competent staff of the Norwegian family protection service on which it is referred actually want to use large parts of the resources, if they are given the opportunity, is to prevent these breaches. Everyone can imagine what we're saving financially and from suffering by preventing a break in life. So it's like this in life that sometimes a break is necessary and for the best. At that time, family protection has a fantastic potential to ensure that this is good for all parties, and that the kids are doing the best they can through the process. Family protection also has a major role to play in helping and supporting families after a breakup. It surprises me that after four years in the family and culture committee of Stortinget, I almost enjoy hearing a red-green politician, and then I talk about the Workers' Party and SV, talking about family protection without first having any questions about it from anyone else. I am amazed at the total lack of interest in this topic. On the other hand, the Children's Ombudsman has sent a letter to the Committee asking us to support a stepping up of family protection. For the last four years, I have received many questions from representatives and people working in family protection: why is there no interest? Why is there no red-green interest in what we do? Why don't we show up in the state budgets? Why haven't we gotten a share of the 300 billion? Do you have any money that has been spent on government budgets in the last eight years? I'm going to be guilty. I have to admit that. I can refer to our own budgetary options, but I have problems giving a good answer to that question. I have tried with a theory that many politicians on the left have in a way their political heritage from the gender equality struggle of the 1970s, and that the right to legitimize the violation of life was an important part of that struggle, understandably enough. Then those attitudes hang again, which makes you skeptical when you're about to start preventing breakups and talking about family protection. I don't know if that's right, but it's a theory. I don't know, but I hope we get red-green answers as to why there's no interest. I am pleased that it is now said that we should strengthen family protection and take care of the two-track family protection, but I have to say that after eight years I am a little questioning about what we can really expect. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e635	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred. The next speaker is the representative of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, the second councillor of Inga Marte Thorkildsen. Councillor Thorkildsen is on his way up to the pulpit. She was previously advertised as the next speaker after the representative Håbreck.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e640	It is good that the Council of State is starting to prepare for an opposition situation here in Stortinget! With regard to the proposal of the Christian People's Party that we have to deal with, I will first begin by praising the Christian People's Party to work so systematically on raising family protection and putting it on the agenda. I think it's a very good proposal the Christian People's Party has submitted for consideration, and I also think it was a very good post the previous representative made. In 2011, Bufdir analysed and evaluated the costs of family protection based on geography and population density. They concluded with a continuation of today's distribution key. However, the national audit noted that family protection does not meet the objective of offering a geographically equivalent service provision. In addition, the National Audit Office also mentioned the lack of follow-up of competences and appropriations to external brokers and poor follow-up of guidance for cooperation with the courts. The dimensioning of family protection is largely historically conditional. Local external brokers have been a major concern since the state took over family protection in 2004. Population growth, needs analysis, changing forms of work and efficiency that can release resources are of little importance. The right is concerned with the important prevention function of family protection offices. That is why we are very pleased with the proposal of the Christian People's Party to strengthen family protection in the years to come. In order to ensure both the statutory and the prevention work, we in the Right believe that there is a need for a significant strengthening of family protection in order to address the challenges they face. Right will reintroduce three mandatory mediation hours, towards today's one hour, and we will develop cooperation between family protection, child protection, health centres, mental health services, etc. The family is too many the most important arena of belonging and community. The family creates a safe framework for young people's growth. Then there are quite a number of children – as has been said from the pulpit earlier today – who feel that their parents are breaking up. Contributing and helping in such difficult situations is important. Therefore, the Right is concerned that family protection needs to be strengthened in the future. I heard that the representative, Håbrek, was very concerned about the situation of family protection in the years to come. Then my response to the representative Hope we have hope that the Red-Greens will not continue in government, but that the Christian People's Party will join with the Right in government, and that we will be able to make changes that will give family protection more predictability and greater opportunity to be a robust service, so that we can help many children and families in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e657	That's when the tour came to State Council Inga Marte Thorkildsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e661	Thank you, President. I was a little eager there! It's almost tempting to ask former Minister of Finance Foss, who presides, what he thinks of the Right now promising money in cabins and torments. At the same time, we know that this money we don't see the spin off in the alternative state budgets, so you might be able to breathe out easily if you belong to that side. At least I want to start by recommending those representatives who think it is important to strengthen family protection – and what I think is right and important and good – to propose this in their alternative state budgets, because we have done a job and looked at them, and there is no trace of it there. On the contrary, kutter e.g. The progress party in family protection over two fiscal years – that is what has been said. This case is about something I'm burning for, namely family protection. This may include: because I have a voter who in all his working years – at least almost – has worked in family protection, as a family protection therapist. So I'm still getting updates on how important family protection is and how innovative they are. She belongs to a public office, but they're the jam innovative there as well. It is very good and reassuring, because I see that family protection is able to change. They can do their core tasks, even though I know they're under pressure, but they can also change and see the new societal challenges. We have been clear through our specialist directorate that family protection should specifically address a few areas that have been important to address. One is high-conflict families, because we know that the children get very badly harmed when the conflicts are focused on. The other is about violence in close relationships. Family protection was part of the study that the Ministry of Justice initiated a few years ago, which looked at how much violence it really was in a random week. And then you started asking. Then it turned out that family protection had a lot of violence that they had not been aware of before they actually started asking. So they also play an important role in exposing violence, which has then been disguised as the second type of conflict before one began to ask. That's very good. Another thing family protection has gradually begun to facilitate is hearing children. It is also very important to ensure that children have a place in these conflicts, or disagreements, or when making agreements between their parents. We know that there is a lot of good going on in different family protection offices, some are public, some are ideal, or some are religiously driven. We also know that it is a project of our own, do you see me?-the project, of which many offices have been part, and which we see has given positive results. We will continue the offer given through this project, as part of the permanent business of family protection. That's very good. There's a clear change in the way you've been thinking about family protection, because you've been thinking about adults very much. Now we see that the children get a more important and important place. We are very pleased with that in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, and we will encourage that in the future. So we know that the requirement for a maximum waiting time of three weeks for mediation is met in 84 pst. of the mediation cases, towards 67 pst. in 2010. It's a very positive development. We also know that Buffedir, or Bufetat, has reached the demand of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality to perform 75 pst. by all brokers on a national basis. It's also very good, and it's important. The mediation is an important part of the family protection task, but it is also very important that couples who need it, who are struggling, who see that they need someone who can give them advice, have the opportunity to get in touch with family protection quickly. It is quite unique and amazing that we have a government service – state and non-state, then, but it is the state that pays for it – which is a very low threshold, which is free, where you do not need referral, and where there is very little reporting afterwards. That's so good. Now they are also very busy evaluating user satisfaction and user involvement in practice in what they have been doing. It's also great. They work against people with different ethnic backgrounds. We are a multicultural country. We need multiculturally oriented services. There's also a lot of good that happens. For example, we have the Rainbow Project, which is a preventive family work with minority families. That's great. So let there be no doubt that the commitment to family protection is very large and completely in place. Then we'll see what budgetary processes etc. I'm moving forward, but at least it's not right that we're not interested in family protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e689	The President will draw attention to the fact that a change of lines between the President and the Council of State is not governed by the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the Rules of Procedure – and it has now been adopted – provide for a change of lines between the Council of State and the representatives. It's limited to up to five lines. There is currently no need, but the first replicator is the representative of Øyvind Håbreek.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e692	I thank you for the articles of the Council of State. I guess it was at an incubation she forgot to mention that the Christian People's Party has proposed 15 million. I would like to say that I am not in favour of this report, but I would like to say that I am in favour of it. So the council says she has a burning commitment to family protection. The question is then referred back to the Council of State: Where is the State budget of the Council of State and the Government, and in what way is the budget proposal from the Council of State expressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e699	It is absolutely right that the Christian People's Party is completely within. I deliberately chose not to criticise the Christian People's Party, but rather the more ridiculous representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, who has not proposed an increase but who nevertheless turned to the pulpit here, and also the Progress Party, who has proposed cuts in two budget rounds. So that's fine -- the Christian People's Party preaches as they do, to say it like that. That's good. But first of all, I would like to urge the representative, Mr Håbreek, to look further into the budget. We're proposing $9 million. kr extra for family protection this year. It is particularly related to the Rainbow Project and do you see me? project, as I mentioned, which is now going to be part of the business of all family protection offices. It's about children, and it's about combating violence in close relationships. Then I would also recommend the representative to take a look at the letter of assignment. There he will find up to several things that he will be very pleased with, both in terms of the ideals, in terms of tenders, and in terms of family protection. I have received very positive feedback from the letter of assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e706	I hear what the Council of State says, but it is now such that when you see what the Council of State is doing in a government budget, it first uses to see how the Council of State itself presents the budget and what she is most satisfied with and most concerned about. It also uses the opening chapters — on the first pages — of the State budget, which are the main priorities. Finally, it actually uses the means that the government proposes to grant for a purpose. Nine million. kr – yes – but the total allocation for family protection is 370 million. kr, the simple headcount indicates that this is about a price and salary adjustment. In addition, when the Council of State mentions individual projects to be strengthened — to which particular attention should be given — it means that the core tasks of family protection are reduced by the budgets provided by the Council of State. So the question is again, how does this show the involvement in practical politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e715	After all, we look at the parameters we have that family protection is very good. People are very happy with family protection. But then it is that I think we absolutely should strengthen family protection also in the future. I think it is absolutely imperative that we strengthen cooperation between family protection and related services, in particular the protection of children. But we can learn from, for example: Westfold, who has joined the family violence team and been a driver to get it in place, along with the police, the crisis centre and the child protection guard. A very good example! I would rather, if I were the representative of Hope, be concerned about the Right's proposal to reinstate three hours of compulsory mediation, completely without compensating for this in the budgets. Firstly, I believe that this is not a wise solution. If you can't get people to take advantage of the next six hours – which they have the opportunity to do after the first hour – you probably won't get them to agree. It's simply not a reasonable use of resources, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e722	In doubt, the representative, Håbreek, will also be given a last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e725	As far as the proposal on mediation hours is concerned, it is true that the court administration itself has pointed out that many of the matters we are now dealing with in the court system should never have been there. Family protection needs to be given increased resources, and we need more mediation to prevent cases from coming to court. It should be a clear signal when it comes from the Court administration itself. But in addition, the family protection offices around the country are saying, "Yes, we want to spend more time on these issues, yes, we want to spend more time on prevention." However, with the resources they have — and it is illustrated by what the Council of State says — core tasks need to be reduced, prevention needs to be reduced, in order to put in place what they are asked to prioritise when they are not given increased resources. So then my last question to the Council of State is, when is it going to increase the budget, when is it going to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e734	When it comes to the administration of the Court of Justice, first of all, we are in close dialogue on how to relieve them. Obviously, it's important that we relieve them where that makes sense. We want as little as possible to go to the court unless there is reason to have a decision there. When, for example: For cases where there has been violence or sexual assault — serious conditions inside the picture — it is absolutely reasonable to try to avoid reaching such a friendly agreement where the child may be harmed. There we also come up with new proposals if not very long, proposals that have to do with the child's place in these matters. The court administration does not have an in-depth knowledge of family protection and how family protection works. The experience at least I have, and the information I'm sitting with, doesn't mean we're going back to three hours of mandatory mediation. We have our own SINTEF evaluation report, which shows that the target achievement in terms of the share of contracts is the same as before, when it was three hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e739	In order to clarify any misunderstandings following the debate here, and in particular the misinterpretation of the Council of State's opinions, the Right asks that the Government look at the possibility of going back to a scheme of three mandatory mediation hours. We do not propose it in the document. Then we ask that the government facilitate the strengthening of family protection in the years to come. That's what the Right Asks for, and that's because many people feel that the predictability of family protection is weakened. That's why we're concerned that it shouldn't happen. Then my question is to the Council of State: What measures is the Council of State most satisfied with the government's initiative to ensure robust, stable and predictable conditions for family protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e748	It is tempting then to ask the Right to consider the possibility of strengthening family protection in the future, since it has obviously not been part of the assessments that the Right has made before. But we're definitely going to take those assessments inside the government, and then we're going back to this question when the budgetary processes are over. But what I'm most satisfied with is that we've been getting more and more involved in the high-conflict issues. Violence in close relationships is – as the representative of Hofstad Helleland knows through years of association in the Justice Committee – an important matter for me, as well as that we are now better at listening to children, and that family protection is also beginning to improve on the multicultural perspective. So I think we're on the right track, and we're able to reach our parameters in terms of mediation, among other things. But we have to take care of the core tasks – I fully agree with that. It is important to ensure that family protection is available to families who are not only in conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e756	Like the previous replicants, the Progress Party is also concerned about the increase in conflicts that are now taking place in the courts, and there has been a worrying increase in the number of cases. The Progress Party wants it to be automatically shared care in the event of a breakup of life. It has not been said that all families should have shared care, for there are a lot of people who are able to get to a system without being involved by the public at all. But the Progress Party believes that if it is an automatic 50/50 division in the event of a breakup, the level of conflict will be mitigated, because then the families are aware that both, both father and mother, have the opportunity to have 50/50 pst. togetherness. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State sees that it is important that we get a 50/50 pst. distribution in place, so that both father and mother are given equal rights in the event of a break-in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e765	There is some inconsistency in these debates. Instead, when we discussed the father's quota, we were criticized for missing the child's perspective – from the same right-hand side that now stands on the pulpit and only talks about equal rights for parents. As Minister of Children, I would rather recommend that we look at whether this is a good proposal for children. We should definitely stimulate more agreements where you live more closely together, where the child does not travel far, and where it is possible to reach agreements where the child is more with both parents, where this is for the best of the child. But the starting point must always be the best of the child. Then I also have to say that if you want to facilitate more equivalent parenthood, at least you can start by not removing the father's quota, and by making a settlement with the cash support policy. Both parts contribute to cementing a gender role pattern that makes it the mothers that are parents, while fathers are seen as being more subordinate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e772	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e788	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e797	We are now treating something as special as a temporary law with an explicit deadline, which applies to children born in Norway from surrogate mother abroad. The whole intention and motive of the law is to ensure children's legal relationship with their caregivers. We know that in Norway today there are a good many children born of surrogate mother abroad, but who lack the actual formal legal ties with their parents. I am therefore very pleased that there is a broad majority in the Stortinget that now supports this temporary bill for these children. It is important that these children are given the same rights as all other children, so there are children today without legal rights and ties with their parents in Norway. It has led to complex legal issues related to both the establishment of parents, parental responsibility, citizenship, the issue of passports and immigration. Just to take a few examples, what about the care parents die? What right do these children have today for inheritance and insurance? As long as we haven't got the code in place, they don't have one. Perhaps an even more topical problem is that these children do not actually have the right to have their parents at home in connection with parental leave. That is why, on 23 May last year, we already received a temporary regulation, based on the second paragraph of Section 85 of the Children's Act, on the recognition of foreign-born children born of surrogate mother. This regulation was extended not only to the Nordic countries but also to other countries. So now it also applies to the recognition of danger in other countries, where danger is determined by the judgment or administrative decision of the competent authority. A natural country to mention here is the United States, how many of these children are born of surrogate mother. The transitional law we are now dealing with concerns the establishment of parenthood No. 2, when the fatherhood under the Children's Act § 85 is already in place, cf. the regulation. This transitional law is necessary in order to ensure legal rights for children in cases where parents cannot be established under the applicable legislation, i.e.: the child law, the temporary regulation and the adoption law. This applies to cases after a break in life, where the legal father is dead, or where the care parents are cohabitants. The legislation and the law we have today do not regulate these matters. Then questions have been asked from both the Christian People's Party and others about why not wait until revision of the adoption law is in place, where very many of these issues can be solved. But the Workers' Party and the other government parties believe that the rights of these children need urgent action. Following the discovery by the Tax Directorate in June 2011 of a number of cases where the legal motherhood/fathership was not properly implemented, it has been urgent for us to help these families to register the parent in a legally correct way. It is also a very stressful situation for these parents to discover and live with that their children have no legal relationship with them. These are the cases revealed by the Tax Directorate, but we also have to assume that there are several families involved. This applies primarily to families which have concluded surrogacy agreements before 1 July 2010. Since 1 July 2010, Norwegian authorities have had quite clear and unambiguous practices. The Transitional Act is primarily necessary for cases after a break in life, for the death of a legal father and for cohabitation. The majority also support the extension of the law to other parents because it has been desired by these parents during the hearing. Finally, I would like to mention that it is important to have a quick procedure, not least with regard to the right parents who have received letters from the Tax Directorate that the parent will be deleted if the parent has not been put in place by 1 July 2013. For these families, we are clear that we need to get a quick procedure in place to prevent this happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e823	I support the rapporteur's statement on the matter, but I would like to say that this has not been a simple matter for the Progress Party. The Progress Party is against surrogati, and we have been concerned about the recent developments, with a strong increase in the use of surrogati from India – and we also see it in other countries. Now we have got this temporary law on the table, and the Progress Party has doubted that it was right to support the temporary law that is here today to secure the children who have come to Norway, the rights that they are entitled to. There are children who do not know about other caregivers, and some of the children also have a father and a mother for whom it is important to secure the rights. What the Progress Party is skeptical about in this case is the time window that the government provides. That is why the Progress Party has put forward proposals, and I would like to take up the proposals that lie in the matter, that we tighten the time window that lies there today, so that we cannot have new issues – that we can plan to travel and then get the matter settled. Another thing is that this matter that lies here today can – or we do not know that, but it can – create precedent in other matters. What happens to the kids who come to the country using surrogati on the day this temporary law ceases? We know that as long as we don't do anything about the case of surrogati, parents will also use surrogati in the future, and there will be children in Norway. The Progress Party is sceptical and concerned about the development we can see in the future – after this temporary law ceases – and we are afraid that we will see more such temporary laws if we do not take any action. For the Progress Party, it has been important that we also have international forums where this is addressed. It is gratifying to see that India is going to ban the use of surrogati, but it is also important that we politicians in Norway say clearly no to the use of surrogati and show it in the work we are doing. The Progress Party lacks preventive action in this matter. What signals do we send to couples as to whether we allow surrogati or not? When there's no criminal reaction, it's easy to say that we don't like it, but we don't know what to do with it. The Advance Party has not decided whether there should be a criminal reaction in the case of surrogati, but is strongly opposed to the use of surrogati and will at least clarify it in this case, so that there is no doubt about it in the future. With regard to this temporary law, the Progress Party will support the vote, with the amendments we have. We're only doing this to ensure that the children have the rights they're entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e842	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e845	The matter we are now dealing with in Stortinget is an important matter. It is a very important matter for the children born of surrogate mother abroad and residing in Norway. Temporary law on the transfer of parents for children in Norway born of surrogate mother abroad, etc. is intended to provide a legal basis for giving children in Norway, born of surrogate mother abroad, legal parents under Norwegian law. The lack of legal certainty for the children concerned has been crucial to the Right's involvement and to the Right's position in this matter. For me, it is important to stress that the temporary law is a transitional arrangement. The temporary law does not address the major problems related to surrogati, and the law cannot therefore be considered as creating a precedent for future legal proceedings. The proposal for a temporary law aims only at ensuring a good legal solution so that children in Norway, born of surrogate mother abroad, have legal ties with their parenting parents. The law is thus directed against the care parent no. 2, which is the child's social parent, and thus also a caregiver for the child. The law shall address the challenges posed to any child by the fact that the nearest caregiver of the child is not the legal parent of the child under Norwegian law. It is important that these children are guaranteed equal rights with all other children in Norway and that the law respects the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so that the child’s best interests are taken into account. It is the best of the child who is also in this case, which in all the other matters we have dealt with in the Storting today, is crucial to the Right's position in the case. Many of the families involved have lived in the belief that the child has a legal relationship with both his/her caregivers, based on advice and guidance from public authorities who have subsequently proved to be wrong. The right is pleased that the government has promoted this bill, even after the pressure from the Right and after the Right has demanded that the legal security of these children have had to come into place. We are aware that this has been a difficult matter with difficult balances. Such matters should not be easy, but we are pleased that the government parties and the Right today ensure the legal certainty they have. I want to be clear that the Right is the principal opponent of surrogati, and that our commitment to the children in the matter is just to secure the children a legal right for their parents. It's been crucial for our commitment, and it's also been crucial for the position we're taking today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e862	The government has submitted a proposal for a temporary law on the transfer of parents to children in Norway born of surrogate mother abroad. The ideal, of course, would have been that this was completely unnecessary. But there are families in Norway who today do not have the legal parenthood in place. It's not good for the parents – and in no way good for the children. This is why it is necessary to have a law that makes it possible to establish legal parents even in cases where this is not possible under the child law or the adoption law. We should not address the question of surrogati – I can admit that I myself am very sceptical about surrogati – nor should we have a debate on the ethical dilemmas associated with this. The purpose of the temporary law is simply to provide a legal basis for the establishment of parenthood. The person who can seek parenthood under this law is the father’s current or former spouse, registered partner or partner – regardless of sex. That's why the child's social parent can look for a parent by law. The rapporteur presented very good arguments for the importance of this. Several conditions are set out in the bill and only cases where the applicant is resident in Norway and the child is resident in Norway. In addition, the last deadline for applying for 1 January 2014 is set. So it's not a law that applies to any future children born of surrogacy abroad. Like the previous speaker and the rapporteur, I believe that the legislative proposal will not constitute a precedent. Some claim that this is really opening up for surrogati, others that they can't see that this is for the best for children. This applies to families located in Norway. There are children who have grown up to be quite large, there are families who have lived as families and view themselves as families – yes, who are families in some constellation. It's high time you put your parents in place for the families that this is about. Several of them have lived for a long time in uncertainty about their situation and legal status. These are children who are in Norway and who are born using surrogati. They need security in their situation. I am absolutely convinced that this temporary law is for the benefit of children. There are children who have had an unexplained legal status, which may have unfortunate consequences for the children. Now these children can have the opportunity to establish legal parents with their social parents. To quote the Council of State from an earlier case in the main hall: ‘Regarding the best interests of the child and the special needs of the child for safety and stability, considerable emphasis must be placed on them. This has been the focus of the Ministry on the work of temporary regulation and temporary law under the Children's Act. In the case of future legislation too, it will be important to ensure that children are safe.’ Young people must not be harmed in the situation in which they are. They have had no influence whatsoever on their origins. It must also be pointed out that many of those who have used surrogati abroad have done so in good faith — yes, even received incorrect information from the authorities. Then there will be a completely different debate on how we can more effectively ensure that correct information is provided. Finally, I would like to point out that it is taken into account that the child should have knowledge of his/her origin, so that that part of the assessment of the best interests of the child is also satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e887	No matter what kind of view you have of opening up surrogati in Norway or in surrogati in general, it is important for us in the Centre Party to take responsibility for all kids, including those born using just surrogati. New technology offers many opportunities, but also big dilemmas. The centre party is committed to taking the ethical questions seriously. In these issues, we need a value-based approach, and we need to deal with facts. Yes, we are concerned that we should take care of these kids, but at the same time we will in no way encourage the use of surrogati. It is important in these debates to bear in mind that the issues we face are clear evidence that technology offers us many opportunities, but also terrible challenges, and that it creates problems that we have not had to deal with in the past. These questions are about values and ethics: what kind of instruments do you think it is possible to use to get kids? What means should be accepted? Where does the limit of what is acceptable within our values? Should we push at these limits? Here are many questions that it is important to address. But today we are not going to debate it. Today we only have to look at the future of the young people who are already born via surrogati. The government has done a great job trying to find solutions for these kids. While we politicians are obliged to find solutions for young people, we also have to be able to raise ourselves above the individual issues and look at what kind of legislation we want in Norway. We must also bear in mind that all the choices we make on these issues may provide the basis for new debates and questions of further liberalisation. At the same time as technology offers us new opportunities, it is likely that there will be pressure to change the regulatory framework for what will be permitted in the future. The Biotechnology Act is known as being under evaluation and it is not difficult to imagine that, in this context, there is a rapid question of allowing both egg donation and surrogati. So what we are going to decide today is how to determine the parenting of infants born from surrogate mother abroad in Norway. The government has presented a proposal for a temporary law aimed at ensuring the legal rights of the children born of surrogate mother, as described by several. Like several other parties, we in the Centre Party believe that such a transitional law is necessary in order to capture cases where parents cannot be established under the applicable legislation – the Children’s Act, the Temporary Regulation or the Adoption Act. This is especially true in the event of a break-up or after the death of a legal father, but we also believe it is right to facilitate an equivalent establishment of parents regardless of whether there is a break-up or death. A solution outlined by many rather than a temporary law is that these families should apply for stebarn adoption. We don't think that's a good enough solution for more of these families. We believe it is important that these children be guaranteed equal rights to all other children in Norway, that the Children's Convention be complied with, and that the best interests of children are taken into account. As also several others have pointed out here, many of these families have lived in the belief that children have a legal relationship with both their caregivers — this on the basis of advice and guidance from public authorities and that has subsequently proved to be wrong. The centre party is aware that the government is conducting a broader investigation into the issue of parenthood after the use of surrogati. In this case, we do not decide whether to allow surrogati in this country. We only have the intention to find a good legal solution for kids today who are born at surrogati and live with their foster parents. It is therefore very important for us to clarify that this law should not create a precedent for future legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e910	There are many questions that could have been raised in connection with this case and that are affected in the position. I don't have time to get into everyone, but I want to stop at one of them: What about all the other kids? It is obvious that the situations described here — with young people living with one legal parent and not in contact with the other — are many, and that there are many young people living in such a everyday life in Norway today. In order to quote Bufdir’s opinion on the far more restrictive draft law that the government had consulted: ‘Other children who, in our experience, are likely to have the same need for the establishment of legal relations with both their carers in the situations to which the proposal relates and which in the number of cases relate to a larger group of children are excluded’.» What makes the government bring forward a small group of these children and promote its own law? Ensuring young people is to give young people the opportunity of legal parenting within the framework that we have built up over the years nationally and internationally to ensure young people security – through child law, through adoption law, through the international framework we have in this area. Bufdir further writes in his hearing opinion: ‘In our view, rather than proposing a new legal basis for the transmission of motherhood, amendments to the current adoption law should be proposed in order to implement legal adoption as a step-child adoption after death and separation/divorce in all cases where this would be in the best interests of the child.’ And then they write: ‘The adoption institute is well established in Norwegian and international law and the adoption authorities have extensive experience in the assessments and considerations to be made.’;» The government has not only ignored the Council after the hearing, they have taken seven-mile steps in the opposite direction. The nucleus of surrogati is about the transfer of parents. It is not forbidden to travel abroad and make children with foreign women; it is when you transfer parents; it is surrogati. Therefore, this law is in practice implementing surrogati in Norway. The more important it becomes: how does this get hit? How do we show that this is a temporary law, which the majority say it should be? The more strange it becomes to hear that you say no, this law should not form the precedent. At the same time as you put forward a temporary law, you argue in principle. For example, the setting says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Christian People’s Party, considers it important that these children be guaranteed equal rights to all other children in Norway and that we thus believe that the child convention is best complied with and that the children’s best interests are taken into account.’ Then my question is, how do you answer the kids who come after 1 January 2014, if this is the argument for a temporary law? Does that mean breaking the Children’s Convention and the best of the child after 1 January 2014? Even more strange – we get to say, to use a weak expression – it becomes when you read that the government is working on a review of the legislation related to surrogati, in view of a permanent legal situation. We in the Christian People's Party write in our comments on the matter that we take it for granted that such a review «is based on a continued ban on surrogati». It is only the Progress Party that is involved in this remark. The other parties, who claim that the law should not create precedent, also say that a future law relating to surrogati should not be taken into consideration. The point of a temporary law must be to establish that under such a law we want to take care of the basic values of the Norwegian law. Finally, I have a little heart attack. The price-valued exposure shown by the government here for the kids in question is good – even if you choose the wrong solution. But I'm anxious to wait for us to see the same commitment for asylum-seekers, foster children and other children, who really need family and legal security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e946	The President assumes that the representative, Håbrek, intends to take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e950	I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e955	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e958	There was a bit of an ointment from the representative, Håbrek, at the end. Let me just underline that as Minister for Children, it is my responsibility to facilitate the legal care of children in Norway. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture supports the proposal for a temporary law. This bill is related to the tax haven’s handling of fault-registered parenting cases — the so-called redress cases. Some children in Norway born of surrogate mother abroad lack legal parents under Norwegian law. Most of these cases can be resolved within the framework of today’s child law or adoption law, but this does not apply to everyone. The Ministry has therefore adopted a temporary regulation on the recognition of hazards established abroad, and the Government is now proposing a temporary law. The legislative proposal assumes that the hazard has been clarified and gives access to the establishment of a parent for the legal father’s current or former spouse, registered partner or partner – regardless of gender. The adoption law applies, unless otherwise provided for by the temporary law. The cases will therefore be treated in the same way as adoption cases. The law allows the transfer of a parent without the consent of a legal father — this is an exception to the adoption law, justified on the grounds of the child’s needs and the best interests of the child. It is proposed that the application deadline be set at 1 January 2014 and that the law be repealed on 31 December 2015. The proposal sent at the hearing concerned only cases which could not be resolved under the applicable child law, the adoption law or the temporary regulation. The extension of the personality of the proposition has been made following an overall assessment, as a result of recordings in the consultation round. The interested parties in the ‘justices’ must take the initiative to correct the parenthood and the draft law’s proposals on personality and time-limits will contribute to the adoption of such an initiative by more people. Suffering from the fact that the temporary law could cover more children than those affected by the ‘justices’ will, in practice, involve few cases. Prop. 47 L is designed as far as possible in accordance with the applicable child law and the adoption law. It is important that the general arrangements for the establishment of parenthood, which function satisfactorily for the majority of children, are not undermined. The legislative proposal is in line with the NOU of the Swedish Commission, by not proposing access to the recognition of parents established abroad. The bill provides a new basis for transferring parents. This is justified as long as the proposal concerns a temporary law of limited duration — for children who are in Norway with their carers. The legislative proposal shall not constitute the precedent for future legislation. It is therefore completely wrong to claim that the government violates the principles of child law and despite professional advice. My responsibility as Minister for Children is – as I said – to ensure that children in Norway are legally cared for. The law has a limited duration and is not a red race for those who want to use surrogati in the future. The debate on the temporary arrangements for children already in this country must be kept separate from the debate on future legislation, which is an important discussion. I have been very clear about what I think about this matter. We advise against the strongest use of surrogati abroad. There are no special rules for the establishment of parents for children born of surrogate mother, and the general rules of the Children's Act and the Adoption Act apply. After 1 January 2014, a parent of a child’s carer must no longer be a parent. 2 which are previously searched for in accordance with the general rules, specified in the Department's letter to agencies and others dealing with surrogatis matters. The Ministry also publishes information to the public. The legislative proposal is in line with human rights and international conventions Norway has acceded to. The law does not apply to the transfer of parents where an agreement with surrogate mother has been concluded under coercion. The surrogate mother also has party rights in the proceedings. In addition, the right of the child to be informed of its origin has been respected. The Hague Convention on International Adoptions, which Norway has acceded to and implemented in Norwegian law, does not apply to surrogati. The protection against trafficking in human beings — enshrined in human rights, international instruments and national legislation — also applies, of course, to surrogate mothers and the children they give birth to under contract with provocative parents. The legislative proposal does not facilitate surrogati. I also stress that the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion of the Government.no informs about the risk of using surrogati, and that the government on the websites of a sample of current Norwegian foreign stations, including the Norwegian Embassy in India, advises against surrogati. I am concerned about the international development in which children born of surrogate mothers are at risk of lack of parenting and citizenship, and that they are at risk of «beaching» in the country of birth. I am also concerned about the situation of surrogate mothers and the risk they are exposed to, as a result of the rapidly growing surrogate industry. Surrogati is undoubtedly a global phenomenon that needs to be solved globally. The international nature of the issue makes it desirable to review the child law’s parental rules — taking into account both human rights, international conventions, international private law and the laws of other countries. The Hague Conference on Private International Law, which is also a member of Norway, is now investigating surrogati. The Secretariat of the Conference has issued preliminary reports, and we await the final report. I look forward to receiving this report. As I said, this is a phenomenon that we have to solve at international level. That's just how we can get effective action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e986	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e989	This is a temporary law. I will ask the Council of State a brief question – whether she has any views on what will happen when this temporary law is repealed, what arrangements she intends to have for children born with the help of surrogati coming to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e994	First, it's my hope and my wish that parents don't take advantage of surrogati. Those who had to do it do it with a great deal of risk to the children. I look forward to – as I said – the report from the Hague Conference, which is investigating questions about surrogati. In this context, we will take a decision on the further work. We're essentially going back to the established legal situation. We also have to go through the adoption law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1001	There are many questions that could have been asked. I choose to ask the question I asked first in my article. As Buffdir pointed out in his hearing opinion, this proposal concerns only a small minority of all the kids who live with one legal parent and do not have contact with the other, and who may also have a social parent at home. Given this description and the need now seen, namely the need to promote a temporary law in these cases, what does the Council of State think of all the other young people in the same situation — something the Council of State has pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1008	As I have already mentioned, we are going to go through the adoption law. But I also have to say that I think it is strange that the representative, Håbrek, is not more concerned about the kids who are in Norway today, and who have an unsolved situation considering who are their legal parents. I think that should be a concern of the Christian People's Party. For our part, it is important to clarify the so-called corrections. The people involved are in an extremely vulnerable situation. I'd say it's as strong as some are in crisis because of what's happened. Then it's important both to provide good guidance to them, and to clarify the legal basis, so that we get a quick decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1017	I guess there was no answer to the question. I have to say that in the case of the Christian People's Party's commitment both to these young people and to other young people living in the same situation, we – unlike the Council of State – have chosen to follow the professional advice of the Council of State's own professional body, that is, to use the established, recognised institutions we have to ensure parenthood, child law and adoption law. I would rather use the opportunity to ask for something else. The law states that where the agreement is concluded by coercion, obviously the kids do not have this need, and then the law does not apply. As part of the committee procedure, we have asked the Council of State how to ensure that the agreements have not been concluded by coercion. Governments replied: ‘The body conferred on the decision-making authority under the provisional law must therefore consider and decide on questions of coercion when examining applications — in line with other assessments which must be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law.’ How is the Council of State to ensure that agreements are not implemented by coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1029	To the last question, we have no guarantee. There is, of course, some of the problem with surrogati as a phenomenon, that there is a risk of trafficking in human beings associated with it. It has not been said that everyone who has used surrogati contributes to trafficking in human beings, but that there is a problem issue, is obvious. The Hague Conference, which I mentioned, has, for example: not taking a decision on surrogati – they are now investigating this – but they have a role to play in adoption. We aim to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the adoption law and any proposals for amendments thereto, and that the proposals of the Committee of Wise Men and the Committee of Adoption on the extension of access to sterilisation after divorce and death will be followed up. It appears from the consultation note, and there is an answer to the first question raised by Hope. Hope is also free to ask more written questions to the Ministry. There has already been quite a lot of it in connection with this matter, and I think that is good, because this is a question it is important to drill in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1038	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1042	Both the representative Horne and the representative Håbrek have raised questions about whether this law could become a permanent law and not just a transitional law. Then I just want to establish that this is a transitional law, it is a temporary law that will only apply until 1 January 2014. That's a pretty good reason for that. The Norwegian authorities had a very unclear practice with regard to surrogati until 1 July 2010. What happened then? Well, what happened then was that Norwegian authorities and Norwegian foreign stations from then on began to get a one-sided, common practice on how to handle surrogati. From then on, Norwegian foreign stations have treated all surrogate contracts in the same way. What is the situation, is that of the families that had established surrogati before 1 July, very many were actually in good faith. They had received guidance from public authorities, they had been given help in how they would proceed, and they lived in the belief that everything was in order until many of them received a letter from the Tax Directorate in the summer of 2011. Then we're on the other question Hope travels: why do we relate to a small group and make a transitional law for it? Yes, because the Norwegian authorities have contributed to the need for a transitional law by sending a letter to the Tax Directorate to approx. ten families and informed them that the parent had not been properly registered, and that their children had no legal relationship with them. Then we had to find solutions for those families. This concerns children born before 1 July 2010. It has even occurred in the situation that just before Christmas a letter from the Tax Directorate was sent out saying that if the parent has not been corrected before 1 July 2013, it will be deleted. When the Council of State says these are families in crisis, that's a correct description. For many of these families, it is a rather serious situation, and we as a Parliament are obliged to find solutions, legal solutions within the legislation we have today, which ensure that the kids get a proper legal relationship with their parents and actually have a connection even after 1 July 2013. Finally, I would just like to point out that this matter does not create precedent for the future. In its programme proposal, the Labour Party has said no to surrogati. At the same time, I must say that I am very disappointed that the Christian People's Party is not at all concerned with children's rights, but is only concerned with being opponents of surrogati.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1051	I take the floor at the end of the debate just to stress that the Christian People's Party – based on what I said in my previous post, and based on the setting – warns against using a temporary law as a tool. It will change the principles of child law and adoption legislation to address what is called a temporary situation. There we are on safe professional grounds. We have supported – as indicated in the recommendation – the consultation opinion of the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate, which just indicates that a national and international framework has been established to ensure children’s rights and security. When you create a temporary law that violates those principles, with a fundamental reason, you have created yourself a problem that will arise on 1 January 2014. I am still waiting for an answer on how to meet the issues that arise after that, on the basis of the reasons that you put forward here. I am pleased to hear that the Council of State now stresses that the use of surrogati is not recommended, and hopes that Norwegian citizens do not use surrogati after the law expires – but it would have been natural to say that when you actually put the proposition forward, to write it in the proposition, that's what we actually want, that's what we work against, that's what our policy aims in this area: to safeguard the rights of women and the rights of young people by combating surrogati. But there's nothing in the proposition we're dealing with today that says anything about what the council actually said today. When the majority doesn't want to say it in the setting either, it just gets a little weird. Therefore, the Christian People's Party strongly wishes to warn against entering that problem area. Rather, we want – in such a demanding landscape as I see more people here admit that it is – to support us on professional advice from the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate and to stick to the basic principles we have, which are just designed to solve difficult situations. The adoption law is designed for that, and the council has an investigation on its table where a proposed change. The attitude that has been promoted is on this basis delete craftsmanship, and I am pleased that the case-rapporteur, the representative Gjul, now states that this only applies to dealing with the matters where some parents claim to have received advice that led to good faith. The normal thing in such matters would be to ask for some kind of evidence that it has happened, but here you have let light reasoning rule. It has been at the expense of important principles for the safety of children in our law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1060	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1074	The EEA and EU directives are still missing on the political agenda. Most of the directives are adopted without major debates, while others are once again in disgust and strong adjectives are brought up to describe all the evil and renting EEA agreements that apply to us in our everyday lives. In this category, both the Data Storage Directive, the Postal Directive and, in particular, the Temporary Agency Directive belong at home, while in the opposite end we could say that today's consumer rights case is more of a cause of joy. If we look at the consumer side, there are several directives that have strengthened our rights. A good example is when we're going out to travel and there are delays. After a relatively short period of time, the directive can be used to call for our rights to compensation to be met. In addition, we have included in our legislation a number of directives that have also strengthened our consumer rights. In short, I can mention the directive which prohibits unfair contractual terms, the directive on misleading advertising, the Timeshare Directive, the Purchasing Law Directive and the e-commerce Directive, to name a few. When the EU presented a proposal for a Directive on consumer rights in October 2008, many felt that more of our acquired consumer rights were now in decline. The proposal presented was comprehensive and aimed at replacing directives on distance selling, on door sales, on consumer purchases and on unfair contractual terms. And what challenged us was that the proposal for a directive was totally harmonised, which means that the EEA States in their national legislation cannot introduce or maintain rules that differ from the directive. The proposal proved controversial — and not just here in Norway. Now, of course, our European policy is so that we can largely only argue against what comes from the EU when necessary. It was also done when the Commission's proposal became known, but we did something more than just express how unfair we thought the proposal for a directive was to me and you. I believe that the job that was done by many Norwegian teams was groundbreaking for how Norway can get on the road early enough to affect the content of a directive. In all modesty we can well say that the work undertaken to try to change the content of the directive should form a template for how Norwegian views on a matter can be brought before the decision-making bodies in Brussels. But then we have to be there where it happens. The experience of this case shows that good and early anchoring at national level, combined with clear views, was important for achieving the process. It provided the basis for targeted efforts, and early-stage Norwegian analyses and views could serve as a basis for contact with actors in the EU who did not yet have a clear view. We also experienced this through meetings with European parliamentarians, especially German and Danish parliamentarians, where we were told that we were not alone in believing that the proposal for a directive had to be amended. The proposal was subsequently criticised for setting too low a level of consumer protection and, on the one hand, the principle of total harmonisation created difficulties in reaching political agreement. The final outcome of the negotiations between the Council of Europe and the European Parliament became a directive with significantly less scope than the original proposal of the European Commission. Whereas rules on the purchase of consumers and unfair terms were withdrawn from the Directive, so as to now include rules on information requirements in consumer contracts, information obligations and withdrawals in the case of distance and off-sale sales, and regulation of the delivery time in the case of consumer purchases; This means that the Directive, inter alia: covers the scope of the door sales directive and the distance selling directive. The Consumer Rights Directive that we are to adopt today calls for amendments to several Norwegian laws. The law of the right of withdrawal must be amended on a number of points. No decision has been made on how to do so as of today. Furthermore, the implementation of the Directive will require changes to the Consumer Purchases Act and the Crafts Services Act. It will also require regulatory regulation on consumer contracts which are currently partly governed by illegal contract law. Amendments to the Financial Agreements Act could also be relevant. There is a great deal of political consensus in this House about our consumer policy, and the same consensus is also reflected in the Committee's consideration of this EU directive. A unanimous committee endorses the amendments made by this Directive to our legislation and consumer rights. Furthermore, the Committee is pleased that the Directive reduces Norwegian consumers' rights only in very limited areas, while in other areas it strengthens our consumer rights. The Committee would stress the importance of the fact that, in addition to the changes that would result from the Directive in Norwegian law, it is important to note the changes that would result from the Directive in the law of other European countries, which in turn will affect Norwegian consumers when they are in EU/EEA countries – and also through the trading of networks from EU/EEA countries. The Committee would also stress the importance that in many areas and in many countries the Directive will significantly strengthen consumer rights. Finally, the draft suspension of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture has been submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which is in agreement with the draft text of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture and has no further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1100	Thank you for that, rapporteur. It seems that Stortinget also has no further comments, and that the debate on case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1116	Economic crime is a very comprehensive area. As mentioned in the Interpellation text, there may be ever-increasing phenomena and ranging from insider dealing, price manipulation, manipulation of robotics on the stock exchange and money laundering to tax crime, competition crime, online banking fraud, fictitious invoicing, fraud in the trading of allowances, corruption and terrorist financing. Of course, a lot of other crime is also about making money, but in the area we have separated as financial crime, financial and economic instruments are used primarily. A special feature of this crime is that there are exceptionally great values to society at stake. Ecocrim has estimated that the tax evasion and related crime component, such as black work, competition crime, VAT fraud and the like, alone represents a loss for the welfare community of 136 billion. kr per year. Another feature is that the risk of discovery in the area of financial crime is largely too small, and even when someone is discovered, it is not certain that one has the capacity to ‘take’ matters. This creates an unfortunate situation where white-collar criminals have more opportunity to escape than other criminals, and because the others see this, the more traditional criminals can also seek to fight economic crime. We already see clear signs of this, for example. in the Nordea case, on the fraud of bank accounts for more than 60 million. kr, and in several cases on online banking fraud, VAT fraud, money laundering, etc. Ecocrime specifically warns against this in its threat assessment for 2013–2014, that traditional criminals are now applying for financial crime. We see that they are able and have the opportunity to ally themselves across borders, and even though they are not specialists themselves, they will be able to gain a high level of competence from other criminal environments around the world, and this is becoming increasingly demanding for the police to meet. So it becomes crucial for us to increase preparedness, efforts, against these environments in the years to come. The Ecocrim initiative often comes from other establishments and businesses, such as the tax system, Labour Inspectorate, Financial Supervision, Nav, Competition Surveillance, Customs Office, etc., and then it is important to make good use of these resources when dealing with matters. These agencies must be given an even better opportunity to complete cases for the police, so that less work falls on the latter, and so that they can address several cases. For tax matters, it would mean that, in my opinion, tax incentives should have legal basis for going to court, asking for permission to prove, search and seize computers, electronic equipment, accounts, etc., and thus to complete the case for the police to a much greater extent than today. Today, only the police themselves can do this, while in the areas of Competition and Financial Supervision there are greater possibilities for making such evidence assurances themselves. Another measure that will be important for the tax system and the Ecocrime is to change the absolute obligation of professional secrecy relating to the client accounts of the law firms. When six of these companies in a few years, according to a review of the tax rate, transferred 7.5 billion. kr to tax havens via these client accounts, there is a major problem that, according to a Supreme Court judgment, the police and tax authorities have no opportunity to gain transparency. It is necessary to give them better legal support, and it is very commendable that the Ministry of Finance has now sent out a proposal to change this at the hearing. My second main point — after what I have said about the use of other agencies’ resources — is, of course, that the police’s own resources to deal with eco-cream issues need to be further built up. This applies to both the regional and ecocrim teams. It is positive and important that ecocrime teams have been set up in all police districts since 2005. It has given rise to new efforts, new skills and new continuity, but it has also meant that new challenges have been identified and new tasks have been addressed, and thus a great deal of pressure has been put on their resources. A working group in the Police Directorate last year produced a report on the functioning and organisation of eco-teams in the districts, and it becomes very important to build on when we are going to improve and develop them into an even more useful tool. In the 2013 budget, the government also says that it wants a review of the resources of Ecocrime centrally. This is equally crucial, because if Ekokrim is not able to take the biggest and most complicated cases, we will risk overloading local districts, as we do, for example. has looked at the inside matter of Stavanger and Rogaland called the Acta case. There, the police district has estimated that for some years, since 2008, they have spent up to 40 years in one case, thus having too little capacity to deal with other issues. In this, there is something about finding the balance between what is a matter of ecocrim central, and what is going to be local. Ecocrime will of course want to address as many issues as possible — issues that they should take, which are complex, large and serious enough — but they have limitations. In 2012, they had the power to take in 15 new things. They can't help but realize that what they've got is 140 years' worth of work. A major issue that the Transocean case – which began as early as 2005 – has so far required up to 40 years of work on them, and new rounds are coming to trial; an eight-month round is ongoing until September. When the major issues can be so resource-intensive that the ten biggest issues of Ecocrim, on which I have asked for an overview of the use of annual work, have demanded about 200 years' work plus other expenses, a very large part of Ecocrim's resources are tied. So that's why they have so little ability to take in new things. In addition, they have received a Supreme Court judgment — that was well in 2010 — that justification is required for appeals in the Supreme Court, which has led Ecocrim to use one third of its resources on new rounds of old cases that can be re-opened, on the basis of a justification for the appeal. In order to avoid discrimination against crime, this means that over the years to come, we will have to plan to equip both regional and regional ecocrime teams, including, in particular, their assistance teams to assist the districts when they have complex issues and which can improve the resolution of a number of issues. It will be important that we train 720 high school police students per year, and that the high school of police places emphasis on ecocrime in their education. It will provide more resources in the years to come. But it will also help to bring together some police districts, so that the ecosystem teams can become more robust and gain greater competence and continuity. The report that POD has now received has initially looked at an alternative, namely to create a regionalisation and reduce to 16 teams with today's model. An objection to it is, of course, that some districts will not have equal access to ecochromatic resources, which in turn could damage daily work. There's one issue I'd like to focus in particular on so that financial crime won't pay off. This concerns the work on withdrawal. If you get a sentence and you can almost count and count a month or a year you don't pay, how much money you have out there that the police haven't found and withdrawn, someone will be able to see it that crime pays off. In 2012, there were only 108 million. - from crime. The highest figure — at least in recent years — was in 2008, when 226 million. The kr was withdrawn. Of course, it varies with the kind of things from which you get funds every year, but both of these numbers are really low numbers if you like. sees it in relation to the major ecocrime issues. When faced with such difficult individual cases within tax regimes as, for example, The Transocean case – which is now about 11.7 billion. kr in alleged tax evasion – our total withdrawal figures are small. It's especially against the common criminal you get involved, not the white-collar offenders. It is essential that we do more to improve the work of police districts and ecocrims centrally against withdrawal, that the police use their ecocrim resources more in the recruitment work, and that better resources are allocated to it. In particular, it should be possible to make a change to the law so that the limitation of withdrawal requirements begins after the termination of the settlement, so that no profit can be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1144	Economic crime spans a number of criminal offences, and it is practiced in many different arenas. This makes the challenges of tackling it complex and cross-sectoral. Economic offences have different degrees of complexity and vary in scope. On the one hand, we have cases where the perpetrator exploits his or her position, trust, network or influence to engage in criminal transactions, often on an international scale. This is advanced economic crime where complexity is more prominent than the number of cases. Other infringements are numerous but more common in nature and are committed by a wider range of persons, typically undeclared work, misplaced self-declaration and fraud in respect of various welfare benefits. In recent years, economic crime has given us new challenges. Ecocrime refers to a development in which detected offences are becoming increasingly widespread and involve greater values, where more are being carried out in a more professional way, and cases are becoming increasingly difficult to investigate and rectify. Part of economic crime is also organised crime. This applies both where the conduct of economic crimes is organised and where criminal networks see different types of financial crime being used for the purpose of money laundering of criminal proceeds. The use of data tools to implement financial crime is increasing, and electronically stored information as a track site is becoming increasingly important. This poses new challenges for the detection and resolution of crime. Combating economic crime is a priority area of government, and the Action Plan against economic crime contains important strategies and measures. The plan entered into force in March 2011 and shall be implemented by the summer of 2014. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for reaching the mid-term stage of the plan to discuss the challenges in this important area in the future. The main objective of the Action Plan is to improve the coordination and effectiveness of overall efforts to combat economic crime. As Minister of Justice, I have a special responsibility for the police and prosecution to help meet this goal. I want to focus here on two main challenges. Firstly, how should the police organise their efforts against financial crime? Secondly, how can we get maximum synergy out of the joint efforts of the police and the various control bodies to combat financial crime? An important starting point is the organisation of police work against financial crime. In 2005, eco-teams were established in all police districts to promote the fight against crime. Following the ecocrim model, police districts shall establish a multidisciplinary unit of lawyers, investigators and auditors. In order to raise efforts and ensure production, the employees of the eco-team shall be protected, i.e.: do not work in other criminal fields or are assigned to other services such as on-call, watchkeeping, prisoner transport, etc. In order to ensure the quality and efficient use of resources, staff shall not only be protected but also co-located, i.e. have a common office space. The Directorate of Police, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, has identified both the status and the challenges in the police districts seven years after the scheme was introduced. The report Organisation of the eco-teams received by the Ministry last December is an important basis for the development of measures to strengthen efforts in the future. The report shows that eco-teams provide effective crime control and work well in the police districts where the intentions of the scheme are met. However, the way police districts organize their efforts is different. The report shows that well over half of the districts still do not meet the three basic requirements, professional competence, worker protection and co-location. This is not good enough, and it shows that we have important work ahead of us. This year, the Police Directorate will give priority to the work on financial crime. This is expressed in the year’s letter of award, by reporting to the Directorate on the organisation and impact of the work against financial crime. I stress that the Directorate of Police has an important responsibility both in terms of overall management of the efforts in the police districts and in terms of the development and dissemination of good working methods. I assume that the Directorate of Police, on the basis of the report on the eco-teams, is developing and implementing the necessary measures to strengthen the fight against economic crime. The basis for enhanced efforts is professional environments with the necessary skills and continuity. Furthermore, police districts must have a staff that provides the capacity to deal with major and complex issues. Finally, district units must have a certain size to achieve stability in day-to-day operation, regardless of major issues, sick leave, etc. The police analysis will look at how, overall, we can get the maximum out of the police's resources. In this context, organisation will be assessed, both district structures and the relationship between the Police Directorate, the police districts and the special agencies. The selection will also assess competence. In concrete terms, this means that the sample will assess the police's efforts and competences, including in the field of financial crime, including the organisation of work. The ability of police districts to combat economic crime must be seen in the context of the role of ecocrime in the fight against crime. I stress that Ecocrim should continue to have sufficient resources to deal with the biggest and most serious criminal cases and to be able to carry out its work as a national centre of competence. The challenge is to find a good balance between the size of Ecocrim and the power of police districts. I also look forward here to the outcome of the police analysis, where the relationship between special agencies and districts will be further discussed. In Sweden, the «Ecobreaker Authority», corresponding to our Ecocrime, will, from 1 July, be given overall national responsibility for economic crime. The Ministry of Justice will assess the Swedish investigation on which this is based, to see if we can learn from the Swedes. The relationship between police and public authorities is important for the overall fight against economic crime. In the areas of tax and tax crime and fraud involving social security and welfare goods, the activities of control bodies are essentially responsible for the risk of detection and detection of crime. As a result, the resources of control bodies, legislation, organisation and working methods become key factors in police action, effort and task-solving. Police and control bodies have consistent overall objectives for their work. A common understanding of crime challenges and priorities is important for a balanced and coordinated effort. Balance and good coordination promote general prevention, with the risk of detection being accompanied by criminal response. Good coordination will also contribute to efficient use of resources. The police, together with the controls, must create the good arenas for the exchange of information, planning and implementation of the fight against crime. A good example of the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation is where police and supervisory authorities join forces in industrial actions, for example. control of the restaurant industry. Different agencies like the tax authorities, the municipalities, the Food and Drug Administrations and Nav use each other's competences and resources together with the police, giving good results. Respect for the law is conditional on abuse and fraud affecting the individual. When the Tax Directorate and the Nav Control find that the police do not have the capacity to deal satisfactorily with all the cases, it is serious. The National Attorney General and the Police Directorate are also concerned that the police should have the capacity to deal with these matters. The Action Plan on economic crime places great emphasis on the need for good dialogue between the departments and the active use of existing cooperation agreements. However, we must take inwards that different organisational approaches alone are not good enough. We also need to consider strengthening the police's capacity to follow up these issues. Finally, I would like to stress that I know that there are a number of exceptionally skilled and committed professionals in both the public and private sectors who are working to combat economic crime. Their competence and participation in professional communities are the main factor in the continued development of knowledge and working methods in line with the evolution of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1193	I thank the Council of State for a good and direct article. We also came up with concrete things that were useful to hear the Council of State's assessment of. It was, for example: It has been established that well over half of the police districts do not meet the three basic conditions for the ecocrime teams, i.e. multi-disciplinary competence, worker protection and co-location. The council stressed that it was not good enough, and that she had included it in the letter of assignment to the directorate. This is a serious situation, because it can mean that there is discrimination against financial crime around the country, so that some police districts are too weak to address it. So I would like to address the question of the models contained in the report of the Police Directorate Working Group. I'm aware that it's the directorate that's going to follow it up, but as I said in my post, this is linked to whether the way to go is fewer police districts to get more powerful ecocrime teams. Of course, we need to increase resources too, but it needs to be combined with other approaches. Is it right to consider the first step taken by this working group, namely to add to regionalisation in the first place, so that we do not have to wait too long before these ecosystem teams become stronger and larger? That's the one thing I'd like to comment on. The second concerns the assessment of ecocrim resources centrally. I see it as very serious that they face things that are so heavy that they are almost unable to deal with a number of things that they should definitely address. They managed to take in only 15 cases last year. They meet counterparties who have almost unlimited resources to hire what I would call white-collar lawyers, who have specialized in this kind of crime, and who can absolutely all of the law's possible and not possible loopholes and possibilities for the utmost. This means that you’re going on for years — and have very long legal cases that are difficult to limit. The Transocean thing that is now going on in Oslo District Court, is set up up to eight months. Last year, almost half a year was spent dealing with the Acta case in Stavanger. The questions are, how can you get the resources of Ecocrim to match it? When will the review announced in the budget come — what is the focus of the review of ecocrim resources? How can we build up the ability and competence of the courts to limit matters, so that they do not spend months on things that are of little relevance?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1202	The Police Directorate has been clearly instructed to step up efforts to combat financial crime in the current year. We want to have a report on the measures and the impact of increased efforts. In order to succeed in that work, it is of course important, as I mentioned in my reply, that the Directorate assesses whether the report that has now been submitted on the eco-teams provides good suggestions on how to step up efforts. As I explained, it is important that, in the long term, we also ensure a thorough review of how we can strengthen our efforts, whether we have organised ourselves well enough. One of the key issues that has been put in place for this purpose is the police analysis committee, which will go through the use of resources throughout the police, and which of course will also deal with economic crime. In the wake of this, the focus will be on what skills are needed, as well as what organisation is expected to produce the best results. That is why I mentioned that this can also have an impact on the role of Ecocrim. Today, as I described, Ecokrim has its role not only in the specific economic issues, but also as a centre of expertise. We also assess the Swedish model to see if there is anything in this we are going to get inspiration from. What has been good about the functioning eco-teams has been the multidisciplinary competence. The lawyer, the police investigator and the economic competence, whether it has been an auditor or an economist, have had mutual benefit from well-functioning cooperation. I believe that in improving the fight against economic crime in the future, it is this multidisciplinary competence that we must be committed to ensuring, no matter how we proceed with the larger organisational framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1213	Interpellanten Bøhler has travelled a very topical interpellation. We are seeing an increasing amount of economic crime. As Bøhler also pointed out, every day in the legal system we see extensive issues that have media interest. It has become that it is these matters that are the most extensive in the judiciary, those that require the most resources both on the prosecution side and on the defender's side, and that go over a very long time. Therefore, these issues should be given increasing political attention, as this affects the entire judiciary and how to prioritise resources in the police and prosecution authorities. Clearly, these matters are of great public interest. Tax evasion, VAT fraud, corruption, etc. are interesting matters for the public. The fact that they go over so long also gives journalists a lot to write about, and it creates a lot of attention. These are issues with major international branches, and there are issues relating to large sums. There are issues where there are very resourceful actors involved, and there are spokespersons on the lawyer's side both at the prosecutor's office and on the defender's side. There is much to be said about the level of taxation and the legislation that businesses are subject to in Norway, but there is another debate. I therefore share the point of departure and the point of view of how important it is to focus on economic crime. The legislation adopted by the Stortinget shall be complied with and offences shall be investigated and prosecuted in line with other crimes. As we have also seen in recent years, Norway has become much more interesting in view of international crime in many areas. We have e.g. has had a debate here on the travelling commercial gangs, it is one aspect, but it is also about financial crime in other areas. For extensive international criminal networks, it is clear that it is interesting to work against Norway because of the economic situation of Norway and the economic situation of our citizens. Economic crime poses a major danger to ordinary citizens and a danger to international trade and business by relying on, for example, the network trade and cross-border flows of goods may be significantly impaired. This may affect small and medium-sized enterprises. The Council of State made an effort to do this with the organisation. I think we have to – in the context of the police analysis that comes – use a lot of resources on this. I want to ask you how good these local eco-teams are going to be when we're going to have it in 27 police districts. It's clear that when one, two or three police lawyers sit in these districts and work on these extensive issues, I think it's going to be less effective work, and I think there's going to be little legal certainty about such matters. As Mr Bøhler also said, such cases will also go beyond the investigation of other important matters in the districts. So we have to look at it. Perhaps more of these cases can be addressed by Ecocrim by increasing their resources. We need to discuss this in the future. In addition, I would like to raise a case at the end: In today's Business on Saturday, lawyer Dr. Juris Bjørn Stordrange, who has good experience in Ecocrim business, had an article entitled "Ecocrim needs to be improved". I see that the head of Ecokrim has a shorter response in today's business today. It might be interesting to hear how the Council of States is dealing with the views that Grand-Drange foreshadows in this article, and whether these are the views she wants to take with her in order to improve the work against this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1234	I would like to thank you for raising this issue today. When statistics on crime are provided, it is not necessarily the case that economic crime is the main focus and the main headlines, and the various types of crime involved in economic crime are not always seen in the context. The reasons for that are many. There are few that are taken. There are simply too few people with resource strength in Norwegian prisons and too many people with disabilities. Economic crime is often more invisible. It's complicated. And then, in fact, there are sometimes slightly different attitudes in society to committing financial crime, for some of those who do, are neatly decorated people. I will take an example: when I have pointed out and criticized someone who has been involved in economic crime, who has been a top politician or a businessman, it always calls some angry lady and says that I am incredibly bad – he has done so much for society. Then I have replied that it is nice to hear that she is for the repatriation of criminals, and I hope it is in general – also for a little more worn-out drug addicts who are also in Norwegian prisons. It's not popular to answer that way. It might say something about taking on a little bit easier, mentally speaking, economic criminals, because they do so much nice and great otherwise, alongside crime. So an attitude change related to a certain type of crime is also important to focus on. I'm also glad that the interpellant Bohemian addresses this with how we can make better use of society's overall resources. I had an interpellation about better use of civil servants and the lack of a national strategy to better use them in the police districts. It is paradoxical that the police districts differ in their attitude toward civil servants. Not all police districts see well enough opportunities to use other professional groups more than they do today, to gain more top competence. Also in the case of e.g. tax, is open to the right to assess whether to acquire an investigation competence that is not currently available, simply in order to make better use of available resources. In the case of professional secrecy and lawyers, we think it is special that in many ways the Bar Association has been set up in advance by exempting a very central part of it via the Ministry of Finance. We find that unfortunate and believe that it should have been assessed there. When it comes to financial crime, it's important to see that things are connected. I also had an interpellation recently about the safety industry. It may sound a little out of the way, but at quite a number of outbacks in this city you can see that there is illegal giving and trafficking in the premises, and this is because you do not have control — or rather, it is wrong people who have control — of what is happening inside the walls. Sites are most likely to have quite a lot of other side activity, to put it mildly, alongside money laundering in what is an experimentally legitimate enterprise. There are examples of Securitas pulling out of an outhouse here in the city in consultation with the police, because they were not allowed to enter the room. Then you had put Securitas outside as a kind of alibi, and then you committed crime on the inside. You don't want serious actors involved in this, nor do you want unprofessional actors who are so-called law enforcement officers inside. It says a little bit about the extent of the crime that's also happening under the control of the yards. A point that is important in the context of this interpellation is that modern forms of economic crime, such as the use of drugs and drugs, are being used in the field of drugs. ‘cyber crime’ and ID theft also give rise to some form of class justice. One thing is that people can guard themselves by e.g. not to walk in the darkest streets in the evening, but you can't easily guard against being exposed to ID theft. We see that more and more are now being offered insurance schemes. That means that the most mediated of us have the opportunity to insure and get help when we need it when we're exposed to ID theft, while those who don't have it have the less chance. So there could be some sort of class justice by making the weaker ones in society even easier victims of financial crime, without the possibility of protecting themselves from it if they can't afford to pay expensive insurance. As far as police structures are concerned, I think we should be careful just to merge police districts and think that there will automatically be better fight against economic crime then. Oslo and Romerike are better than some police districts, but they are not so much better than the smaller ones that it suggests that size is the only thing that counts. So we wait for the police analysis and hope that we get more police officers with fewer tasks that they do better, and that you don't just move on boxes to do a restructuring for the sake of the restructuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1249	Economic crime costs Norwegian society billions every year. The pitfalls that lead to these major losses are everything from social security fraud, tax evasion and accounting crime to money laundering. What still distinguishes financial crime from all other crime is that it is much harder to discover. There are often complicated issues, and those who do this crime are not so easily picked up by the police. It is easier to discover someone who has crushed the way to a store to steal beer, than someone who wears a dress and tie and knows a lot about how to avoid being discovered when they cheat for millions of dollars. There's also a kind of social dimension in it that we need to discover more economic crimes and get more convictions. If you do something wrong, the risk of being drawn should be as much as possible regardless of which community you come from, and whether you are poor or rich, careless or well-dressed. A hallmark of economic crime is that he is often less targeted at individuals in society. Often, this type of crime is directed against economic and non-profit interests or against financial institutions and large corporations. Many of the police investigations carried out are the result of messages. When it comes to financial crime, the individual motives for reporting are often not present, which makes the work of the police even harder. For this very reason, it is important that the police and Ecocrime have enough resources to carry out research and work on their own initiative. If we're going to be able to take those who run this type of crime, we're going to need an offensive hold and enough resources. But an offensive hold is not enough. Often this type of crime hides behind fine-tuning techniques of advanced financial crafts. It is therefore important that the police and prosecution authorities have good, up-to-date knowledge in this area. We simply can't afford to hang out in this area. Therefore, it is positive that the eco-teams in several police districts are happy to discover and solve economic crime more effectively. The 2013 European Police Directorate’s letter gives clear indications that they should give priority to the fight against economic crime. I hope that this will lead to well-functioning eco-teams in all police districts, while Ecokrim must be well equipped to take the biggest and most serious cases. Otherwise I refer to the interpellant of Bøhler's considerations. I end up with a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1264	It is a very important interpellation and a very important topic addressed by the representative of Bohemia. Economic crime is widespread. It costs society a lot of money -- money that is society's and community's resources, money that people have invested in the community in the belief that this money will go to hospitals, research, infrastructure, kindergartens and schools. Then it is important that we, as authority, do everything we can to ensure that the money goes where it is going and is not stolen. Then it is important that we have legal homes and measures in place, but also good, trained, competent officials and women in both police, ecocrime and other relevant departments, who are able to catch this up, and are able to investigate and punish. The two things – paying taxes with pleasure and having confidence that the money is used for what they are meant to be – are closely linked. If a person is unable to do this job and fight this type of crime, trust and motivation to pay taxes can and will fall. Fighting is important. But no crime, nor financial crime, can be combated only by the police and our competent officials and women. There are still people who commit this kind of crime as well. They're among us, we know them, we see them -- they're around us. Then it's important that, as a society, we draw the line that the representative Octay Dahl was in. It's our means, it's our society and it's our means they steal, and this line has to go here. It's our means, and it's they who steal, whether it's your neighbor, your cousin or your own husband. Then we must make sure that we are in place and that we fight this crime in attitudes. We must help to combat this type of crime, to combat it, but also to pass it on to relevant agencies so that we can combat it. That's how we think we can fight this crime. Then I am very happy that the Council of State and the Government are so inside the case and are doing competent work to combat crime. Again, this is a common issue. Every Norwegian citizen and the authorities that now have confidence, whether it's the police, we in this room or in the government, will stand together to take care of the community's resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1273	It's very nice to stand on the platform here and give credit to the interpellant who has taken the initiative to raise such an important question. The debate so far shows that we largely agree, at least, on both instruments, direction, etc. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the last post, by the representative Chaudhry, who mentions the fact that we are talking about attitudes. Combating economic crime is a matter of police, investigative bodies and competences at various public institutions to detect and prosecute financial crime. But we also need to establish some attitudes in business and in society that allow us to prevent crime from happening – attitudes that express and are based on, an understanding that economic crime undermines confidence in the economic system. It undermines the trust in fundamental rules of the game of interaction in the economic system, and if this is allowed to develop, it thus helps to confound the very foundations of society and democracy by believing that it is unlikely that if I reduce taxes, I earn it, and no one loses it. It's an attitude that's undermining and confusing to the whole social structure. Therefore, this is essential. It is very good – and I think this Bigholding deserves honor and honor – that when we deal with the big message about the fight against organised crime, where, of course, economic crime was an essential element, we stand united behind the strategies outlined in that big message. So we can probably never be completely satisfied with the state of things. I think the Council of State gives a good summary – a lot has been done, but a lot remains. Ecocrime does a great, important and great job. I think it's important that the Storting is aware of that. But they have a very difficult job. Here you will meet with both the defendants and their advisers. It is extremely resource-intensive to investigate these matters. That is why we need a wider apparatus, which is also referred to in the Storing Message. We have to have eco-teams that are more likely to act as a first instance to reveal matters than they are today. We also need other public agencies such as tax, Nav, customs, etc., which are also supposed to contribute to the detection of economic crime. I also want to address another issue that is adjoining: corruption. We can, rightly, claim that we in Norway are too proud of the corruption we see in other parts of the world. But we can never lean back here or be sure that corruption is not happening. We've seen examples of that. The waterworks case in Rome is an example, and we also have the building scandal in Bærum as another. What may be a characteristic of many of these serious corruption issues we have seen lately is that very many of them have been exposed by the press – not by the police, not by government agencies. Therefore, it is essential that we have control systems that enable us to detect or intercept corruption before it happens. The complaint subject of public acquisitions, KOFA, is such a body. Government purchases for 400 billion each year. kr. That's 15 pst. of the gross domestic product, a huge honey pot for economic exploitation and default. We must then have a control body to monitor and take action to ensure that those purchases are correct and under the law. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that under the red-green government, the importance of KOPA has been weakened. From being an executive control body, it has become an advisory body. I hope that the Council of State can take hold of that and comment, so that we get a turn in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1289	I would like to thank all those who have made contributions, for very good speeches, and for posts that took a common strong stance on this type of crime – no one mentioned and no one forgotten. Things were also brought up that filled out the picture I tried to draw, for example. the last post of Anders B. Werp, where corruption was underlined. There is, of course, the second issue in the Ecocrim threat assessment, so there is every reason to include it as part of the picture when it comes to combating economic crime. There were several people who supported different actions and efforts that I had in mind. I am, among other things, It is pleased that the representative Octay Dahl mentioned the use of the overall resources of society, and that proposals for, inter alia, The tax credits may be increased in the case of, inter alia: evidence assurance. There was a small detail in the posts of the representative Octay Dahl I just wanted to comment briefly, and it was with this whether client accounts should have been assessed by the law commission that is now going to work in the future. The reason why this was taken by the Ministry of Finance now — it was sent to the hearing before Christmas once — was that it was already in the action plan against financial crime that the government put in 2011 and in the setting up of the Grand Duchy Justice Committee on organised crime, where we asked for changes when it came to client accounts. So it's a matter that, in my opinion, is over-mature, and that it wasn't right to wait a few years before you could go on. It's a discussion we can probably get back to. I am pleased with the great consensus that is here, and I believe that it will be important to go forward throughout the criminal chain in order to improve the fight against economic crime, and avoid any special treatment of it, from the initiative phase to the investigation, the courts and the conditions of reconciliation and withdrawal. With regard to the last paragraph of the criminal chain, punishment and atonement, there was an interesting comment that BI professor Petter Gottschalk had in today's Business on February 5th this year. He reviewed the settlements of some of those convicted in heavy, economic crime cases, and pointed out that in a number of these cases they were sentenced throughout the island community on Bashøj. He mentioned there a good deal of familiar matters that aroused my curiosity and the need to review what is practice. There's a lot of things to deal with all over the chain. This is a great effort that will require more of us in the years to come. I thank you for giving us the opportunity to have this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1306	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing this important issue. I would also like to thank you for the debate. There have been many interesting views and suggestions. We agree that economic crime must be combated and efforts stepped up, and it is good to note the broad political consensus it is on this topic, how it is playing on and dealing with the values of the community, and how important it is for us to call about them. The effort should be reinforced, as I said, and although we are prepared to use more resources, it is no less important to ensure that resources are used correctly. That is why I spent so much time in my article on the issue of organisation and competence. I also look with interest at views expressed not only in this room, but also in the media, relating to these issues when we are now going to deal with them in the time that comes. As has been pointed out, crime should not pay off. It is therefore also necessary to give priority to withdrawal. We have set this as one of the clear demands of the Police Directorate for enhanced efforts. Of course, this should also be seen in the context of the fact that the police are thinking in the long term about building skills and about the interest of withdrawal and ensuring that it is practical to use this opportunity even better than we have done so far. With regard to what the representative of the Ministry of Finance said about the consultation note on client accounts, I can also mention that although this letter of consultation has been sent out, the Legal Affairs Committee is free to make any new proposals, additional proposals or proposals for changes on this topic – if they consider it appropriate. There has also been discussion of possible new powers for tax incentives. I would like to ask for views on this from the Riksadvokat and see if there is any basis for following it up with the Ministry of Finance, who is responsible for this legislation. Then it's about that I didn't get the theme of corruption right now, but that's what we get back to when that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1321	That being the case, it is no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1335	The representatives of Greece, Octay Dahl, Tetzschner and Meling have presented a proposal for a representative on measures to improve fire protection in housing. The Committee shares the view of these representatives that it is important to improve the fire safety of dwellings in order to reduce the number of people killed in fires. Eight out of ten who die in a fire die in an owner-occupied dwelling. Therefore, naturally, it is so important to focus on the dwelling. We also know that guest workers living in rental homes are particularly exposed to fire, and there are examples of dramatic fires in such housing units. The rapporteurs would like, inter alia: information in more languages than Norwegian, more frequent supervision of electrical installations and the fact that dwellings being compartmentalised must be checked and approved upon completion. Proposalers will also have an assessment of the need to strengthen the requirements with regard to what they call authorisation for operators with responsibility for installation and supervision. They also want an independent evaluation of the competence of local electricity regulators, as well as a closer look at the sanctioning possibilities in the event of a breach of legislation. What has already been done by work and measures to strengthen the fire safety of dwellings, the Minister of Justice and Security very carefully explains in his letter to the Judicial Committee dated 31 October last year. The objective of fire protection is, as the Council of State writes, a zero vision, i.e. no one is going to die, as stated in St.meld. No 35 for 2008-2009, Fire safety, and its downgrading. More and targeted preventive efforts and improved preparedness and handling capabilities are focused on the national objectives of fire protection. A working group has been set up to review the understanding and security of fire in owner-occupiers and the current information, supervision and control system is appropriate. The report of this working group, which was largely composed of what I would call professionals, concludes that there is a need, first and foremost, to develop and sharpen existing prevention measures, such as: enhanced supervision and control, strengthening of the celebration service with regard to the frequency and content and improvement of fire protection information during supervision and control. The working group also advocates stricter safety requirements for combustible textiles and textile-containing products. The group also believes that there is a need to improve knowledge of who is hit by fire. One year ago, a NOU was presented entitled Safe at home – Fire safety for vulnerable groups. It points to a series of responses to vulnerable groups, and the role of municipalities has been very important here. The focus must be on nursing homes, receptions for asylum and accommodation for guest workers. The Directorate of Civil Protection and the Ministry will actively follow up this NOU. In spring, the Directorate for Civil Protection will present a national strategy for information and awareness-raising in the field of fire safety, including even better information for immigrants and foreign workers. The brochure Fireproof housing is now available in 32 languages, so I must be allowed to ask the proposers here, as they maintain their proposal, about which languages they think are missing. I think it might not be necessary to have a fight for that issue in the national Parliament. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State describes what is being done with regard to the supervision of electrical installations, including: related to compartmentalisation and in the case of risk assessment, and to what is to be assessed in the ministry. More frequent monitoring and supervision are, and are likely to be, important instruments. The Council of State states that the Ministry has asked the DSB to clarify the requirements for all those involved in electrical installations through a revision of the regulation on qualifications for electrical professionals. The authorisation system for electro-installers ceased in 2002, when the Right is in government. The registration of such activities in the Electricity Business Register, a register operated by the DSB, is currently required and is based on which activities are to be controlled and supervised. I agree with the Council of State that today's Fire and Explosion Protection Act provides municipalities with good sanctions, but I may be able to ask if it can be used somewhat more frequently, while in serious cases ordinary criminal law could also apply. The majority of the Committee, the government parties and the Progress Party, believe that the Council of State's presentation in the letter fully respects – and almost certainly so – what is proposed by the Right. We therefore believe that the right thing here will be that the proposal by the representatives of the Right is annexed to the Minutes, because I think we are going to work offensively to prevent residential fires in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1363	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work on this matter and join in the views he has just expressed. Prevention of fire is very important. Fires have serious consequences for those to whom they apply, often with tragic results, and this is also causing considerable costs to the individual, and not least to society and the insurance industry. Therefore, this initiative to have a greater focus on fires in dwellings is a good measure. So we're going to get back to the content. We believe that information and prevention measures will be crucial in this way. It's only when each of us has knowledge of what leads to fire, how we're going to protect ourselves against it, and that we're aware of the dangers, that we can really protect ourselves from fire. That is why I think the measures that the rapporteur mentioned here will be good. In addition, it is clear that there must also be a significant focus from the insurance industry on the individual policyholder and owner of the dwelling, for good information and good fire protection. We want to ask questions about the measures that have been put here. There will probably be good measures, but has the Right considered what this will result from costs and red tape for owners of dwellings, buyers and not least for the construction industry? I think this was a slightly backwards proposal to join a party like Right, and I want to ask questions about the consequences. I cannot see that this has been clarified in the proposal. For example, you pray. the government considers whether the supervision of electrical installations should be carried out more frequently than every 20 years. What does that mean – and how often? The size asks the government to assess whether dwellings that are sectioned into several units must be checked and approved upon completion. What does this mean for the rental market? The size requestes the government to consider possible arrangements for the recertification or removal of the authorisation of electrical installers and others with installation or oversight responsibilities for electrical installations. What will this entail for the installation industry? And the government is asked to carry out an independent evaluation of the competence of local electricity regulators in the field of electrical safety and fire prevention and to strengthen the control of the level of competence of the electro-electric industry. I think a lot of this is already taken care of. I know that this is an industry that has ongoing courses and professional updates. But what will be the extra cost of training and not having used one's working time on productive work? This may seem to be a proposal that has good intentions, but I believe that many of the proposals that have been put forward here are not sufficiently comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1378	I have to say that I notice that we are approaching the Advance Party and getting into government, given that we are now engaged in cost control and are counting on our own proposals. I am very pleased about that, and I am pleased that we are going to have a common view of the economic framework of the future policy. What I'm concerned about, is that the whole Storting is genuinely concerned with fire protection. In fact, the right-hand proposal – although some may not believe it – is designed in close contact with industry actors, not least those who believe that the control such as this is. DSB performs, not necessarily is as good as you can get the impression from the Council of State response. I'll take up our own suggestions, but to be a little pleasant, I'll turn the proposal related to the brochure into a transmission proposal. At the same time, I stress that designing a brochure has been done in quite a number of areas in terms of integration in Norway, without necessarily reaching the knowledge found in these brochures. So what it's really about is having a real information strategy. I must respectfully say that no matter how many languages you have translated a brochure, it does not mean that you have effectively informed people with a different ethnic or linguistic background. We know that from experience. But I'm going to re-do that proposal for a transmission proposal, and then the government might look at other measures to strengthen information activities. I would like to point out the proposals No. 4 and 5 in conjunction with proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The representative of Kielland Asmyhr thought things were in place, but that's exactly why we're promoting these proposals. A lot of us think I have had electrical supervision at home in my own home. I, like others, have believed that then those who checked it – on chords, via private actors – had carried out a full check and discovered all sorts of faults in the electrical system that could indicate that a fire could develop. We have documentation to show that very much of the electrical inspection has been checked out, e.g. does not detect obvious weaknesses in dimmers, downlights, etc. They are simply installed incorrectly and may present a high fire risk. We want an independent evaluation of this, simply because the work that is going on is done on chords. Some people even call themselves the electrical regulator, but they're a private actor. Now we have nothing against private operators, but this has been done in a way that simply has not checked the real risk that the electrical system can cause fire. There is a central element behind the proposals. So to this belief that DSB is really good in terms of fire protection. They may be, but there's a reason once again to ask for the evaluation that was to take place quickly after the fire in the Urtegate. It didn't happen quickly, because there was one person who got sick or quit the job. It says something about the fact that the DSB may not be so well staffed, when you are so dependent on one person to evaluate such a serious fire. I address our proposals, with the exception of the proposal on information activities, with a call to the government to see ways to use the brochure as an inspiration for informing citizens with a different language or ethnic background in an even more effective way than just having a brochure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1393	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, has addressed the proposals to which he referred and made proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1396	Very well has been said about both the proposal as a whole and the proposals in the proposal. It's interesting to see that now it's the Progress Party that's going to take care of the financial responsibility on the citizen's side. That promises good for some people at least – we'll see. There are two important things in this case that I want to address. One has been discussed by both the representative Octay Dahl and others, namely how fire protection is linked to citizens with minority backgrounds or immigrants, in the first phase when they get here. The first is that very many people come from open societies where living conditions are different from what we have here. Then there is a completely different type of fire protection required. The second is the understanding of the language of the information given to those who are coming, and how to take up the information. It was mentioned here that the government and relevant agencies have worked on this. There is information in different languages that has been sent to people with a minority background. In terms of information, it can always be better. A lot of people, both with a majority background and with a minority background, still think you're dying from the fire. You don't die of fire; you die long before the fire reaches you. You die of all the exhaust gases that are triggered immediately there is passage to fire. That's the phase when you see that something is wrong until you're reached by these exhaust gases, which are very important to save lives. It's very short. It's a very short time – there are seconds that separate you from life or death. That's the understanding that needs to be tapped into people with a majority background, and also into people with a minority background, where the threshold is a little higher to get information. So to the elderly. The elderly are a vulnerable group in terms of fire because they may need help to have effective fire protection in their homes in the form of smoke detectors, fire extinguishers and other measures – equipment needed for fire protection to be in place. In case it starts burning, it's important to evacuate these people. They need help to get out. These are the two things I thought were a little weak in the matter, and I hope that it will also be focused on it in our further work on fire protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1411	Now Akhtar Chaudhry was actually in what I wanted to say a little about. It's about our older people. Maybe we should have a suggestion about that particular group. This applies not only to our elderly, but also to those with mental retardation, to those with dementia, and also to those who are not necessarily older, but also to those with dementia, who have a municipal housing service and where the follow-up to fire safety is not present. The municipalities are not as good at it. This is something we've been told several times when we've traveled around, that in the case of the elderly, the demented and the mentally retarded, it's not good enough follow-up from the municipalities. The representative of Chaudhry was also in evacuation – that’s important, and also sweeping. Although there is some automation in it, there are many older people sitting in old houses with ovens and pipes that might have been much more cared for, but that's not so, and so we can get a fire. I am at least a little self-indulging in the fact that we should perhaps have a proposal that could have been backed up in this Document 8 from the Right, where we might have to impose much more on the municipalities to have a sort of action plan in the municipalities for these groups. There's a great fire hazard, and, as I said, we know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1420	The last thing Åse Michaelsen brought up is a very important point, something that more people have been about. It is stated in the letter from the Minister of Justice and Security to the Committee that one in the NOU from last year concludes that one believes there should be a national plan for upgrading what is called nursing homes – that is, it is completely age-dependent. We know that in many municipalities there are also very many younger recipients in such homes. This is often the case in moving quickly, which is the challenge in a critical situation. The report has been widely consulted and the consultation opinions are now available for evaluation in the ministry. I feel absolutely certain that the Council of State will take on board the commitment expressed here in relation to this group, and also see the importance of strengthening the supervision of asylum recipients and these housing complexes in which guest workers often live when they work here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1427	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1441	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1450	I am pleased that the draft representative looked at on the agenda the possibilities that the public has to share information among themselves in order to detect crime. We now have a lot of public agencies working within each of their areas, but that together can sit on information that is of interest to the police or the PST. The aim must therefore be to strike a balance between enabling important information to be shared and the protection of privacy. Now, when we're talking about public services and the information they're on, I have to make it clear that the obligation to pay is something that's high for me. People shouldn't have a general reason to be concerned about contacting public authorities. For a welfare society to work, it depends on trust between the user and the public. That's why I think we should be careful about entering too many open locks between the etats. That being said, there is a case where it is absolutely in the place that the information is shared. There are many examples of cross-sectoral cooperation being important to identify different types of crime. It may be about the exchange of information between Nav and UDI to ensure that social security offences are not abused, or it may be about information that may be necessary for the PST to prevent terrorism. This topic has been no less topical since July 22nd, and there is something that is also commented on by the Gjørv Commission. They say that if a public agency suspects terrorist planning, he should be able to notify the PST. This is something that it's easy to say in agreement. But there will be a need for a clear and well-thought-out framework. It is important to be able to distinguish between different types of cases. Where's the threshold going? Who's to notify? And for how long can the information be shared? There are a lot of questions that you can and must ask yourself. It is therefore important that we move forward in the right way when we now look at how we can make it easier to detect crime. We have to make sure that the thresholds are not too low for non-serious crime. We're going to be a society that fends for the public's obligations and that can distinguish between the need for information sharing and the seriousness of crime. Then we're all a few that we need to take the necessary steps to make it easier to detect serious crime. I am therefore pleased that the government has set up a cross-ministerial group to look at this particular issue. It is right to wait to make concrete decisions until this work is completed and a recommendation is ready. I think it is good that the proposers have started a political debate on this also for the whole of the Storting, and then we have to make sure that the matter is followed up in concrete terms. I assume that the targeted and well-considered proposals will come back to Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1465	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his excellent work on the proposals and for the fact that, as a representative of the government parties, she is on the way to supporting the proposals and saying that this is something that the government will continue to work on. The aim of promoting the proposals of the Progress Party is, of course, that we are constantly seeing that the shoots between the agencies make it more difficult for the police and the prosecution authority to carry out the work they are set to do, namely to combat the crime that we all agree to fight. And, as it is certainly known to the rest of the members of the Judicial Committee, what is also requested and proposed in this proposal is something that the police point to when we're out visiting the police districts. They face too many constraints in their investigation in meeting with other public agencies, and there are also some new proposals in the debate so far. We need to get a better flow of information between the agencies on this kind of information. We can't let privacy and professional secrecy go so far that we get this kind of tight shot between the floors. Police access to public registers and documents needs to be facilitated. It is true that the criminal population is taking on ever new instruments, and we are also getting more and more international ramifications in terms of the crime in Norway. That is why the Progress Party has put forward three proposals in which, first of all, we are asking for legislative amendments, so that public bodies can exchange information where there is a suspicion of a criminal offence. It is clear that the police have to make visible why they are going into e.g. the register of driving licences. And then we propose in proposal No. 2 to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to ensure that the police have rapid access to information from the relevant public records when the police suspect that a criminal offence has been committed. So you have to have some cause for suspicion. But the time aspect is also incredibly important in investigating these kinds of issues. In proposal No 3 points out that we need the necessary legislative changes to ensure police security service access to information from the relevant public records when the PST records a case of a specific person. This is, of course, a topic that is becoming increasingly topical, and where PST's work is being hindered, but for the future should not be hindered by just shots between the levels. And if there's a body that has good experience and systematics in dealing with confidentiality-related information, it's the police, the police security service, and the prosecution authority. So here's probably not much to worry about in that way. Then I want to point out two incubators in the setting. The first is that the Progress Party should definitely be on the Right's note and also on the Right's proposal, No. 4th@item: inlistbox I refer to the three proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1484	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1487	Then I am grateful for the support for the proposal from the Right and take it up, so that it is possible to support it afterwards. I'll be very short. I refer mainly to the statements made by the rapporteur and our reasons for not supporting the proposals as they stand. They have good intentions, but in the Right's opinion they're too far worded and can hit a lot. We meet thoroughly investigated issues from the government on these issues to be sure that we have a law that is both up-to-date and at the same time takes due account of necessary privacy considerations. The reason why we take up our proposal, which is then supported here today, is that when we dealt with the Police Register Act, the Stortinget agreed that a reasonable balance had been found between privacy considerations and the need to combat crime effectively. But the effects you have seen of some proposals for regulations based on what was the Storting consensus are a little bit away. Non-sensitive information — e.g. The opportunity Kripos has to apply in passports – we believe that you should immediately have the opportunity to apply in. We believe – based on the debate we had in Stortinget at the time, and signals that are also given in the media before and after the law of, for example. some of the representatives of the Workers' Party – that the regulation and the way in which it is designed are not in agreement with the Stortinget in due time. As I said, I mention our proposal and also hope that several parties can support that proposal so that the police will have the opportunity to apply for non-sensitive information.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1498	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1501	Initially, I note that the obligation of professional secrecy for certain types of information is a fundamental prerequisite for trust between the administration and the individual. However, professional secrecy is not absolute. There are many bases for providing silent information to other actors where necessary. I mention the administrative law § 13b, first paragraph, no. 5 and No 6th@item: inlistbox No. 5 provides that an administrative body may provide other administrative bodies with information on the relations of a person with the body on decisions taken and otherwise the information necessary to facilitate the tasks of the governing body by law or by instructions. For example, the last option will be: could enable the Labour Inspectorate to exchange information with the tax authorities and Nav in order to combat undeclared work. No. 6 opens up, under certain conditions, information on offences to the prosecution authority or control authorities. Thus, there are already extensive opportunities to exchange information on offences within the framework of the applicable law. With regard to the question of the possible extension of the possibilities for exchange of information, this requires further investigation. In the light of the Government’s prevention strategy, the Government’s strategy for prevention: Community — Security — Cohesion, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to review the information and professional secrecy legislation. The aim is to ensure a more effective exchange of information between departments in serious cases. Currently, the group awaits a monitoring of practice. This work is carried out by NOVA under the direction of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I find it natural to await this screening before any action is considered. In some cases, it will be important for the investigation of offences that the police can obtain information from different administrative registers, but legislation limits access to personal data for purposes other than those for which they have been obtained. Chapter 16 of the Criminal Procedures Act provides for the seizure or disclosure of information, but the conditions imply that this is a rather cumbersome procedure. Moreover, the rules do not cover the need for information on prevention issues. Nor will these rules be specifically adapted to situations where the police themselves hold the information, as is the situation for the passport register. The administrative records legislation will therefore be reviewed. The Ministry is in the interview with a consultation note with proposals for changes to the passport law. The proposal will allow the police to use information from the passport register in a number of situations where the identity of a person needs to be clarified, and in the prevention and investigation of criminal offences of a certain seriousness. Furthermore, we have addressed the need for amendments to the rules on driving licence information. The aim is always a regulation that balances the interests of privacy and the effective fight against crime. The July 22 Commission has recommended that the rules on taushets in the legislation be harmonised with the rules on the operation of the PST, so that the PST can access relevant information from other departments in cases where the service is allowed to register information or establish a case. The Commission further states that the rules of silence should not prevent other public agencies from tipping the PST, if they perceive that there is reason to examine whether terrorist planning is taking place. I will follow up this recommendation in cooperation with other government councils. The work on amendments to the passport law includes extended access to the use of data from the passport register, including for the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1515	Just a brief question of clarification: do I correctly understand the Council of State, that she has arranged for Kripos to get back the search opportunity they had before the regulation of police records was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1520	If I understand the representative correctly, we have made it clear, in the light of the decision taken by the Data Protection Authority on how to practice the use of this register, that there was insufficient legal basis in today's legislation. That's what we're now considering, and we're coming back with suggestions for a very clear warrant to be able to restore that search capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1526	When will such a permit be put in place, so that we get back the opportunity we had before the regulation was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1531	As I said, we are fully inquired about the letter of consultation and are going to send it out to the hearing with a view to implementing the legislative change as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1536	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1552	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1561	Progress party representatives Fredriksen, Amundsen, Korsberg and Kielland Asmyhr are promoting representative proposals that the government be asked to start immediate work on hiring helicopters to increase helicopter preparedness for the rescue service. So that's said right away, and with reference to the Council's letter to the Committee, the Ministry is just assessing the need to do so. The primary public resource of the rescue services, the Sea King helicopters, must operate smoothly on a sea-going basis so that they can actively fulfil their function until they are replaced by new rescue helicopters. They also work well. The Committee gives unanimous and well-deserved honor and thanks to all those who contribute to the good results of the Sea King fleet and the rescue services in general. Very systematic work of very high quality is carried out to optimise the upgrade and maintenance of helicopters. I could see how thoroughly and highly competent a person goes to work for the Sea King fleet to function optimally, when I, together with a couple of colleagues, visited AIM Norway, formerly the main Air Force workshop, at Kjeller. The Committee further states in its recommendation that the quality of the rescue helicopter service is among the best in the world. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that new, top modern helicopters speckled with the latest of technology will provide a better starting point for the service. We all agree on that. Unfortunately, the process of generating new helicopters is delayed, but now, in its letter to the Committee, the Council of State is saying that the conclusion of a contract is planned this year. That's good. In addition to the Sea King primary resource, the Main Rescue Center is deploying alternative helicopter resources, civilians as military personnel, and these are thus to be considered as part of our overall helicopter preparedness, based on the cooperative principle. It uses resources other than Sea King today, so there's no doubt about it. The proposers will bring forward the so-called ‘Kamaro’ event last October. And the Council of State says in the letter to the Committee that it cannot be excluded that challenges may arise when the Sea King helicopter has been removed from standby and unforeseen events can put additional helicopters out of operation for a shorter or longer period. The situation is closely followed, and the department looks – as I said at the outset – at the possibility of further reinforcement of helicopter preparedness. Renting of private helicopters is just one of the options under consideration here. The rescue service has been significantly strengthened in recent years. The response time is now down in 15 minutes, and the missions are many more than before. Security's getting better, too, because now there's always a doctor on all bases. If rentals are involved, the primary resource needs to be conserved. For the current year, it is known to have granted 340 million. kr extra to modernise the Sea King fleet. I feel absolutely sure, especially after having been to Kjeller, that that money will be used very well. We have a good helicopter service gathered today, but with new helicopters we'll be able – and we're going to, seasily – to get even better. We have the very best assumptions for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1582	The situation surrounding the Sea King helicopters and the renewal of the life-helicopter fleet has been the subject of the Storting for a long time. Here it must be right to say that the government has not worked high. That's why we've come into the situation that we've now come into, and that this proposal from the Progress Party addresses, the fact that the Sea King helicopter has now reached retirement age and has therefore acquired characteristics that many who have reached retirement age get. It is clear that good maintenance – and there I have great faith in those who operate maintenance, and that we have good systems on it – is not enough. As more and more maintenance is required, it means that several of the helicopters have to be on the ground, and this will help to reduce standby. We've seen that we can't have enough confidence in this resource in many crisis situations. What we need to be aware of is that the rescue helicopter resource is of crucial importance to large parts of the country, especially northwards, and to significant parts of Norwegian business and Norway’s financial resources. We all know what resources we have on the base, what importance fisheries have, and not least what international shipping is on our coast. Therefore, the Storting should be able to gather more quickly about renewing the fleet, but, until that happens, not least about establishing leased-in capacities that allow us to know that the business community and the population northwards and along the coast can be confident that we can deliver the service provided. When the rapporteur says that we have granted 340 million for the current year. kr for maintenance, a question may be asked as to what that sum, or parts thereof, could have resulted in increased contracted capacity. For this reason, the Progress Party has promoted this proposal to start immediate work with a view to hiring private helicopters to raise helicopter standby to the rescue services. I find it sad that the Storting cannot join this proposal. It is positive that the Right does so, but this should be a proposal that the Storting could agree on. That is why I take up again the proposal that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1598	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1601	I'll be brief, for this case we've discussed so many times, and we all agree that it really doesn't hold. Sea King is a kind of "queen of the air," someone has said. In that case it is either Queen Beatrix, who luckily already goes off, or Queen Elizabeth, who soon goes off. I think one should follow Beatrix’s example also in the case of rescue helicopters, for one thing is what has come out publicly, but we have been in contact with quite a few people who have told us how it has been several times to go wrong. If there's something we can't afford, having a standby not least along the coast and along our entire long-range country is based on whether or not coincidences, so at least it's very close to a serious accident. I would like to see the State Council that will stand here in Stortinget and afterwards see that you did not have a sufficient state rescue helicopter readiness. Then it is right that you have a cooperative principle, and it works well – you should praise those who should be praised. But I think, like Kielland Asmyhr, that it would be best to vote in favour of this proposal by the Progress Party and the Right today, just to get more pressure on us to get on the track and be sure that we have the most secure preparedness possible. We have a good preparedness today, but it is dangerous to have disastrous consequences if we continue this trend. It is also particularly close to boasting that you are using approx. 300 million. kr to keep these ancient helicopters in the air. It is described as loose parts flying in the same direction. It's about, when we talk about modernisation, getting spare parts that are practically non-existent. There must be some kind of Reodor Felgen person that's gonna get the helicopters in the air. I honestly think that in the world's richest country, to use a slightly worn-out expression, it doesn't last. I'll finish there -- we've talked about this a lot. But it's a paradox that in this country we can't get rescue helicopters in place within a reasonable amount of time, we can't get emergency nets in place, and we have ICT problems in the police. If that's what we have enough of, it's money, but we can't plan and dimension ourselves to solutions to what's about preparedness. So I urge the government parties once again to consider whether they can vote in favour of the Right and the Advance Party's proposal in this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1614	In Norway, preparedness has recently been put to different tests. Our rescue service consists of a cooperative between public agencies, voluntary relief organisations and private companies that have appropriate facilities for auxiliary service purposes. That's good, because we need all the resources deployed to ensure good preparedness. Good helicopter preparedness in crisis situations can be crucial if we are able to save lives or not. As others have experienced, it could have really gone wrong in the fall when the fishing boat Kamaro was in a rough weather. Life could have been lost if it had not been for private helicopters in the oil industry to rescue the fishing boat. In its reply to the Justice Committee, the Council of State states that one will consider whether private helicopters can be one of the possibilities of further reinforcements of the rescue helicopter service. But I have to say that last autumn's event clearly shows that better cooperation with just private means that life is saved. It is therefore unintelligible that the government believes this needs to be further assessed. A week ago, I sat on the plane next to one of the Kamaro crew, a great youth from my own municipality, Averøy. We got a good talk, where the crash was of course also mentioned. For me, it's a paradox that it's not the government's profit that this boy is living today. It should be a similar great paradox for the government. Helicopter readiness has been the subject of debate in Stortinget for a very long time. We have long known that it needs to be strengthened and improved. It is therefore a paradox that the government has not been able to provide new rescue helicopters faster than is now the plan. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the offshore installations on Norwegian pedestals have significantly better area preparedness than the state has. The private rescue helicopters also have much better equipment, which means that they deal with storms and extreme conditions much better than the state helicopters do. They therefore have very important competences, from which the State should benefit. It is so unfortunate that the government parties are voting against the proposal, which could help save lives. In this case, we cannot be after-clock. Fortunately, it went well last autumn. Now we have to make sure that it goes well next time the accident is out too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1629	I would like to begin by stating that it is very important for the government that the quality of the rescue helicopter service should continue to be good. The government therefore follows the situation with today's Sea King helicopters very carefully. As I have said in several contexts, the Norwegian rescue service model is based on a cooperative principle. This means that all resources in Norway — state, county, municipal, private and voluntary — that are suitable for emergency operations to save lives should be mobilised in a capacity for rescue. The need for rescue helicopter services has therefore been covered throughout all years by the resources available to the Main Rescue Centre at all times. This includes, inter alia: The Sea King helicopters, which are a dedicated public primary resource in this area. However, while the Sea King helicopters are considered to be part of our overall helicopter preparedness together with alternative helicopter resources, it is very important that the public primary resource is well-functioning and in good condition. Of course, I fully agree with that. Sea King is still a good rescue helicopter readiness with a high standby rate and a short response time. It is also such that the picture related to operating costs is nuanced. The government has significantly strengthened the rescue helicopter service since 2005, by introducing a full bystander with doctors on all bases. It is now operated with a response time of approx. 15 minutes. The government also established a new rescue helicopter base on Florø in 2009. This has increased operating costs, but has also improved safety for the Norwegian population. In addition, the government has strengthened the operational budgets for the maintenance of rescue helicopters in recent years to ensure that the Sea King fleet is properly operated until the new rescue helicopters are in place. Furthermore, the Sea King fleet has had a significant increase in the number of orders, from approx. 1 000 missions per year in 2004–2005 to approximately 1 000 missions per year. 1,500 missions in the last years. This obviously means that the number of flight hours has increased, which in turn leads to increased costs. Despite the fact that Sea King maintains a high level of preparedness, there are challenges associated with the fact that these machines have been in long and faithful service. The Ministry of Justice and Defence, in cooperation with the Defence Department, continuously assesses the need for measures to ensure good rescue helicopter preparedness. This means that we assess all the real opportunities for further reinforcements, including the rental of private helicopters. As important as assessing alternative helicopter resources, it is to ensure the continued operation of the Sea King fleet. Measures to maintain sea King preparedness until 2020 are part of Prop. 146 S for 2010–2011, Acquisition of new rescue helicopters, etc. for the period 2013 to 2020, and the corresponding Innst. 82 S for 2011-2012. The measures highlighted in the proposal have primarily improved access to spare parts and components, the replacement of ageing parts and some modernisation of the Sea King fleet to the extent that it harmonises with technological and other developments. This shall ensure the effectiveness of the rescue operations and maintain the safety of the emergency and rescue personnel themselves. The framework for the operation of the rescue helicopter service was therefore reinforced by 340 million. kr in the year in order to ensure the prompt implementation of these measures. Although the rescue helicopter is good today and Sea King has been a very reliable machine, we can get even better in this area. We will be when the new rescue helicopters are in place. The tendering procedure for the acquisition of new life-saving helicopters, as you are familiar with, is well under way. The offers made in December last year are open, and the NAWSARH project is now reviewing all the offers. There is still work to be done before the new helicopter supplier is in place, but we are planning to sign a contract during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1648	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1651	In any case, it will take a long time before the new rescue helicopters are in place, and we also hope that the agreement will be signed during this year, which is not too early. This is a matter that very many people across the country and along the coast are concerned about. In the case of ordinary people who are concerned about their neighbors who have their daily work either on an oil platform, on the sea, fishing or in short sea shipping, what signal will the Council of State send to these people? Can our residents be sure that the rescue helicopter service will reach when needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1659	I am pleased that the Norwegian rescue service model can be described as perhaps the best in the world. We have resources every day that work together to ensure that we make a good effort to save lives. Of course, this includes a good rescue helicopter service. That is why I am so concerned to ensure that it is also best every day in the years we are now waiting to renew this fleet. We will ensure this both by keeping the current Sea King fleet as high as possible, and by choosing – if necessary – other options to ensure that the service is good, for example, as I also mentioned, an opening to hire private solutions. That's a solution we have today, for example. used on Svalbard. I am primarily concerned with ensuring the best possible rescue helicopter service that is included as an important part of our overall emergency response.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1666	Since, hopefully, there is a time when we are going to ask critical questions again about rescue helicopters, I want to ask questions about the Council of State since we last addressed the question, is familiar with any information that might indicate that the conclusion of the contract does not take place in 2013, and that it might be postponed again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1671	I have said that before, and I say it again, that in large, complicated projects you should not be sloppy, but should be more concerned about driving the project forward, so that you keep the schedule that has been set. With the offers that have now come in, and they are also, as I mentioned, open, we are working on a bomb to ensure that this contract is concluded as planned during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1676	Then I'm just going to rephrase the question: Is the Council familiar with or not familiar with any new information since we dealt with the last question, which may lead to a postponement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1681	For me, the aim has been to ensure the signing of the contract during the current year. Since I do not remember the detailed discussion we had last had in this room about this, I am not sure that I fully understand the scope of the question asked by the representative, Oktay Dahl. But I have also received a written question, which I will of course answer, where I will also try to explain in detail what this picture looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1686	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1702	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1711	An overall committee, all outside the Progress Party, indicates that recent years the threat images and trend analyses of the PST show that the phenomenon called solo terrorism has still become a more prominent part of the threat assessment. We saw that last night, when the common threat picture of the PST, the E-Service and the National Safety Authority was presented. The majority of the Committee also points out that what was called the 22nd of July Committee at Stortinget, which gave a position addressed at Stortinget at the beginning of March last year, was concerned with being able to have legislation to prevent the preparation of terrorist acts, even if there is only one perpetrator inside the picture, and not a network or a federation. We point out that it was said in the recommendation of that committee that the consultation note on a change in legislation announced by the Ministry to be sent out in the first six months of last year. The Progress Party also took part in the session of the 22nd July Committee, and that we should address the Solotterrorist issue and proceed with the first consultation case. The parties to the Government indicate that a hearing is necessary. The hearing note from the government was sent out last summer. Such consultation is necessary in order to provide a good basis for decision-making for law-makers and to provide a basis for a new, important law to enable those who are to interpret the law later to have a good understanding of it, which will lie in such consultation and treatment. This is in line with normal legal processes. The progress in the matter has also been good. So this was sent to the hearing last summer. The hearing period was slightly longer than usual, because it was summer, but it was probably November 1st in the autumn. The government has announced that it will now make proposals to the Storting on this, so that we have the opportunity to deal with it before the Stortinget takes a summer vacation. Now the Progress Party wants us to deal with these legislative proposals over the table, directly here in the Chamber, regardless of the hearing, the legislative process and the work that the Ministry is now doing, and that a total of 22 July Committee on the Stortinget has ordered. The progress party wants to skip that phase. I am so much more pleased with the approach taken by the Chairman of the Committee of the Progressive Party and by Mr Per Sandberg, who spokesperson on justice in the evening of 13 July last year. There he warned against these socio-terrorism proposals and characterized them in the direction that it is impossible to prove thoughts. And he said, ‘PST already has an exceptional authority to investigate individual individuals.’ The Progress Party and Sandberg were then praised for their leadership position in Dagbladet under the title ‘Tank Police’ to believe that the PST already had good tools. Without prejudice to the fact that the Progress Party and Sandberg were totally mistaken when – nor was it fixed in July last year – it seems a little confusing that six months later, we are proposing that we should immediately adopt – above the table and without a legal representative – the same proposals to which strong scepticism was expressed in July. The fact that the Progress Party wants to jump over the consultation round and the legislative work that is now being done in a thorough and correct manner, and that all the other parties want us to do before we go into the Grottinget, shows at least that there is a broad consensus that the proposals that are being made to deal with enlargement should come about. It will be my hope – I also hope that everyone else will agree – that we can discuss and adopt them in the first six months, so that they will be in place within a reasonable time, since we decided to start this work and ordered it from the 22nd July Committee at the beginning of March last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1733	Yes, it's very good if we can deal with this before the summer, because it's actually the time aspect that matters to us. It's been over a year and a half since the terrorist action that so tragically hit the government quarter and Utøya. This is a long time. It will also take at least six months before we adopt new provisions, if the government's progress plan is to be followed as the representative of Bohemia has now confirmed that we might be able to do before summer. I would like to remind you a little bit that matters are about e.g. The closure of Grubbegata and rescue helicopters, which we've just had for debate, often takes time, and is that something we don't have, it's time to lose. I have also recorded that despite the fact that all relevant information is available, and that all the arguments in this debate have been put forward – for consultation opinions are not completely subject to professional secrecy – and much of this has been discussed in public space, we believe that this is a little time-consuming. I am fully aware that the representatives of the red-green parties have a different dialogue with the departments and can get their information a little different and quite quickly compared to the others. I would also say about time: Promise has no retrospective power, and there is no one who knows what can happen tomorrow. I address the proposal we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1748	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1751	This is going to be more like a explanation of vote on the Right. The right has a great deal of understanding, respect and sympathy for the input of the proposers to raise this important issue. However, when the right in this round does not vote in favour of the proposal we are dealing with, the reason – and as we also put it in the note – is that this is an important issue, with many sides, and that we may be able to bring in several elements of an overall approach, which is thoroughly prepared, so that we can address the security and preparedness of the nation against terrorist attacks in a comprehensive way. We are waiting – in the same way as the proposer – with great impatience for the further work of the government, and then we are going to deal with the matter there. That's the background for the Right approach to dealing with the matter that's on the table here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1760	I'm gonna be very short. Today, the majority is considering a proposal for reinforced criminal rules for terrorist planning and training. A joint committee seems to share the view that there is a need for legislative changes in this area, and I agree with that. However, such rules must be the result of thorough proceedings, and the Ministry of Justice will therefore present during the spring a legislative proposal on criminal liability for acts of terrorism, with a view to bringing about preparations by terrorists who operate alone. This work is based on the proposals made by the PST in letter of 1 November 2011 and sent to the hearing on 12 July last year. We have received many good input from the hearing bodies, and a thorough and good consultation provides a good basis for the legislative proposal to be as balanced and effective as possible. I therefore believe that legislative changes in this area should be subject to the proposals of the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1769	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1784	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1798	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1804	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1812	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting on the purchasing power adjustment of cash support and child benefit in relation to the cost level of the country of residence, during the spring period of 2013.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1826	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1843	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to organise the parental leave scheme so that the child does not lose time with the family by ensuring that the mother or father is able to transfer leave allowances to the partner in cases where they themselves do not have the opportunity to withdraw the allowance.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1857	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1874	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1884	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a stepping-up plan for the protection of the family.’ The voting boards showed that 100 votes were cast against and 9 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.07.48]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1896	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1901	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1906	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1922	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the strengthening of family protection in the years to come’. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1944	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2 by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Swedish Commission to promote changes in the adoption legislation that will allow for sterilisation and death after a break in life, when this is best for the child.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e1968	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken on specific measures against surrogati following the expiry of the temporary law.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to change the deadline for the transfer of parents to children in Norway born of surrogate mother abroad until 1 October 2013.’ The Christian People's Party has warned that they subsidiaryly support the proposals after their own proposal has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2055	It is contested through § 1 to and including § 5. We have been signaled that it would be unanimously adopted, but the President then proposes, since some have risen, that we use the voting facility to register the votes correctly. Votation: The Committee's suspension of Section 1 through Section 5 was endorsed by 101 to 6 votes. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.12.03]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2068	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2079	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2099	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2107	In the course of the debate, a total of six proposals have been put forward by the representative, André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Right. Proposal No. 1, from the Right, has been converted into a transmission proposal and will be changed in line with it. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is recommended to assess how relevant information on fire-related matters, rights and obligations, etc. may be published in more languages than Norwegian, and distributed to workers/inhabitants.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2122	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 2 to 6, from the right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether the supervision of electrical installations should be carried out more frequently than every 20 years. A specific assessment should be made of dwellings that are either reconstructed and subdivided into several sections or are intended for temporary housing.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether dwellings that are sectioned into several units must be checked and approved upon completion.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider possible arrangements for the recertification or removal of the authorisation of electrical installers and others with responsibility for installation or supervision of electrical installations.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an independent evaluation of the competence of local electricity regulators in the field of electrical safety and fire prevention, and to strengthen the control of the level of competence of the electric industry in this respect.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the experience gained from the application of penalties for breaches of the law and to assess the need for further sanctions in the event of serious infringements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2164	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 4, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative proposals to allow public bodies to exchange information where there is a suspicion of a criminal offence.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds; ‘The government is asking the government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the police have access to information from current public records promptly when the police suspect that a criminal offence has been committed.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to ensure that the PST access to information from the relevant public registers when the PST records the case of a specific person.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2191	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2196	It's still possible to vote. The voting boards showed that 82 votes were cast against and 27 votes in favour of the proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15-13.57]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2205	Who said he was wrong? Then we're going to have this registered. The representative, Reitten, should then probably have voted against it – that is correct. So this is going to be 26 and 83. That means that the proposals have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2214	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative changes to ensure police access to non-sensitive information from public records in the event of a suspicion of serious crime.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2247	During the debate Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting immediate work to be undertaken by the government in order to hire private helicopters to raise helicopter standby to the rescue services.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2260	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2277	During the debate, Åse Michaelsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 22 May 1902 No. 10 The third paragraph of § 147a is replaced by the following: The person planning or preparing a terrorist act referred to in the first subparagraph is punished by imprisonment for up to 12 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2312	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2456	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e2466	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e4222	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e4232	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-19.ana.ud1166e4292	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
