ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e67	The called alternate from the West-Agder County, Eivind Saga, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Are Health on welfare leave from 28 May to 30 May from the Høres Storingsgruppe on sick leave for the representative Øyvind Halleraker from 28 May until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Anita OrlundFor Hordaland County: Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e106	Anita Orlund and Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that the Storting meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e122	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and allocated to the groups as follows: 35 minutes working party, 20 minutes progress party, 15 minutes right, 5 minutes socialist left party, 5 minutes centre party, 5 minutes Christian People's Party, 5 minutes left. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e131	Often things are perceived as important only when there is great political disagreement and conflict about them. However, I would say that the privacy notice is one of the most important documents that Stortinget gets presented in this session, although there is a low level of conflict. There is a lot we agree on – I think that is a strength for privacy work. We see this big message as an important opportunity to discuss more closely the worrying developments that may weaken privacy and measures that can be taken to improve data security and the processing of personal data. Unfortunately, when new technologies are put in place or measures involving the processing of personal data are put in place, it is rare for privacy considerations to be in the centre. One reason for this is that drivers of new technologies, those who want to record information, are often practical sector interests, which naturally see their own needs, but do not take into account the fact that other sectors do the same. Thus, the number of registrations in all life's relationships can ultimately be overwhelming, and then it must be a political task to set limits. The notification is also a reporting to the Stortinget on which proposals by the Privacy Commission have been followed up or intended to follow up. The government has chosen a slightly more general approach than the Commission’s review of the area of data protection and will rather talk about general data protection principles, objectives and measures that can adapt and apply to data protection issues regardless of the area of society. It is an understandable systematic if implemented consistently. A single committee, with slightly different formulations, has gone into the process of legislating data protection. It's joyous, and hopefully it'll be followed up by a major review of the place of human rights in the Constitution. But it is important that fundamental law is given something more than a symbolic meaning, it should also have material significance. Privacy interests could be balanced against other legal standards of the same height of step, e.g.: the balance between the Basic Law § 100 on freedom of expression, as is also the systematic approach in the European Convention on Human Rights, where the protection of privacy and freedom of expression has been incorporated as Articles 8 and 10 respectively. The Committee has noted with satisfaction that the Government refers to the Commission’s proposal to restrict the availability of equality data. I'm probably going to refrain from thinking too strongly about who was the perpetrators of this case, because there was a long time to defend putting people's personal financial information into an entertainment context – also an explicit view from the government. But we can see that there has been a reasonable tightening of the availability here, which also takes better care of privacy. The Committee has noted that there have been clarifications on the transparency of the employer’s e-mail. We have also noticed that there has been a right of reservation for access to the electronic patient record across the institutions, and access to the access log was incorporated into the Health Register Act on 19 June 2009. The EU is currently examining new rules on personal data and it is expected that new provisions will have an impact on Norwegian data protection legislation. That means that the message is pending. It will await legal developments in the EU before updating the Data Protection Act itself, and we take note of it. We have also noticed on the plus side that with regard to the question of central student registers, the work has not been completed completely, but we are at least looking forward to the conclusion with reasonable assurance that the student data is reserved for the use of student data, and assumes that student and student information is managed without obligation of disclosure to outsiders, be curious or business. I have now explained what is the common point of view of the Committee, and I am going to focus a little on the pages which have been particularly elaborated on the Right, and which have, of course, also been endorsed by an overall opposition and, in some cases, by the entire Committee. Much of the privacy debate is about what threshold we accept for registration. This means that registration must be justified for a legal purpose. Sectoral organisations in the country mean that there are far more bodies that will at all times argue for more registration of personal data for their purposes than those bodies — in practice often only the Data Protection Authority — which are calling for alternatives, which warn against purpose-sliding, which are critical to the interconnection of existing registers, and which constitute a moderating voice in the choir of demands for more information about citizens. A great deal of sectoral legislation shows that sectoral bodies themselves are unable to balance privacy considerations with alleged benefits. I believe it should be considered whether the Ministry of Justice and Defence should not have the final responsibility for promoting laws initiated by the Ministry of Sectoral Affairs, where data protection concerns are opposed to the practical benefits that justify interference with privacy. An example of a dilemma between sectoral legislation and this general communication, where there is a broad consensus, is that while we have been working on the communication in the committee, two laws have been introduced that imply dilemmas in terms of privacy. I am thinking about the eco-nomy law and the law on changes in the law on popular protection, which dealt with the particular abuse of welfare schemes, which nobody is against, in and out. If you read those laws, you can see that they have no convincing balance or discussion of privacy considerations. There's the utility, the control options, that have the sole sole right. In the right, it is important to make a careful balance between privacy considerations and the need to identify and prevent social security abuse. There are, in particular, proposals in different contexts concerning the interconnection of registers which may raise this issue. One of the principles of privacy is that the processing of personal data is primarily based on voluntary, explicit and informed consent. In cases where it is impracticable or impracticable, there must be another legal basis. We believe it is essential that the Ministry should take sufficient account of data protection through the drafting of regulations, and we will therefore follow closely all the proposals that come under the specific legislation. Collected mass registers in other countries have also opened up unspecified searches for population categories where the individual is assigned a score ranked by an assumed normal behaviour, after which individuals reaching out are subject to specific control. Administrative experts have pointed out that such a intelligence analysis directed unspecifically at their own citizens without any specific suspicion, and apart from the peculiarity that exists to protect the security of the State, etc., violates the principle of information and public access to documents. The right would stress that there is a legislative responsibility at any time to assess the spread of such methods and that, under the principle of legality, such practices as described above will always require clear legislation. The need to control generous welfare systems in other countries has justified analytical and intelligence activities aimed at own citizens – both without concrete suspicion and with anonymous tips as the sole basis. The question is, will we bring society forward in this direction? But there are alternatives. Among other things, you can say that if you receive a benefit from the public, you have also signed that you must find yourself in – at least consent as a condition for the benefit – being checked for the information you have provided. You have to be aware of the information you have given, and you have to be aware in advance that it is part of the conditions for obtaining the benefit. Such clarification will, in fact, also prevent – and that is what we politicians are very concerned about – temptations and violations of the principles of receiving the benefits. It's a much better and more gentle control regime than overshadowing the users in retrospect with the technical possibilities that no one could predict they actually had. Two important principles apply to the processing of personal data. It's purposefulness and proportionality. In case of interconnection of registers, data collected for other purposes will be used for control purposes, which may be of real concern. At the same time, it is not unreasonable that public authorities have the opportunity to check real and actual information when a person is applying for a benefit, which I was in the business of. Furthermore, the Data Protection Act does not allow data to be stored longer than is necessary to implement the purpose of the processing. Often it is argued that you want to keep the information because they might be useful later, but you have no idea what the information should be used for. In addition to the fact that the absence of deletion would normally be a violation of the Data Protection Act, it also increases the risk that the data may be used for other purposes that are incompatible with the original. Also, inaction — first of all not to erase when the purpose is fulfilled or lost — is enough to violate a number of provisions of the Data Protection Act, and we must admit that the risk of discovery is relatively limited. Therefore, knowledge of the principles is essential for all controllers. Together with the public's right of access to what is stored and the possibilities for deletion that exist, they are very important. If the information is not deleted, it must at least be possible to correct incorrect information. We tend to treat data protection issues only as one aspect of data security, but let it be noted that the use of personal data by the public sector in manual records or paper registers in some contexts has also been highly risky. There are questions about discussing personal data much more than just related to data solutions. That is why we had also imagined that what is called proportionality principles in other countries had been legislated to a greater extent and that some administrative lawyers in Norway have tried to develop theories on. In short, there should always be a reasonable relationship between objectives and means. A number of requirements shall be imposed on the road in order to consider the principle to be satisfactory. Firstly, the interventions undertaken must satisfy the requirement of suitability. It is in order to ensure that the interventions taken to achieve the stated social objectives correspond to their importance. There is no reason for anyone to tolerate a lower level of privacy, without a significant achievement on the part of society. Thus, a specific assessment of the appropriateness of the intervention is required in relation to the importance of the intervention. In the case-law of the European Court of Justice after the millennium, the criterion of appropriateness has been used to discuss the suitability of the instrument. The fact that the requirement of proportionality must be comprehensive is formulated by the Court of Justice as follows: ‘If there is a possibility to choose between several appropriate measures, the least invasive means shall be chosen and the intervention shall ultimately not appear disproportionate in relation to the intended purposes.’;» The requirement of necessity is an integrated principle in the processing basis of the Data Protection Act. The necessity requirement is one of three sub-principles in order to meet a more overall proportionality requirement. Then it is important to be clear that this principle of proportionality applies not only in the field of data protection but should also be an integral part of the whole foundation on which administrative law is based. For this, an important principle is to have an impact on interventions other than the recording of people’s information. In some respects, we wanted the message to be more profound. Among other things, the opposition would point out that the notification should have discussed the re-use issue more thoroughly. A Joint Committee has also pointed out that the basic principle for the storage of information which may be linked to individuals is a restriction on the purpose of the registration. Therefore, the re-use of information is initially the same as the use of information beyond the normal limits imposed by the protection of privacy. It is therefore necessary to clarify the basis on which this should be permitted. The obligation to assess the impact of data protection on individuals applies equally, whether in the case of primary or re-use of data. So let me end by addressing the proposal where we ask the government to determine what implications it has had, that you have had the FRA Act in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e185	The representative Michael Tetzschner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e188	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for the presentation of the majority's views in the Committee. We live at a time when processing and exchanging personal data is in a revolution through the digitised world. More and more of what we give of personal data happens online, and that's what we want. It helps to simplify general government and to provide better and more accessible services to citizens. And that's good! The government also has the project Online with the inhabitants who go that way. But it also gives us some challenges to make this a safe system. We must be sure that personal data – whether it is in my medical records, or it is in the online bank – does not go astray. The cancellation message, Report. St. 11 on privacy, based on the report Individual and privacy. Privacy in the digital society, developed by the Privacy Commission in 2009 and included in NOU 2009: 1. The Data Protection Commission called for a basis for better data protection in the new era, and that is what this big message does to do by looking at how, in today’s data protection legislation, we have a space for action to make privacy in the best interests of society, of citizens and of those who handle data protection legislation. When we discuss privacy, there are demanding balances that need to be taken. Privacy often needs to be focused on other important societal interests. I remember when we discussed the extent of DNA storage in the Justice Committee in the last big period. Many innocent people's DNA is stored so that one day we'll be able to use the collected material to take a rapist. International data protection legislation is being amended. The Communication therefore naturally focuses enough on providing advice in cross-sectoral areas of current data protection legislation. This is also done in this way because the government sees it as useful to see the whole, when looking at the privacy challenges. The changes taking place internationally must be part of Norway, and of course the government will work for it, including in the case of the United Kingdom. within any new European Data Protection Supervisor. It will also participate, where appropriate, in the decision-making processes of the European Commission. In particular, it is the young people who have met a major challenge online, through the dissemination of pictures and information and are very difficult to erase once it has been found out online. The government has created since the deletemeg.no, and it has been successful in helping people get involved in unwanted images that have been posted online. Student data is another area that has not yet been fully clarified, and the Committee notes that the government is continuing to work on how to organise a central student register, so as not to spread student data to outsiders. The fact that we now get large registers of a lot of data and personal data together gives us challenges in terms of who can snoop in information about us. This is something we also need to control, and we can do that, for example. know that we log who can use the systems. It'll be part of and remedy this. The concept of "big data", that we now have huge amounts of information lying outside that can be co-ordinated in different ways, and that with that one can form a picture of where a person has been, what he is doing, gives us challenges. It can be used in marketing, it can be used in the health sector, and it can be used in the police. Something is positive, and something is not that positive. It's something we have to take with us in the new era, which was not there when the Privacy Commission worked, but which we now see is a challenge. It shows that there are still changes in the digitalised privacy field, and we do not know what is happening, for example. Next year. Finally, I want to highlight a particular data protection challenge, and it facilitates the re-use of data. This field is central to government policy, but it is nevertheless very important that, when re-using personal data, we are careful and ensure that privacy is properly protected. To achieve this, it is assumed that all re-use of personal data must be based on a basis that meets the requirements of the Data Protection Act. Should personal data be reused, a proportionality assessment shall be carried out. This assessment shall again demonstrate that the treatment and the information it contains are proportionate to the objective to be achieved. This theme is so important that it is addressed in the Storing Communication in a separate chapter, Chapter 4. The fact that the government seriously delivers a big message in this field, and that there is such a lot of consensus in the committee, is good for the personal data issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e214	The case spokesperson has done well for the matter, and I agree with the case spokesman that there is a great deal of agreement among the opposition. In so far as I might not have to say so much, except what the case-speaker has said, but I still want to point out some of the comments that the Progress Party is all about. The party of progress records that the government chooses a more general approach than the Commission of the Data Protection Commission’s area review. Rather, the government would point to the general principle of privacy, objectives and measures that can be adapted and applied to privacy issues, regardless of the area of society in which it applies. The Progress Party takes note that the government does not intend to give its opinion on any fundamental law on privacy and data protection at the present time, but chooses to look at this in conjunction with the constitutional revision of other human rights laws. That is what we in the Progress Party think is strange. The Progress Party indicates that labour and welfare management has difficulties with old and out-of-date lKT systems. We have expressed concerns that incorrect payments and incorrect documentation of personal data have been compromised. This has resulted in individual data protection being weak. We therefore welcome the fact that this concern is being raised by the fact that efforts are now being made to strengthen ICT solutions and improve control procedures in case of mispayments and file documentation that have been misleading to the unknown. The party of progress believes that it is important to make careful comparisons between privacy concerns and the need to detect and prevent social security abuse. In particular, the proposal on the interconnection of registers raises this problem. The Party of Progress indicates that one of the principles of privacy is that the processing of personal data should be as much as possible based on voluntary, express and informed consent. In cases where it is not practical or possible, there must be another legal basis after the view of the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes that legal protection of freedom of expression and anonymity should be introduced on the Internet, and we show in this context that document 8:55 S for 2011-2012 on the legal protection of freedom of expression and anonymity on the Internet. We believe that the individual should have full access to his or her own personal data. The Progress Party will point out that trust between authorities and the audience is weakened when personal information is compromised. We point out that the web portal and the technical platform for delivering electronic form to the public, Altinn, have made users access to other users' personal data, including in 2013. This is very negative for trust in electronic interaction with public entities, unless personal data is protected in a satisfactory way. The progress party is opposed to average measurements between photo boxes, as this is a dangerous form of monitoring, because all the billist files have to be registered and photographed, not just those that run too fast. When you place a sufficient number of photo boxes, the road authorities will be able to follow each car over long distances. We want to show that the Data Protection Authority has previously said no to average measurements, and the NAF has been sceptical for the same reason. The Progress Party will indicate that in 2006 the Data Protection Authority will put a stop to the total monitoring of all single-track drivers. It is therefore disappointing that the government has nevertheless introduced route automatic traffic control. The party of progress will also point out that the public sector's dealings with individual people's personal data also in paper format in some contexts have been unacceptable, for example. sensitive personal and patient information has been handed over between different departments before the specialist services with taxis, without this information being physically preserved by public servants. This is completely unacceptable. The party of progress will also indicate that the police are currently unable to access the registers to the Nav and Skatt East, which means that one who has been searched by the police can get funds from Nav without the police being informed of this. This means, in practice, that the State calls for one hand and gives social security benefits to the other. The Progress Party also believes that there is a problem in those cases where there is a suspicion of social security abuse. We think that the concern of the individual's privacy must give way at the time when someone breaks rules that all in society must conform to. We will then state that there must be a requirement for clear suspicion of a breach of public policy, at the request for personal information from other agencies. The Progress Party will indicate that EEA citizens who present a written job offer will receive a registration certificate without the end date of the UDI following proceedings by the police. There is no mandatory reporting back to the UDI if the employment is terminated. In the last six months, Norwegian Nav offices have faced the following dilemmas: Nav does not have the ability to stop subsidies to EEA citizens, as they know to break the social benefits requirements. A new regulation allows EEA citizens with a job contract of at least 14 days duration to obtain a registration certificate without an expiry date. In addition, when the person has a permanent residence in Norway, this gives him full access to services such as social assistance and municipal housing. This means that there is no mechanism to capture the termination of work. In practice, workers who have worked for 14 days may be able to increase social assistance, even if they add to Nav, learn that the client is no longer in work and thus has no legal suspension and entitlement to benefits. In this context, the Progress Party will refer to Document 8:7 S for 2012–2013 that public etats can exchange information between themselves in order to detect crime. The party of progress believes that strong privacy must also apply in the individual workplace. The principle of «right to know» must be capable of being practised in cases where it is strictly necessary, or in cases where there is a suspicion of a criminal offence or of a violation of rules. We believe that employees should feel confident that they are not being illegally monitored, or that unaccompanied persons are given access to their personal data or other information that they are dealing with, without their consent. In the government’s assessment that consent is not suitable for most processing of personal data, the party’s point of progress is completely inconsistent. On the contrary, we believe that informed, effective consent is the best basis for processing personal data, and that the practical disadvantages of consent are greatly exaggerated. We would also like to stress that even if consent is obtained, the data subject will have a much stronger awareness of his or her right to have his or her own information. The Progress Party will demonstrate that the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Board have been assessed by Digi, who has produced a report on these, where it finds that the oversight carries out its functions as both the mandate and the supervisory body of the principal and the name of the Board of Appeal in a good way, and that this has been achieved within a moderate resource framework. The organisation so far has been appropriate and therefore does not require any change. The Progress Party has great confidence in the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer’s work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e252	Thanks to the rapporteur for good work, interesting and readable comments. It was a very good opening post, and yes, I agree that this is a very important matter – it is a very important topic. I am, as I think we all are, a strong ideological supporter of a holistic, integrated privacy in all sectors. The public should and must go ahead with a good example here, as usual. That's why I'm also pleased that government and growth in this privacy message and this setting mark such ambitions in such a clear way, about embedded privacy and the importance of cooperation – because it's a whole social machinery, an entire community culture, that's going to develop a smart privacy practice. The main element is attitudes and awareness of privacy of individuals, businesses and society as a whole. It's a cross of thought, and I don't think it's just for me, that we as individuals like to have a somewhat dull relationship with this topic. Putting into practice new information technologies in all variants is so nearly effective, it's just so pleasant and so fascinating, in the positive sense, that we just do it. In practice, we would like to rely uncritically on the systems, whether we sail in theory and in debates like today, in many ways claim that we are doing something else, that we have a more critical approach. So, if the choice is between doing something heavy and privacy-proof and doing something easy and privacy-friendly more questionable, I think we are, in practice, too much in favour of choosing the last, as individuals, but also as employees or professionals. The easiest thing to do is to do the best, it's often said. Transferred to today's debate, I think some of the point in the future must be that we must try to make it so that the safest must also be the simplest, or at least almost the simplest, we shall succeed in the future. It has become a trend lately that every time we politicians show that we are for something, we propose a new department. If we're for housing, if we're going to have housing, if we're for seafood, if we're going to have seafood, if we're going for travel, if we're going to have tourism, if we're going to have something, we're going to have our own, for example. Minister for Asylum and Immigration or its own Department. I get a little the same feeling when the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party believes that: ‘It should be considered whether the Ministry of Justice and Security shall not be ultimately responsible for promoting laws initiated by the Ministry of Sectors where data protection concerns are opposed to the practical usefulness of data protection interference.’;» The thought is good, but I think it's wrong. First of all, there's a lot to do for the Justice Department, but the most important thing is maybe it can be a sleeping cushion for other departments. It violates the very basic idea of thinking privacy and then acting, must be a fundamental principle for all departments in their activities — for all social activities, for that matter. Otherwise, it is a bit fun that the Progress Party believes that the interests of individual privacy need to give way more strongly than today in the case of immigrants, social security recipients and EEA citizens, but in the case of drivers and speed limits, then the thumb is turned down – because then there is so-called massive monitoring we are talking about. At the same time, I should not be too attached to this. I think just such dilemmas, meeting sail in the door, is something that all the different parties will quickly come up in when we talk about this topic. This information technology is fascinating, as I said, in both a positive and a negative sense. It stands for an information collection and dissemination and a knowledge collection and dissemination, which is very much positive. This allows more people to participate in the flow of information in a society, more to participate in the debates, easier access to knowledge, and easier to contribute to knowledge development. We get such beautiful strings as efficiency, democratisation and the spread of power. At the same time, there is no doubt that there are also enormous possibilities for concentration of power. Several have been involved, not least the case rapporteur – this with monitoring, this with collecting a lot of information that is stored and that can quickly get into the wrong hands. We see that we have a problem around this with censorship, and we see that there is an opportunity here to do a lot of propaganda, so that there is information interception, and not the information and knowledge extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e276	In the Central Party, we are pleased that the government in the Communication provides for a wide-ranging debate on privacy, while including the concrete proposals of the Privacy Commission that have already been followed up. By establishing the basic principles of good privacy to be applied in all sectors, we believe that there is a good basis for an overall and thoughtful approach. I believe that the message facilitates a strengthening of the data protection work. When we talk about privacy, the so-called proportionality principle is essential. The importance of privacy needs to be assessed against other important societal considerations and against the concerns of individuals. Often, there are difficult balances between considerations that are individually incredibly important. I believe that the message makes the different considerations and considerations visible in a good way. A more complex and digitised society offers new opportunities for public authorities and new opportunities for each of us, but it also presents many new challenges, not least in terms of privacy. Monitoring may, for example: be an effective response to crime, but raise ethical issues. The possibilities of technology must be balanced against the rule of law. Similar assessments and considerations must also be made in other areas, where the purpose may be a more efficient public administration, control purposes, freedom of expression or organisation for better health and care services. Different public offices today have a wide range of information about each of us. In order to provide good services to citizens, the Centre Party believes that it is correct and, in fact, also important that the information can be reused across the floors to a greater extent than is the case today. It could provide better and more effective services to individuals, but it is also important to ensure rights and equal treatment. This requires the use of public data systems across sectors and across departments. For the Centre Party, it is a clear pre-requisite that privacy considerations are respected. The re-use of personal data is in practice the use of personal data for a different purpose than the purpose of the collection, or used by a different body from the one receiving the data. Although the re-use of personal data will often be in line with the interests of the person concerned, caution should be exercised. In the re-use of personal data, it is important to re-evaluate the impact of data protection, as the message also states. In addition, it is important that citizens are informed about how and by whom the information can be reused. The centre party wants an open society based on trust between people and where privacy plays an important role. Monitoring and control must be based on an ethical and principle approach and must be as intrusive as possible to the citizens. A monitoring society will shift responsibility for one's own life and responsibility for decent behavior from the individual to society. The centre party does not want such a development. The contract between man who contributes and takes responsibility, and the state, which gives freedom and security, is glued to the welfare community. The centre party wants to strengthen this interaction. Individuals must be held responsible and the State must not restrict freedom through more bureaucracy, control and monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e291	This is a large and important area, and it should have been an even greater debate. There's hardly any case, really, in the last few years where we've noticed that privacy trumps when it's set up against something else – probably because it's not useful enough. It's a sort of follow-up to the Commission's proposal, sail if it's disappointing to me overall. Nor do you have, on the basis of the proposals that lie there, a leftover list saying which proposals you want to implement, and when you want to implement them. The most concrete proposal is that a regionalisation of the Data Protection Agency is killed. The Data Protection Authority has a very important role in Norwegian debate and is very lonely in its fight for privacy. It's rare that we see other agencies fighting for the values that are in the right to have a private life, that the Data Protection Authority is set to manage. We have seen it in a number of areas, from the processing of the eco-systems law to social security control, to changes to the copyright law and to the implementation of the data storage directive, DLD. And the last thing we saw was, the Ministry of Health and Welfare was the treatment of the Cancer Register. There you don't care about the objections that come with regard to the Privacy Policy. Not enough to change from the right of consent to the right of reservation; you also give the regulations retrospectively. Personal data subjects react to it hard – and I quote them: ‘The independence of the personal data subject shall be challenged if a department thereby overrides the legal effects of the decision of the denominator.’;» The Data Protection Authority followed up by saying: ‘The Data Protection Authority and the Subject are independent bodies and it is important to respect the independence. Changing things back in time shows that you do not accept the actions of two independent bodies.’ The eye-catching thing is Secretary of State Robin Kåss’ quote to the Evening Post when he was met with these comments, namely: ‘I respect the Data Protection Authority and the Privacy Policy, but we have a different role. For us, it is essential to ensure good and safe cancer treatment.’ Once again, we see that privacy loses. You don't even respect your own organs, because they're just put there to have a different role. Everyone else has a different role to care for other things, and then we can't care about it. We see that we have major challenges both in social media, and in what many have mentioned in the term ‘Big Data’. When it comes to caring for citizens, it is our duty as politicians in the national parliament to uphold citizens' rights. For example: to refuse social media to provide third-party information, we have made a proposal here. We also see that there are active, large-scale data protection processes in the EU, and much of the process that was done when the Data Storage Directive was created, questions are now being raised and major debates are linked to. Similarly, we see that the FRA Act leads to major challenges for the privacy of Norwegian citizens. We're going to have a constitutional debate where I hope you win, that the right to privacy is also an important part of human rights. But we must not just have the big words and the big days; we must also discuss whether any of the things that have to be promised are the tiny local things in our everyday lives. That is why we have today, for example. also submitted a proposal to allow municipalities to charge for camera surveillance. We want the power to be moved down to the municipalities when it comes to where it is allowed to set up cameras and not, so that we actually get a debate about privacy in each local government. Today it's clear, and we know that these cameras really don't work. It's like the area that I guess has 80-90 pst. Of all the countries in Norway, the area that is deciduous is also the most camera-monitored — without us seeing that it has consequences for crime. The last field I miss in the message is the municipalities, which have such an important role in providing good services for their citizens online, but which are also supposed to keep goals of privacy. They should have been included in the team. I would like to address the proposals that I have referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e320	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has taken up the proposals she referred to, which are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e323	I am pleased that Stortinget has had this opportunity to discuss privacy. It is an important and comprehensive theme, which is becoming increasingly topical. In 2009, the Data Protection Commission presented its report on the state and challenges of privacy. The report contains many and good proposals for measures to protect the privacy of citizens. Several measures have already been implemented, such as: logging of access to patient records. The government has also set up the successful eraser service to assist online offenders. Many of the proposals require more investigation. It can best be done by sectoral authorities as part of other work. It is important to provide a good basis for the consistent management of related issues in different sectors. The government wants an overall approach to the privacy challenges. It gives the most robust solutions. We have therefore presented a Communication addressing cross-sectoral privacy challenges, such as: challenges to the re-use of personal data for new purposes or the use of consent as a basis for the processing of personal data. Thinking privacy in investigative work is a general challenge. If we are to obtain good solutions without becoming disproportionately expensive or technically demanding, it is essential that privacy comes early into the investigation work. At the same time, it is important that data controllers focus on privacy throughout the processing process. Compliance systems and procedures are important. Good internal control is usually the result of conscious attitudes towards privacy. That is why we want to develop a guide on the implementation of internal data protection controls. Every day we leave electronic tracks that tell us details of what we've done and where we've been. ‘Big data’ is the term used for these huge quantities of electronic tracks. The tracks can be collated and analysed. Privacy is challenged. Data minimisation is an important data protection measure in this way. It involves minimising person-identifiable information, e.g.: so we can run anonymously through the toll station. Also information to data subjects about which personal data are processed and what they are used for is basic. We all have to be aware of what information we leave behind, and how the information can be put together and used. The government wants to facilitate the development of the best possible digital services in the administration. Digitalisation opens up the protection of privacy through the use of technology, through so-called ‘Privacy by Design’, or in Norwegian: built-in privacy. Digital transparency solutions, privacy-friendly pre-sets and electronic replicas, or the ability to update information itself, are relevant measures. Logging of access to large personal data registers may also be important data protection measures. They provide the data subjects with information on who has access to their data. At the same time, it can help to reduce the sneezing of personal data. The technology is used to protect privacy. Another important tool to achieve integrated privacy is good information. Those who know their rights will demand privacy-friendly solutions. The Nordics use a wide-ranging online service. Personal data flows across borders. A good international framework is a great help in addressing the challenges. It is also an advantage for both providers and users if the legislation in the different countries is as uniform as possible. This is one of the reasons behind the revision of EU data protection legislation. A new EU legislation is likely to be EEA-relevant. The government therefore follows closely the EU work to safeguard Norwegian interests. The announcement that Stortinget has today provides a good basis for working in principle on privacy issues. It is important that the Storting does, because the challenges and opportunities are many.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e346	I record that the government is pleased not to acknowledge its view of any fundamental law of privacy and personal data protection now. We are discussing a matter of privacy today, and after the Progress Party's view, it would be quite natural for the government to provide an answer to this when we deal with this important matter, and not wait until later. Why does the government not want to take a decision on this and the syste so that we get a basic law on privacy and personal data protection now? For the Progress Party, the individual is one of the most important things, and the individual's layer is very important, and I am surprised that the government would then well postpone this until later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e353	That's the way the Storting has contributed to the setting up of a separate commission that is working on the issues relating to human rights, and I think it would be unwise if we were to start going into some of the things that are an important work for the committee that is working on it. We will come back to the questions raised by the questioner here now, in an overall assessment related to the work that is taking place here in the Biggest of Human Rights. Of course, when we get that far, we need to make clear our vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e358	Let me repeat that this message contains a lot of good descriptions. It seems that the political task is not so much to define the problems or to express general interest in privacy, but it is precisely up to memorizing the sector interests that always need additional information and to be able to work towards purpose-sliding — using information collected for one purpose in a different context. Then I have to ask the Council of State a question that goes at a point where many in the Committee thought it would have been useful to have expressed more clearly, and that is precisely the problem of re-use. My question to the Council of State is this simple: does the Council of State agree that re-use of data must have the same threshold as initial registration?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e365	The answer to that is yes. It is important to have legal frameworks when reusing information, and it is important to also make the same assessments of proportionality and utility as in other contexts. So I agree. It's important that you have legal grounds for what you're going to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e370	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e373	I want to start by saying a little about two suspicious people. The 1952 Supreme Court judgment concluded that Norwegian law contains an unlawful data protection. The judgment concerned the viewing of a film by Tancred Ibsen, based on the novel «To Suspicious Persons» by Gunnar Larsen. History is based on a 1926 criminal case that involved killing two loners, then a long, febrile and much-mentioned hunt for the two suspected criminals. One committed suicide when he was to be apprehended, the other was finally taken and imprisoned. When the film was to be shown, the latter was finished atoning, had changed its name, got married and had a child. He was in the process of a new life. Fearing that his past would be broken and thus destroy the attempt to live a new and lawful life, he demanded a ban on viewing the film. With support in particular: foreign legal sources unanimously stated that there is a ‘general legal protection of the personality’ in Norwegian law and that this protection initially gave the man the right to oppose the viewing of the film. It is difficult to imagine that the Supreme Court would today achieve the same result in balancing freedom of expression and privacy, and technology is a completely different one. But the verdict was important. It has remained as the first unequivocal expression that there is an inviolable privacy in Norwegian law, whether it is stated in the Constitution or not. The judgment also shows us that the understanding of privacy has changed, and that privacy needs to be constantly weighed against other considerations. Step Skei Grande called for matters in which privacy trumps other considerations. This is not – and can never be – the goal. Privacy is an important consideration, but it must always be weighed against other important considerations. Cancer treatment and freedom of expression are also important. The cancellation message we're handling is important. New technology makes it possible to store and use personal data to the extent that it has so far been difficult to understand, and storage does not necessarily take place here in the country. Information about a customer in Norway who buys something in an American online store may be stored in Taiwan or South Korea. Privacy is challenged from all sides. "Big data" is the key to the huge amount of electronic tracks that we leave behind as we live more and more parts of our lives on the Internet. There is a need to protect important principles and it is essential that Norway participates in and takes into account the implications of the wide international work currently underway in the field of privacy. ‘Personal data flows across borders.’ Yes, that is right. An international framework is crucial if we are to address this challenge. Both the OECD and the Council of Europe have privacy on their agenda, and the EU is working on updating the Data Protection Directive. The proposal under discussion in the EU includes, inter alia: clarification of the ownership of the individual's personal data and the right to erasure. The new EU legislation is likely to be EEA-relevant and relevant in Norway, and it is good for the government to follow closely the EU work. Privacy is an important human right and an important pillar of a democratic society. Without the right to privacy, it will not be possible for individuals to create a room to develop personal reflections and assessments on an independent basis without being disturbed or controlled by others. Poor privacy will put democracy at risk by restricting citizens' participation in open exchange and political activity. People fear that personal information will be made known. There is also a fear that someone will register and store data. Technology may be threatening and limiting and may provide opportunities for monitoring and abuse. But technology can also be liberating, as we saw in the Arab spring. An open society rests, and must also rest, on the free exchange of knowledge and information by electronic means. In this is the dilemma. In practical policy, we need to balance considerations and ensure that data protection legislation keeps up with technological developments. The Government has followed up the Commission’s report on the state and challenges of privacy in Norway. Several measures have been implemented, and some should be implemented with a solid look at what is happening in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e392	This is a very important matter, and as many people have said, it is about the privacy of the individual. And it's a little special to record that when you discuss something the same thing, from one committee to another, there are clearly different things that are important – you focus differently. I want to start by boasting about the Data Protection Agency, because I believe that the Data Protection Authority is doing an incredibly important job. It's active, it's clear, and it gives back clear messages when it's experiencing a public assault, especially perhaps from state agencies and businesses. In the evening post of 21 May, it is clear that the ‘Monitors are breaking the law’, i.e., both the Customs and Fee Directorate and the State Road Service, and it clearly shows that privacy is violated for the individual. It is quite serious that the agencies are in fact unable to demonstrate that internal control and information security have been ensured. There are 70,000 people who every day are filmed and monitored, and in the legislative proposals now presented, they want to expand the ability of Customs to store information for up to one year on all those who run along the routes. We believe that it is serious and will be an intervention in the privacy of the individual. I agree with those who say that new technology offers a lot of new opportunities, but it definitely presents some challenges, and then maybe especially related to privacy. I record that there has been very little in this debate on the Data Storage Directive, which will be a major interference in individual privacy, and which is still fortunately not in place. Those of us who are not happy with the Data Storage Directive are happy that it has not been put in place, and it seems that it will still take some time before it can be put in place. Hopefully, there will be a new government for the autumn that will give rise to a new discussion between new government partners as to whether or not to introduce the Data Storage Directive. I also want to get into the FRA Act, because it is a very important matter, which can mean a lot for the privacy of individuals in Norway. A great deal of tele and data traffic from Norway is routed through Sweden, and Swedish authorities, both defence and police, are given the opportunity to go in and check the individual's e-mail and even check the content of e-mails that go through Sweden. We have challenged the Minister of Transport several times on this – now I also see that the Minister of Transport is in the Chamber – and we have also challenged former Ministers of Transport to take this into account, to follow it up with the Swedish authorities and at least to ensure that Norwegian citizens receive the same rights as the citizens of Sweden have with regard to protection against this law. Then I would like to refer to the representative of Skei Grande's proposal. Two of the proposals we very much agree with. That is proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 2 is actively calling on the government to work towards the EU to ensure that the new data protection regulation provides a higher level of protection of privacy than it currently has. Proposal No. 3 makes an appropriate contribution to ensuring that users of social media have a right of access to information provided to third parties. This is very good and very good suggestions. As regards proposal No: Four, we're more skeptical. We definitely see that some of the intentions of the Left are good, and we ensure that we get a discussion on privacy and the importance of privacy for the individual at local level. But we definitely don't like being able to charge a fee to the municipality for anyone who would want to set up a camera on their own property. We are critical of that, but we are going to support proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We hope that more parties will do the same, because there are good proposals, which will safeguard the privacy interests of Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e407	I agree with the last speakers that technological development has given us all the fantastic new opportunities, and we're putting them into practice, of course. For example, the North is among the busiest users of networks and social media in Europe, according to Eurostat. 93 pst. Of the Northmen aged 15 to 29, they have a Facebook account, and over half of them who have reached the age of 60 are on Facebook. But there's a red thread of electronic tracks going through a modern life. Electronic payment is for me and for many others soon completely exclusive. We draw the card, and my account statement is a detailed overview of where I've been, what I did, and what it cost. I see the DVD sales are falling. We're streaming our films now, just like we've been doing for a while with the music. I see that I can share my music choices and the movies I've seen with friends and acquaintances at the streaming services. That means that the data is being saved. We use mobile phones with many check-out and useful apps. Some of them are even installed when you get the phone. My phone has e.g. an app called Google Map, which still tells me that I have to go to work to reach it in time. It shows the map, with the way to work and the estimated time spent travelling – check out the little thing. I'm still a little surprised that the app knows where I work, because I've never told it. I can have some assumptions about how it found out – it is probably based on position data and where I stay at a certain time between Monday and Friday. But these data are then recorded, i.e. where I work, without my consent to such a conclusion being made. So on Facebook, maybe the only place, all my statements become immortal. All of these digital possibilities give us opportunities. They're citizens of effective and good solutions, and they're good. We see that the public also comes after. Individually, these records are not so dangerous. But sometimes I've been thinking, what happens if someone connects this? What happens if someone connects all the information stored about my life? Is that a thought I'm comfortable with? I have to admit, I'm not. Then I would like to stress that this is not just a question of the relationship between the individual and the public. Similarly — if not larger — there is also a question of the relationship between the individual and the private business, because data and personal data are large shops, and there will be more shops. Points where it is possible to opt out of the registration are probably passed. We need to put in place schemes where knowledge and awareness of what is recorded, how and how long it is stored are important, and where the individual has the prerequisites for being able to relate to information about his or her own person. But we haven't yet found a good enough answer to how we're going to do this. It's an important discussion we have today. It is an important message, indicating many good actions. But I'm absolutely sure that's neither the last time we do this, nor that we've found all the answers we need for how to take control of the tracks one leaves behind, what information is stored about one's self, and how they're used in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e424	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e427	I would like to thank the representatives for a good debate on an important topic. Just a few comments from my side on some of what has been said in the debate. I'm worried, like many of the representatives here, about the use of social media and the storage of information and we don't know where to necessarily store this information. So it is that very many of the actors in the industry are registered in completely different countries than Norway, and thus are not in Norwegian law. This is why it is important that we take part, among other things. in EU cooperation and in other cooperation to influence and recall our attitudes to privacy. I think that's important. Then I find it interesting that the opposition is concerned about Swedish politics, because it is also the government. There's reason to be concerned about the FRA Act. We've discussed the relationship with the Swedish authorities a number of times, without getting any specific response to what we're dealing with. But a change has been made here in the Stortingen regarding the eco-nomy law, which obliges providers to inform us that traffic is going through Sweden, so that those who buy services can make informed choices. So it's interesting what Bård Hoksrud says, that you can look a little different on privacy depending on which committee you sit on. In the setting I record that the members of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party write that they ‘would regard it as a step forward for privacy whose informed consent principle was also a condition for the use of ‘cookies’’; So cookies. Then it's interesting to see what the same parties thought about cookies when the eco-label was treated. It was then said that it would be sufficient to provide general information without informing about the techniques used, the information processed and the purpose of the processing, or who is processing this information. So I understand that it may be a little difficult to keep track of their views on privacy a little depending on what position you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e447	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e461	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e470	Rogfast is a very important project to realize a future upgraded and ferry-free coastal line, E39, on the route from Stavanger and northwards the coast all the way up to Trondheim, which will also provide a national value-creation lift. At the same time, Rogfast is a project that will give major local and regional effects by connecting Rogaland with a double-run 25 km subsea tunnel with a ferry-free connection between the north and south. In addition, the side arm with a 4 km single-loop tunnel to White Island will provide a ferry exit for this island community. The economically important coastal strip between Bergen and Stavanger will also, by the realization of Rogfast, take an important step forward towards ferry-free and upgraded connections. This sounds so good and important that we should rather adopt the construction start already today. Unfortunately, it is not as well, but the decision that the Stortinget has been invited to join in today is a very important step on the road for the project to have a good progress on the planning and design side, and it will allow us to make final development decisions about hopefully not too long. This is the case, on application by all the municipalities in question, and Rogaland County Council approves the advance collection of tolls for Rogfast on the ferry link Mortavika-Arsvågen for up to three years, until a possible decision on the construction of the project is taken. This will give about 85 million. gross in tolls per year. It has been suggested that the collection should provide the same annual revenue as it has been on toll collection at the interconnection since 2001 for the partial financing of the project fv. 47, T-link. An alternative tariff and discount system is presented in this case compared to that provided for local policy treatment. This has been done to bring the tariff and discount system into line with the Eurovignette Directive, and this will be submitted to local authorities before the Road Directorate takes a new tariff decision. As mentioned earlier, Stortinget will decide on the Rogfast project itself later on. And if it wasn't then, against all assumption like this, at least I see it, to be agreed on the development of Rogfast, this proposition states that in case excess funds should be used to repair E39 on the Arsvågen-Mjåsund route. All parties represented in the Transport and Communications Committee, except the Progress Party, are behind the setting as it currently stands. I assume that the Progress Party itself will do well for its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e487	Yes, we will. Free E39 is an important national project. I think that is a broad and full political consensus on that. But the Progress Party will have government funding. For this reason, I refer to Document 8:80 S for 2012–2013, which is a proposal by representatives of the Progress Party on the construction of the E39 ferries based on project financing and project organisation, and to the corresponding suspension, which is addressed at the same time as the examination of the new National Transport Plan for the period 2014–2023. The Progress Party will build the Free E39, where Rogfast is included, faster than the government's 20-year time allocation and with full government funding. The proposal for a Directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is the subject of a proposal from the Commission to ‘The government is asked to approve the construction of project-free E39 as described in the main report dated December 2012. It is done outside the framework of the new National Transport Plan 2014-2023 and with clear, predictable, long-term government funding for the project.’;» We will also propose that the government base project start-up in 2013 and set a target for completion of 15 years. Therefore, the Progress Party opposes the advance collection of tolls for the design of E39 Rogfast in Rogaland at the ferry link Mortavik-Arsvågen, as part of the user funding of the project. The Party for Progress refers to the answer to question No. 2 in this case concerning the advance collection of tolls and has taken note of the new information on the provisional calculations of the additional invoices to users, which are not mentioned in the case. Based on 15 years of recovery, the toll contribution to the investment costs will be 9 500 million. kr. The funding costs will be between 7 billion. kr and 8 br. NOK – i.e. between 7 000 million. NOK 8 000 and SEK 8 000 million. kr – and the collection costs will be between 100 million. SEK and 150 million. kr. So the total bill to users for this project, financed by the government and other parties, is going to be between 16 billion. kr and 17,5 brd. NOK, for a project that it will probably cost 12 billion. to build. The funding – as planned – imposes a large, unnecessary and very unreasonable extra cost on consumers. The impact of the entire project Free E39 is a reduction in the cost of time and travel for users of between 4 billion. kr and 6 brd. kr annually. Social benefits are great. In a 40-year perspective, this equals between 160 billion. DKK and 240 billion kr. A preliminary price tag for the entire project Ferjefri E39 is between 100 billion. DKK and 120 billion kr. The Free E39 project appears not only to be one of the most important national transport projects in recent times, but also to be one of the most profitable. As I said, the E39 Rogfast is part of this national project, and, as I have said, toll financing appears to be completely unnecessary. I therefore refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote, which reads: ‘The size consents to the said project, Rogfast in Rogaland, being built as part of the main Ferry Free E39 project and based on full State funding.’ One of the showcasing projects that today's government eagerly leaked from the government's own proposal for the new NTP, before it was published, was just a free E39. But the funding was and is little to boast of. As usual under this government, important road projects are to be financed by extra tax to users, while the government is willing to fully finance, for example. railway development in the East. In this case, a large part of the bill for the Free E39 comes, which invoice was sent to the drivers. Red-green road construction is boasting of new roads, paid by the drivers. Therefore, it is time for a new road policy where the state takes the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e515	The representative of Sortevik then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e518	This is a kind of prelude to one of the really great promises of social policy in Norway's history. You know, connecting the North and Haugaland together is really something that's so sweet. But we don't have to run the champagne yet. There is a prior collection of tolls, and the Stortinget will get the matter back for consideration when the final arrangement is ready. But anyway, this is an important sign that there is a broad political will to move forward with one of the really big projects, namely the Free E39. The right agrees with the comments already made by the rapporteur, Mr Rommetveit, and I hope that the Stortinget – when we get the case back – can give a final clear signal for this wonderful project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e525	The case we are dealing with today concerns the advance collection of tolls on the E39 Rogfast. It is an area I know reasonably well, and I have been following that matter for many years. The link is to link the North-Jear with the Haugaland, and the case-leader made a very clear statement on the whole matter. This is a matter that has incredibly large and solid anchoring, both locally and regionally. I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus that we should now move on to get tolls for this, even if – as others have said – a waits longingly on the day a decision is made that it should be built. This, which has been driven locally — the importance of linking the rogalendies — has, of course, been taken further into account by the entire Western Council; the ferry-free Coastal Route. This is the big and the first project, and it's incredibly important that one actually gets the opportunity to go ahead with planning it. There is – as has been said – great socio-economic benefit in the project. It replaces two ferry routes: Mortavika–Arsvågen, which is the second largest of the connections in terms of the number of cars, and Mekjarvik–Kvitsøy, which is smaller. In addition, we continue to collect tolls when the T-connection opens – it should have actually been opened this week, but will be postponed until the autumn – and this will last for three years. This has been driven locally, and I actually attended the meetings when this started in Rogaland. And what's in the NTP in terms of construction itself is a small amount of government funding, and it became very much to be financed by tolls. Then they said in this group: this project is so important. We have to do this, and we have to look at all the possibilities, even though our own payment is actually going to be great. And there has actually been an incredibly large consensus on that, both politically and in the organizations NHO and LO. There has been full agreement that this is such an important project for us. That's why this is a big day for Rogaland, when we're actually allowed to start with the toll collection. It is incredibly important to maintain the progress of this project. This is a happy day, both for us who have been on it and for Rogaland as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e534	The Rogfast project will be a very important project for the development of the entire Western region, but also an important part of the government's long-term ambition to extend the E39 between Kristiansand and Trondheim to a holiday-free standard. I must – like previous speakers – stress that we are not currently adding up to the treatment of the project itself. We will get back to that properly, but we will decide on the question of prior collection. E39 Rogfast can become the world's longest and deepest underwater tunnel. The project consists of a tunnel of approx. 25 km with two runs between Randaberg on the North Jären and Boken on the Haugaland. In addition, an undersea tunnel of about 4 km is also planned, with one running as an arm to White Sea. It is a large and important project, and of course it will also have quite a long construction time – we have to admit that. Rogfast is mentioned in the National Transport Plan 2014–2023, which is now under consideration by the Storting, and the project is intended to have a large positive socio-economic net benefit. The government also emphasises that the project contributes to regional enlargement by linking up the housing and labour market regions of the North-Jearth and Haugaland. From the government side, it has been assumed that the project will be carried out in the period 2014-2023, with traffic opening at the end of the 10-year period. The estimated cost of the project is 12.2 billion. kr in 2013 price level. What we're dealing with today is that it's set of 2.4 billion. kr in State resources for the project during the ten-year period, including compensation for increased VAT, in addition to the toll contribution. What we are dealing with today, however, is the question of the advance collection of tolls, which may continue – after a decision in the United Kingdom today – for up to three years, before any decision on the construction of the project itself is presented. It is apparent from the Committee's attitude that Rogfast is a major project and that it is also necessary and appropriate to initiate pre-recoveries relating to the project. The Committee emphasises the socio-economic viability of the project and that there will be a significant reduction in travel time between the North and Haugaland, with all the positive effects it will have. The proposal for the advance collection of tolls is supported by all parties except the Progress Party. I am pleased that there is such broad support in Stortinget both to now open up for prior collection and to be able to proceed with the project in its entirety when that time comes. The possibility of pre-recovery of Rogfast exploits a local potential as the collection will replace the current collection of the T-connection. The T-connection is planned to open the summer/harvest this year, and as we have also heard from previous speakers, it is full local commitment to introduce pre-recovery to Rogfast. I would like to thank the Committee for its speedy examination. This will make it possible to avoid staying in the collection when the T-connection opens. This will also mean that the faster you will be able to come back and present the Stortinget project itself when it is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e562	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e565	It almost sounds like someone's spreading the champagne to get permission to start with pre-claiming tolls. I think it's a little special. Now it has been in many ways that since 2001, the T link has been funded by parts of the ferry ticket. So maybe it's a little bit of fear that you were going to put down the ferry ticket, so people would see what they actually paid for the T-connection - the government disclaimer. Maybe this is the state council's motive to start pre-enforcement for something you really don't know if you're planning to build, because you have to decide that first after you've done and planned it, and after the drivers have paid something like 280 million. kr in extra tolls through the session ferry ticket.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e573	There is a great deal of excitement in Stortinget that in this type of project you can start pre-claiming tolls, and there is a broad upturn in the Stortinget in this particular case that you can start pre-claiming tolls. And there is no doubt that it also implies a starting signal for the project itself. If everything goes as planned, you have to be able to expect that if not too long, you can invite the Stortinget to decide on the project itself. It'll be with tolls, too. I have noticed that the representative Sortevik from the Progress Party says that with the Advance Party in government, a new road policy will be put in place. Yes, I wonder because the Progress Party does not seem to agree with any of them they might cooperate with if they join the government. Only today there are two issues in the Stortinget where the Right and the Advance Party together disagree on the financing of projects representing approximately 15 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e580	The council says it tends to be a broad consensus to start pre-recovery. In that case, you have largely decided to start the project. I want to remind the Council of State of what her own office has written in the proposition, and which I expect the Council of State is in favour of, and that is that this is no start on the development of Rogfast. We'll come back to that when planning and design is done. So this is not entirely in line with all the other pre-enquiry projects, because then you've largely decided to build. Here no decision has been made. Even though the Council of State says that it's the intention to do so, it's very clear in the proposition that it's the opposite, that once you've seen the design, you have to decide what to do. So maybe it's not as simple as this is just like any other pre-enforcement projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e585	It should only be lacking if the government in the proposition for pre-enforcement concluded that such a large case must also be dealt with independently at a later stage. This is a big and important project, which is going to be of great importance, and it is clear that you should have your own treatment of it in Stortinget. We're not supposed to advance that treatment today. But I notice that there is a broad consensus between the political parties, with the exception of perhaps the Progress Party, on both the pre-requisite and also on expectations of the start of the project itself. It is also used by the government in the proposal for a national transport plan that we have submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e592	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e597	It's a pre-recovery we're dealing with today, but the matter that the government is now presenting is really a matter with great perspectives over it and not least opportunities for the future. Not only do we link the North-Jearth and Haugaland for the future, traffic and culturally, but we are now taking the whole beginning of the coastal route. These are two regions longing for convergence, and there are two regions with a high potential for growth in the future. There's going to be a lot of activity going on here. The costs are provisionally estimated at 12,2 billion. kr. You have to get back to that. But there is no doubt that Stortinget today gives a starting signal for the entire project. It is very important that we now clarify and take a stand on the tolls. It's making progress in the project, which will get much faster, with plans and calculations, so we'll get it in place in a few years' time. It is, as I have said, very nice with employment and growth in the region, not least to link the whole of the West in a much better way than today. If there's something people end up about, it's just the big road development plans in the West that are embedded in this case. I also want to say, as I said earlier, that it is important that we now commit prior collection in order to make progress in these plans. From Rogaland's side, we're used to it. We also have Rennfast in this area. It's gone like butter, we've paid it off a long time ago, and people have ended up doing it. If there is any understanding of the Western countries, there is a pre-claim of tolls. We have had a ferry connection every year and paid tolls, so this is nothing new. We have to get it into place, and then we also have to go into this financing part. Let me finally say that there's one thing that really bothers me, and that's the marked resistance of the Progress Party to tolls and toll collection. There is nothing new, but when they say that – against the assumption – they will go to government with the Right in the autumn, this is one of the most important things, together with immigration policy, which they are going to have in place. Then I am somewhat concerned about this whole matter – if what is going to stand in the way of the free E39 is that we should now get a new government, and the Progress Party is putting everything in place to prevent us from getting this road project in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e614	Thank you for a nice debate so far. Pre-claimed tolls are the very best tolls you can have. It's the best money you can have at all. If not, you can collect a loan and pay interest. Here you can get an actual interest rate for the money until you use it. And $85 million. kr in the year will make a real success of this work. So a little visit to the Progress Party. I followed so much that they had a country meeting on weekends. It was established in the application that if there is a state-of-the-art suspension connection that gets suspension, the lot may be involved in toll removal. Then a little bit to Hoksrud's very indignant way of talking – on behalf of all drivers: if this had been a county road ferry connection – Mortavika – Arsvågen – and one had gone in for it, how had one behaved? If we had reclassified this European road in a manual, how would Hoksrud have settled in the hall today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e625	It is kind of funny here today to listen to the praise of being allowed to pay tolls in advance. It's, like Bård Hoksrud says, almost so you could spread the champagne bottle. But it actually hurts me to think of all those who now have to pay tolls, and who may never be allowed to use this way. I can take a good example in the case of E18 Kristiansand-Grimstad. My father agreed to pay tolls to this road for many years. Then he dies three weeks before the road could be opened. He then paid a lot of money. Letting people pay money for something they can never get to spend, I think it's reprehensible. Then I can say to calm down: it is not necessary to worry about our policies. It's just to vote on the proposals of the Progress Party, because then it's the state that pays the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e634	The E39 will provide a ferry-free road link between the North Juice and Haugaland. It will build the regions together, it will provide the basis for new value creation, and it will provide a larger commuting area. It's regional construction. I think a lot of people see that. There are approved municipal plans for the project, and the work on regulatory plans is well under way and will be completed during the first half of 2013. It is on this basis that we say yes to the advance collection of tolls, so that we can move forward with the ambition of the government to build E39 along the coast of the West. It will give completely different opportunities for business and housing, and that is something we fully support about. The center party is very clear that it is important, it will show a future that can strengthen both value creation and settlement in a large part of our country. What gives cause for concern are the opposition parties, which have so much different input into the financing of road projects. The advance party is against everything about tolls. They're going to pay back the projects you're doing, where you've already spent 25 billion. kr, and they are not set to use OPS, which will be used by the Right. It's a high cost if the Right gets its solution through. On the 13 projects submitted from the right side of the road, it is set at 7 billion. NOK over 20 years. You can ask questions about the West know what they get if you support those parties. No, pre-recovery is a good step forward to get the big expansion of E39, and therefore the Center Party fully supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e647	I understand that representatives from the government parties are afraid that there will be a change of government. They have good reason to be anxious about that. They lose their taboo rights, they lose their influence, they lose not least the governance of their transport policy, and users can be glad that this will happen. Today, when we deal with a matter of prior collection, it is because the government has taken a decision on the financing. I would like to repeat to the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rommetveit, as the praises for ex ante collection as the closest and only form of funding, that he has skillfully forgotten the best, the most natural, and not least the most reasonable, for consumers, namely that the State pays for the construction of the road. For those who are worried that there will not be a free E39 with a new government, I think we can cancel that anxiety. This is an important project for the Progress Party. To the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rommetveit, who had admitted that he had attended a little bit at the national meeting of the Progress Party, I can extend the knowledge base by referring to the last part of the adopted motion for a resolution by the National Assembly of the Progress Party last Sunday on the E39: «Ferge-free E39 must be planned by state regulation. This is a project of major national importance and must therefore be financed by State resources. The E39 must be organised and financed as a whole project. It provides faster implementation and more predictable frameworks.’» It is a framework for project production that the government should agree with. But we do not see the attempts to provide predictable frameworks that the government is putting forward, that there is more confusion than clarification – at least not predictability and not at all state funding, as the Progress Party will have, and as a new government will get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e663	This is an important project. It's an important project for Rogaland, it's an important project for the whole of the West. It is the first project to be involved and connect the Haugaland with Stavanger, and in the long run connect Bergen with Stavanger. We're now in a region screaming for action. We're screaming for more space, we're screaming for more development. When we see that this positive project — which is a huge social gain — is being restricted by heavy tolling, we think it is very unfortunate. Tore Nordtun mentioned racing fast. Rennfast has been a project that made a significant contribution to the earlier journey time between Haugalandand Stavanger. That it is a success project in terms of payments, there is no doubt about it, but I want to ask Tore Nordtun when the growth in our region came due to Rennfast. Did it arrive in 1992, when we opened the toll project, the tunnels, and made Rennfast land fast, or did it disappear that day? We see today that growth came that day the tolls disappeared, and our region lost 15 years. The progress party seems to be very unfortunate if we are to build a Rogfast that society will not get the necessary development, until more than 15 years later. There is no one who knows the price of Rogfast today, and we do not know the consequences – what the toll price will be, and how much the price will be rejected on the traffic. This is not good social construction on the Progress Party scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e672	It is not in order to highlight the debate on this, but there must be no doubt that for Rogaland and the environment there, this is an incredibly large and important project, as one wishes. I said in my post that when this came up, and one looked at how to finance a possible construction of it, there was actually a great political consensus with the business community and with LO – we have to get this! So when it comes to representing what people think: Rogalling is realistic, he's used to taking a roof. Today is actually a great day for Rogaland. One will move forward with this incredibly important project for the region, which is the beginning of linking the whole of the West. Okay, so if you asked the question so that you would get it too if you didn't pay tolls, someone would probably have said yes to it. But realism says that we're actually willing to do it. That one now takes advance collection, so that the work and planning can continue, I actually think the majority of Rogaland is very positive to, and they see this as a big day, even if one has to pay tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e682	A question was asked me about the growth in Rogaland, about progress and optimism came before or after we had Ryfast in place. I just have to say that Ryfast, which started in 1992, has been a success story for both North and South Rogaland all along. There has been a large growth in the population, a large growth in employment, and the region has had an outstanding development. The business community has fully supported these projects — the business associations in the north and south, the LO, the employee organisations, etc. You knew what you had before, you knew what you got, and you've experienced it on your body – it's been unique. What I've always asked questions about – The right has had one little post here in the room today, one small, short post and, to the extent that a good post – is that the right has not debated with the one they might be going to government with in the autumn, which is so fundamentally against tolls that one could most likely believe that it was a be or not for the nation of Norway. Then I have to say that if this is to be stopped, Rogaland's development, the whole coastal route and the Western world are put back decades ago. Now you plan, speed up the negotiations and have progress in the matter. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e689	It was nice to hear that the representative Rommetveit was attending the national meeting of the Progress Party. I very much agree with the representative Blackevik that it was because he was afraid of what would happen in a few months. What I can assure the representative of at least is that it is going to be very happy for Norwegian drivers – whether it might not be as pleasant for the representative Rommetveit. But I want to say to the representative Nordtun, who was up and talking about Rennfast and not Ryfast, that the question was, When did the real "boost" come into the growth? Did it come in 1992-2006, or did it really come from 2006? I know at least that the answer is that it was in 2006, after the bombs were gone, that it really took off in the growth of Rennfast. What I wanted to challenge the Nordtun representative on was: When did the really big impact of this action come? It's okay when we've just got an example that shows this. It also shows studies such as: I've done it. They've looked at the regional effects, and what it means to get a new path. It means a lot, but the regional effect and the growth don't come until the tolls go away, or at least it comes much less than it would if the road was there without having to pay extra taxes through tolls, which most of the parties in this room unfortunately seem to be quite fine, and that one should skin the drivers in addition to all the 55 billion they have to pay this year. So you're going to have $9.2 billion. SEK in tolls from the national road network drivers in 2013, in addition to SEK 4,6 billion. kr on the county road network. It's kind of no limit to what you think is right for the drivers to pay. For the Advancement Party, it is. The drivers have paid almost three times as much in taxes as they get back for road use on the national road network. But I want – and hope – that Nordtun answers me: When did the real growth come? Did it come in 1992, when you were going to start paying tolls on Rennfast, or did it come after 2006, when you took away the toll station and it was free to drive there?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e700	I'm afraid it's going to be like a bear and down like a skin trap for the Spring Party bombers in this election fight, if the unfortunate thing happens that it's going to be a bourgeois majority. I think it is important that the Right Party and the Advance Party are clear to their voters as to what might happen with tolls, and how to finance the way in which any civil government can. Is it such that the Right shall continue to cancel the main heart issues of the Advance Party? I think the voters actually deserve an answer to that. I think there are a lot of people who in that way could be at risk of having a blue-man's day after the election, if that doesn't happen. I think that respect for the voters, the political opponents and for the election campaign in general should be addressed. So I want to challenge Right: Is it like this that you intend to cancel the tolllifts to the Progress Party, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e709	The next speaker is the representative, Magne Rommetveit, who now has a speaking time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e712	My time is not over. I'm a case spokesman, and then I'm going to have 3 minutes – as many times as I want, and as many times as I need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e717	That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e720	Again: Thank you for a good debate. Pre-claimed tolls are the best tolls you can have. Of course – cash is fine, but of tolls, the pre-claimed ones are the best. So a little bit to this when the growth comes – which both Terje Halleland and Bård Hoksrud have made a very good point. The growth comes at random. When one opens a connection where it has been a ferry, there is a strong growth in traffic, because one has been dependent on ferry times and ferries that were to go. But it's also the day a relationship is settled, then there's also a big growth – and then there's growth between there. But it almost sounds like those who talk a lot about this, don't know all about it, and have felt on the body what it means to not be dependent on the ferry. I live on an island, and when we got the Triangulation twelve years ago, they could in Bømlo, Fitjar, Stord, Sveio, Haugesund, Karmøy, Tysvær and several others hang in both good and bad, without having to fit in the ferry season. Then there was a growth in both traffic, relationships between people and businesses, in cultural life, in all of this. So the day the connection is settled, we're obviously getting an extra growth. But it's growing all the time, it's just important to build these connections, and that's why it's also going in even advance to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e733	I thought that the debate in this room was about whether or not to support a case. The right is criticized for taking the word too many times. I think that’s a little strange – even though the Right was credited for having had a good post. Is it not clear that the Right supports this matter? Aren't we really done with what we think about that matter? If any of you expect us to conduct government negotiations on a matter relating to a tunnel in the West, you have to wait a long time, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e738	Yes, let's really hope that Monday after the election will be a really good and blue Monday! At least that's something we're going to work for. But then to the principle of tolls. The principle of the use of tolls should we take over and understand that it is extremely expensive. In every project that this hall adopts, you can at least add on about 34-35 pst. in the case of additional charges related to interest and collection fees – 35 pst. on average every time we decide. I guess this government has never cared much about how to spend other people's money, because that's what we're actually discussing. The fissure layer that this government adds to, that is to say, the government can help with a little bit of soft cake, but pinada, and the drivers will take the rest – or 90 pst. Others' money is not at all interested in this government. They are only a black player’s game in relation to the state and the state’s money – which clearly has far greater values than the money found in the car’s trunks. Let's hope that Monday after the election will be a really good and nice blue Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e751	Rommetveld suggested that he had plenty of speaking time, so I thought that it might be possible to challenge the representative a little bit in an important debate. It's about what function we have, and what happens to our society when we've introduced tolls. The triangular link is a project that the representative knows very well. What I could imagine challenging the representative is: when the tolls have been removed on this project, does the representative expect that there will be greater traffic growth in the connection than it was before, when the tolls were there? If the representative says yes, my question is: Has society on Stord lost its toll in the last 13 years, or hasn't it? If they've lost money, my question is, does the representative think this is good social development?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e758	The representative of Kjell Arvid Svendsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e762	Tolls are expensive, says the representative Fredriksen. If we talk about this project that we are discussing today, pre-recovery to E39 Rogfast, go about. 1 pst. to operate the bombing company. It's pre-collection, there's no interest costs, and there's interest income on it. If you talk about this case, this is a total bomb. This is incredibly cheap. Under 1 pst. of these tolls actually goes to the operation of the toll company. This is a reasonable project. Christian People's Party supports the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e767	To Halleland: Yes, traffic is increasing now when it is free. People run – if not crazy, they run in one, at least, because nothing keeps them back. What if we've been losing for 12 years? No! No! When the triangle was constructed, we crossed over from paying the ferry ticket to pay for the triangle connection. We then got a growth, and the business world and everything around has grown up at that time. The alternative would be that we should have paid on ferries forever. On the ferry we also had to pay for passengers in the car. This has been a win-win. If it were by the Progress Party method, it would have disappeared. Again: Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e774	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e788	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e797	Here it's just about transportation projects in the West to $9.5 billion. kr, but it is not a minor matter for it. At previous times, the size has also raised issues about the Bergen programme, but in this proposition proposals are made for the extension and further funding of the Bergen programme, among others. with a third stage of the Urban Railway, and furthermore the biggest changes within the toll tariffs and the discount schemes are linked to them. The city railway has been a major success for Bergen, both as an efficient and environmentally sound public transport system, but also as an important factor in achieving desired urban development. For the south corridor in Bergen, the Cityban will be the main trunk of the public transport system. With the third stage completed, the Urban Railway will appear as a significantly better collective offer also for Bergen Airport, Flesland. Start-up is planned at this stage now for the current year, and completion with start-up for traffic is set to 2016. The second stage of Ringveg west, a tunnel stretch of about 4.3 km between Sandeide and Liavatnet, is also part of the proposition, and he is planned to open up for traffic in 2015. Programme areas are also an important part of the Bergen programme. These mainly include minor measures along the existing road, environmental measures at the centre, walking and cycling roads and less collective and traffic safety measures. In addition, the planning of new projects and actions will take place here, and not least the important work on further planning of the Urban Railway. So the biggest change now is the change in rates and discount rates. The municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland add to the changes applied for, up to an increase in the fares for light driving goods from NOK 5 to NOK 25 and from NOK 30 to NOK 50 for driving goods over NOK 3 500. Furthermore, advance payment discounts are reduced from 40 and 30 pst. until 20 pst. These changes shall facilitate the continuous development of the third stage of the Urban Railway and the fact that, in accordance with the plan of measures for reward, the changes shall also act as a restrictive instrument for reducing road traffic in the Bergen region. The Skansen Tunnel from the Bergen Centre and up to the area north of Bryggen is an environmental and development project designed to relieve the traffic hub, but it is also a goal to reduce conflicts with cultural memory, the cultural environment and soft road users. There are still no approved plans with the corresponding cost estimates for the project, and the costs are also very uncertain at this time. It is estimated that this position will not be used to finance the Skansen tunnel in this proposition. The Skansen tunnel is part of the Bergen programme, but it must continue to be planned in order for one to return to Stortinget when sufficient clarifications are needed. The financial envelope for the Bergen programme is 9 420 million. kr converted to 2013 price level. There are no national means in the Bergen programme after the administrative reform has been implemented. The state part of the funding takes place through the framework contribution to the county and through funds from the reward scheme. The mountain program is a toll package where the size of the extension must, of course, be adapted to the economic framework. Current projects and actions need to be assessed in a step-by-step manner, and socio-economic profitability needs to be given priority to projects. All parties represented in the Transport and Communications Committee, except the Progress Party, are behind the setting as it currently stands. I would like to make it clear that the proposals on which the proposition is based are recommended by the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland following local political management in the winter of 2012. I assume that the Progress Party itself will do well for its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e823	I take up the proposal of the Advance Party from the vote. The Progress Party believes that the transport system in the largest cities is a state responsibility. The Progress Party therefore believes that the continuation of the Bergen programme, which concerns the transport system in Bergen, should be financed by the State and not by the drivers using the road network in Bergen, in particular because the main measure of this package is the further development of the Urban Railway; collective action and not road action. The Progress Party believes that the drivers do not have to pay any special taxes to build a decent road network, or further development of the Urban Railway in Bergen. Let me add: It is regrettable that what is not included in this toll package is the completion of Ringveg west. There is a lack of funding for the third and last of three construction steps. There's also 900 million missing. NOK to get this in place. The Progress Party has considered and believes that the construction of the metro to Flesland is a small scheme of action. The Progress Party has considered and believes that the Urban Railway is an action that does not respond to the major challenges of the Bergen and Bergens regions in passenger transport for decades to come. The Progress Party notes that the government leaves to a political majority, local and regional, to choose the urban route rather than the bus-based system; to choose the ‘light rail’ rather than the railway connected to the national rail network. As the case stands, the Progress Party believes that the most important thing now is to ensure that the drivers do not pay this extra tax, and that the State takes the bill for the further development of decent transport networks in Norway's second largest city. The Progress Party continues to believe that the Urban Railway is a small scheme of action. The continuation of the Bergen collective effort in terms of rail-based solution is of the opinion that the Progress Party should be connected by rail to existing rail networks. The Progress Party recommends rail through the district of Füllingsdalen, where there are 30,000 people, and up to Flesland airport, which is the second largest in the country, via Sandsli and Kokstad. Then Bergen gets flights and local trains to the Füllingsdalen. When there is a new freight port in Flesland, it is also possible to link the rail to the port and co-locate it with a new railway terminal in Bergen outside the centre. The Progress Party also believes that the railway should be passed on to Åsane, where there are 40,000 people. The progress party also believes that a new Ringveg east and a new Ringveg south must be built as soon as possible to put in place a fully-fledged ring road system in Bergen. It is in this way that the major transport and environmental challenges in Bergen and the Bergens region can be met in a good and effective way. The Progress Party believes that much of the public transport in Bergen still needs to be done by bus. Then it is important that the roads in Bergen are expanded and that the state takes responsibility for road development, including the financial responsibility. The Progress Party notes that the effect of the Urban Railway from the 2011 opening has not been measured. The bus network has been significantly converted into a suburb. Direct bus routes have been replaced by matebuses to the urban runway. The number of accesses has increased, but no documented effect on the collective share in Bergen: in the southern part of the townway and in the urban track itself. The Party considers that it is unwise to choose further development without the availability of power measurements. Full urban runway is not a confirmation of a higher collective share when the bus-based solution is replaced by bus-to-road and when more than one passenger gets more roundabouts. The Progress Party is proposing state full funding for the third part of the Bergen programme, which we are discussing today. The progress party rejects the fact that the users in Bergen will pay 5 800 million. NOK to make a contribution of scarcely 3000 million. kr for the implementation of the projects in the package – where the road is the smallest investment area – and that they will pay more than 2 200 million. NOK in interest payable and SEK 600 million. kr i collection. It is this bill that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are cheering for the drivers, the business community and the employees to pay. The party of progress believes that this is economically unnecessary and unduly expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e846	The representative of Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e849	There will be a lot of praise to the case-rapporteur, Mr Rommetveit, today, but he will tolerate it. The majority and the Right join his remarks. On my first committee tour with the transport committee last time, I, along with some others here, had the joy of a great tour in Hordaland, where the first thing we did was have a public meeting and open hearing in Eidfjord about Hardangerbrua. Then we went on to Bergen and had a hearing on the City Railway. I am pleased to note that the city track is finished and that Hardangerbrua will open soon, so it is at least possible to get something done in a few periods. What's nice to notice is that there's a broad local connection to the further development of the Urban Railway, and the Right will of course support it when we know that the Right is reasonably central in both county and city policies in Bergen. I would like to add that we are pleased that the Skansen tunnel is mentioned in this case, but that it is of course necessary to return to Stortinget with sufficient clarification when the matter is ready. What is important is that it is established that the Skansen Tunnel is an important environmental and urban development project to relieve the traffic centres. Therefore, the Right will be very concerned about the completion of that project. In our opinion, the city railway has been a success. That is why we also support the development of a third stage towards Flesland. There are many other ways of transporting passengers to Flesland that could be relevant, but now the Urban Railway is there, and it is a good and decent tool in Bergen. I also remember debates with Sortevik about other forms of transport – without rails, but with wheels – and it's exciting thoughts, but now we have a city track, and we want to develop it further. We support the comments on this matter and join the broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e862	I join the Right in commending the Labour Party's case-speaker Rommetveit in this matter: well presented to us, and well conducted in the Committee. The city course has been a great success so far, not least on investments along the line. There are actually a lot of businesses being established, and the plots are incredibly attractive. It also makes it possible for the Urban Railway to meet what is in the climate agreement, on which all parties except the Progress Party are involved, to take the growth of cities collectively. It's also very positive with SV's eyes. That possibility has one now. In the same way as Greece, I think well of the committee we were at in Hardanger, and of Hordaland in connection with the Bergen meeting and the mood that the Progress Party and an own counter-urban party created in 2006. One might almost believe that the world would go under if the city railway were built. The world did not go under, but I understand at the Progress Party that they are still partly against the Urban and think that it must be contrary to the slogan of the Progress Party: «We are renewing Norway». It doesn't sound like you want to be on the renewal that is now taking place in Bergen in connection with the Urban Line. Finally, a little bit about tolls: when it comes to clean and rank, which the Progress Party is now trying to be, it starts to become more and more problematic for the Progress Party. One has now gone in to have a piece in heavier cars, with which to run without it being used, but which everyone should have. So one sits on different boards, for example. in Rogaland, where the Progress Party has the board of directors of the Toll Company, which is thus ‘buying’ money from the Billistan but is administered by the Progress Party – obviously with pleasure when it is built so much. So I imagine it's not long before the Progress Party will go in so that the Billistan not only buy the piece, and have the piece, but also that they will use the piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e873	The mountain area is facing significant growth in population and traffic in the years to come. The main challenge is to manage the growth of the population through an adapted, efficient and environmentally friendly transport system. Since the establishment of the programme in 1986, a number of major projects have been carried out in Bergen and the extended Bergen programme now facilitates the further development of a comprehensive transport system in which collective provision and provision of pedestrians and cyclists will be important elements. The urban railway shall constitute the main trunk of the public transport system in Bergen. With the third stage, which includes the Raadal-Flesland route, the Urban Railway will provide a significantly better collective offer to and from Bergen airport, Flesland. It is planned to start works this year, with planned traffic opening in 2016. Actions in the programme areas mainly include minor actions along existing roads, environmental measures in centres, pedestrian and cycle roads, and less collective and road safety measures. In addition, funds are provided for the planning of new projects, including for the further planning of the Urban Railway. With the exception of plans for the extension of the Bus Station in Bergen, no other measures are specified. It has been suggested that concrete priorities should be given in the context of subsequent revisions of the action programme and in the context of the annual budget and the annual construction programme. The second stage of Ringveg west comprises the 4,3 km long line between Sandeide and Liavatnet in the tunnel and is planned for traffic in 2015. The third stage funding was not included in the toll application from the municipality of Bergen and the county of Hordaland and is therefore not included in this proposition. The Skansen tunnel project is a tunnel from the Bergen centre to the area north of Bryggen, and it is part of the Bergen programme. However, there are no approved plans with the associated cost estimates for the project and both trajectory choices and costs are uncertain. There have therefore not been sufficient clarifications to allow the project to undergo external quality assurance, KS2, and the Ministry of Transport assumes that the project is not financed by the financial envelope for this proposition. However, the case will be referred to the Stortinget when sufficient clarifications are available. The financial envelope for the period 2012-2025 is approximately EUR 9.4 billion. kr, including 3 bn. kr in county funds and SEK 5.8 billion. kr in tolls. The framework also includes funds from the State reward scheme. The framework for overall urban environmental agreements, presented in the national transport plan, which will be dealt with in the Stortinget later this spring, will be used as a basis for the possible renegotiation of the Bergen programme after 2013. It implies that one should set a target of reducing car traffic and investing in public transport, and that this will be a prerequisite for future negotiations on the urban environment agreement between state and urban areas, which will once again form the basis for long-term partnerships between cities and the state. In the toll proposal, it is proposed to increase the rates for light-duty vehicles from 15 to 25 kroner and for heavy-duty vehicles from 30 to 50 kroner. The amendments facilitate the continuous development of the third stage of the Urban Railway and will also act as a restrictive instrument to reduce road traffic in the Bergen region, in accordance with the action plan for the follow-up to the Agreement on Rewarding Means for the period 2011-2014. I attach great importance to the local policy commitment to extending the Bergen programme. The Bergens region is one of the most important economic, competence and innovation regions in the country. The region is in strong development, and there is expected to be strong growth in population and traffic, and at the same time there are periods of acute pollution problems in central areas. The extension of the Bergen programme will underpin the objectives of the long-term development of the transport system in the Bergens region. On top of that, I would like to thank the Committee for a quick and good discussion of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e899	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e902	One of the last things the Council of State had in mind, namely that there will be a good impact of some of the measures in the third programme package, I agree. This is precisely why the absence of government funds in the third part of the Bergen programme is quite amazing, especially in relation to what the government itself says in the NTP, which we have for separate treatment, where it is, among other things. Names – I quote from Chapter 9 on the urban areas: ‘The Government therefore opens up State investment aid through the overall urban environment agreements to county public infrastructure of high national interest, for example’ – and here are several examples – ‘urban railway in Bergen’. Does that mean that we can get investment support on arrears for this third part of the Bergen programme, or is it about maybe once in the future for further stages? I would like to have a clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e912	First of all, let me stress that although there are no longer State funds for road and rail projects, overall, in the Bergen programme in the period 2011-2014, there is a total of nearly half a billion dollars in state resources for Bergen through the reward scheme. It is true, as Mr Sortevik says, that in the years to come there is a greater possibility than ever before of negotiating for urban environmental agreements, which will mean a greater share of state resources, but we cannot, on our own, anticipate the treatment the Storting should have of the national transport plan. First, we have to deal with the national transport plan, and then the government hopes that it is possible to have a dialogue between the state and the major urban areas in terms of urban environmental agreements, because there will be an increased share of resources, but also a greater degree of long-termity, which I think a number of urban areas will seem to be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e920	Thanks for the answer. But in this third part of the Bergen program that we're dealing with today, there's an investment in the urban railway network of over 4 billion. kr. And it's obvious that to the extent that the state will also contribute investment aid through urban environmental agreements, the bill that is now being added to the driving lists over the almost 15 years could change dramatically. Therefore, it is still strange that there are no more clear signals of state involvement than what we see in this package, and that it is kept out of the way. So it would still be interesting to get a little more obligatory statement if you could expect help to reduce this toll bill that you're now adding to the car lists, or if this will be at the next stages, for a further expansion of the Urban Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e925	There are really some simple reasons why you can't anticipate things anymore today. Firstly, one cannot prejudge the handling of the National Transport Plan by the Storting, which deals with the large-scale approach proposed by the government to urban areas. Secondly, you cannot anticipate negotiations that may not have been completed. If you are going to have real negotiations, they must also be carried out before any mention is made of increased State contributions. This means that if one is to keep progress in urban development as it now stands, the proposal that is to be adopted today is the best proposal. Any pre-emption of new NTP interventions would have delayed the development of the Urban Railway. The proposals of the Progress Party to make this a state matter would also have delayed the development of the Urban Railway and thus the implementation of the entire Bergen Programme, which I think both the people of Bergen and the political authorities of Bergen and Hordaland County would have been very dissatisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e930	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e946	I can comfort the congregation that I should not hold on for 30 minutes. The Committee has a unanimous position here and, in short, this matter concerns some amendments to the Transport Code. It's about: Carriers seeking authorisation for the carriage of persons and goods by road pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of the Professional Transport Act shall be established in Norway. Authorisation is granted for the establishment and operation of an electronic register of road transport operators. Permission is granted to the privileges of the Board of Permits to declare persons who have unlawfully infringed the law unfit to conduct transport operations in all EEA countries. These are the changes in the law in brief. Otherwise there has been a certain debate about the transfer of privileges, and here the Committee joins the recommendations available; moving some of them from the county to the state, and otherwise the committee unanimously joins the department's proposal for amendments to the professional transport law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e972	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e986	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e993	In a modern society, access to high-speed broadband is one of the prerequisites for a varied business environment. It is also one of the most important things for settlement throughout the country. In many cases, it is vital for young people to settle. It is also very important for infrastructure, and there is a clear link between broadband development, industrial development and economic growth. High-speed broadband is perhaps the strongest means of regional policy we can deal with. High-speed broadband offers unique opportunities for industrial development in districts and provides rural areas with the same opportunities as central areas. A study based on data from 33 OECD countries shows that each doubling of the broadband rate produces a growth in gross domestic product of 0,3 pst. Furthermore, IT and digital competence are central building blocks in the modernisation of the public sector and traditional industry. Econ Pöyry concluded in a report for FAD that, as a climate tool, IT provides the opportunity to contribute to smaller transport of people and goods, which can contribute to large emissions reductions. All of this requires access to a faster broadband. Although mobile broadband offers increasing speeds, it is fibre transmission that will meet the future needs of industry, of the education sector and of the modernisation of the public sector. Fibre also uses only 25 pst. of the energy compared to the ADSL, which is another type of broadband transmission. 70-90 pst. of the total cost of broadband deployment is related to excavation and carry-over. Electronics, cables and other equipment are only between 10 and 30 pst. Excavation costs depend on physical conditions in the site, but also on the municipal excavation code. When different municipalities have different requirements, this prevents the transmission of broadband. We therefore believe that it is urgent to put in place such a regulation for the whole country. We are aware that the department is working on the matter, but we think it has taken an unlikely long time. Already in 2007, a regulation was sent to the hearing of the Directorate of Roads. This was withdrawn in 2010, and we are pleased, because it was not very well suited. It had such great demands for overcovering and digging depth that it was almost impossible to carry out the running of broadband after it. But now we're back in 2013, and it's been three years since the draft was withdrawn. We think that's too long. The unfortunate thing is that some municipalities have implemented this draft – since there was no more – as a guide, and this has led to a complete stoppage of some sites in the country. It is therefore urgent to introduce a national regulation in this area. In our proposal, we also point out that methods have now been developed that make the development both faster and much cheaper. The method is called ‘microtrenching’ and assumes that a small slit is tempted into the asphalt, the fibre cable is then applied down, and it is filled with cover – all in one operation. This is a method that is particularly suitable in built-in strips. There is currently doubt as to whether this is an approved method, and it is therefore very small in scope. The Ministry states in its letter of reply that such a rule should apply to the entire public road network. We think that's good. It is also proposed that road authorities should be allowed to require additional drawbars to be laid when a cable seier digs on public roads. That's good, too. In my time as rapporteur, we were told that any excavation along the way would involve the laying of traction pipes, and it has proved to be very profitable in retrospect. The Ministry also states that the proposal of the State Road Administration does not directly prohibit «microtrnching». We think that's a little defensive, we think it should have been recommended in such areas. We are aware that it is not appropriate along the gravel roads, but still. We are pleased that there is now movement in the matter, but we are very little satisfied with the time it has taken to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1019	It is a small tragedy that Norway, as a nation, does not place more emphasis on broadband and fibre than what we have done under the prevailing government. The Progress Party has made proposals for a national broadband lift, which unfortunately was voted down. A well-developed broadband has become a prerequisite for a varied business and residence throughout the country. In fact, the development of broadband as fibre will be crucial for where young people choose to live in the future. There is a clear link between broadband development, business development and economic growth. A study by Copenhagen Economics states that gross domestic product will increase by 146 billion. kr if the speed is extended to 50 megabits per second by 2015 across the country. For comparison, 50 megabits per second is a much lower target than what Sweden and Finland want to expand. If you choose to expand by 100 megabits per second, the growth in GDP will be much higher. Unfortunately, we have a government that doesn't understand the significance of what billion gain you're actually missing. With an investment of between 7 billion. kr and 14 br. kr, GDP will increase by nearly 150 billion. kr in a few years. The development of broadband today is about thinking in the long term, but it may be too much demanded by a government that is unable to see the difference in investment, use and maintenance. One side of the issue is that the government does not have the power to see the investment need. On the other hand, this government is countering large parts of broadband development with laws and regulations that neither create predictability nor equalise the various development actors. The regulatory basis is currently largely identical with and as unbalanced as the Directorate’s original 2007 proposal. This means that broadband actors who expand broadband as fibre and who largely use the road network as infrastructure have to deal with Section 32 of the Road Law that regulates these conditions. This means that the different broadband actors have to deal with different practices in our 428 municipalities, which are responsible for both decisions and complaints. This clearly leads to different interpretations and extreme price increases for the builders. When the municipality of Drammen introduced the grave instruction in line with the draft regulation, this led to a cost increase of 385 pst. It doesn't much like predictability. There is also little doubt that the use of microtrnching will lead to significantly faster and cheaper development, but then the government will have to sort out the digging regulations so that they are arranged in such a way that they take into account the needs of the industry, and not as they are today, that the regulations help to train the entire development. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1038	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1041	As the rapporteur explained, broadband is important for value creation and, I would say, for the quality of life of young and old alike. An increasing number of people want to use network connectivity for reading newspapers, online banking and business-related operations. Therefore, where it is important that we continue the promise made in terms of broadband development. The government has granted well over 1 billion in recent years. kr for broadband expansion, as well as starting the digital dividend, which will provide mobile broadband in large parts of the country. Clear decisions have also been made to continue expanding broadband where mobile frequencies do not reach out. It's very important. The management code that this Document 8 is about is important to get in place. It's an entire committee that's impatient to put it in place with regulations. It is also important that the regulations provide for the opening of the most appropriate technology. It's a clear message from everyone, really. With this, I address the Workers' Party, SV and the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1052	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1055	A well-developed digital infrastructure is a key prerequisite for ensuring access to both private and public services and the ability to participate fully in current and future societies. Therefore, it is also the government's ambition that all households should have access to broadband of basic good quality. The development of broadband in Norway has been largely market-based, but it has also produced good results. Broadband coverage is among the best in Europe. At the same time, we should recognise that there are areas that either do not have a good enough broadband offer or where there is scope for major improvements. These include: large geographical differences. One of the most important measures in the future to improve access to digital infrastructure is the allocation of available frequencies to mobile broadband. Here the government has set a coverage requirement of 98 pst. for a block in the 800 MHz band and it is expected that an auction will take place during the next six months. Another important action is the grants existing in the area of the Ministry of Local Government for broadband development, which since 2007 have been worth 100 million. kr, which from the current year is increased and continued to 150 million. kr per year. The grants will be targeted at those areas where commercial operators do not find it profitable to expand without grants. Both the allocation of available frequencies on mobile broadband and the grant for broadband deployment will be important for the whole country, because, inter alia: are located outside the territorial policy scope, for which the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is responsible, which also has considerable difficulty in obtaining high-quality broadband. I have noted the Committee's comments on access to fast and easy deployment of broadband capacity across the country. It is also a fact that, when the road is used as a conveyor gauze for broadband, the government is also responsible for taking into account that digging does not impair the quality and safety of the road. Thus, both broadband deployment, accessibility and road safety needs to be ensured at the same time, and it has not always proved to be as simple. As explained in my reply to the Stortingen of 24 April, you have to make a little distinction between what is the regulation and the draft supervisor in this context. The so-called ‘guide’ rule applies not only to broadband but to all cables and pipes connected to telephony, water, sewerage, district heating power, gas etc. The regulation itself applies to all infrastructure in all public roads, closer to public roads than three metres from the edge of the road. On the other hand, the technical provisions relating to burial depth are not dealt with in the regulation but in the guide, and the guide applies as such only to the highways. A Joint Committee stresses the importance of accessing road-grounds for development companies without over-blocking. At the same time, the Committee expresses a strong understanding that the veggie must also make sure that the roadway does not deteriorate, after digging in order to lay tracts. Grave depth and cover requirements, as it was formulated in previous drafts to the supervisor, would provide very costly solutions. I share the Committee's view that similar legislation across the country is important. There has been considerable disagreement between the State Road Service and the management industry on the technical provisions. In this context, the Ministry has also considered it appropriate to have an external assessment, in which case Sintef has carried out a project on behalf of the Ministry. The report has now been consulted and the Ministry will shortly receive the final material from SINTEF. I understand that some representatives of the management industry prefer that the supervisor also apply to the entire road network. It is true that the content of the guide is so general that it is also suitable for roads other than the national road network, but it must be borne in mind that there may be other provisions relating to the part of the road network of which the State is not the owner, which must also be taken into account. Having regard to the wording of the government parties that the most appropriate technology is used, I also believe that the conditions for technical requirements must vary slightly from line types, road types and excavation techniques. It is not difficult to admit that this case has taken a long time. It is not difficult to recognise that it is important to move forward with industry actors and for road authorities, in order to increase predictability in this area, also in the light of the new technologies on the market. The Ministry therefore aims to establish the Regulation with the supervisor before the summer holiday. This is a matter of high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1081	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1084	ICT Norway has more or less slaughtered today's digging regulations, and believes that they are unbalanced, represents too little predictability – that things have taken too long. I very much appreciate what the Council here says, that you can expect the regulations to be completed before the summer. But then the question is: will these regulations be such that industry is actually given predictability, and that the regulations are balanced, so that we can get a forced expansion of fiber in Norway, preferably through ‘microtrnching’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1091	There is no problem to admit that this has taken a long time. There have in part been strong interests that have stood against each other, and it has been difficult to come up with solutions that are balanced in view of both interests. I am of the opinion that it is now important that a decision be made. There will be no decision with which one of the actors is fully satisfied, which I do not think is possible, but it must be a decision that is so balanced that it is possible for the actors – on both sides – to live with it, i.e. both the Road Service and the line industry, to take the necessary account of the roads, while at the same time giving broadband operators the opportunity to develop infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1099	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1104	I would like to thank the Council of State for its presentation – and to the extent that it answers. Now, if the regulations and the supervisor come out before the summer break, we're very happy about that. The Council of State explained the status of the case, that the case is now being assessed by SINTEF because there are forces that have opposed each other. She also explained that the supervisor applies to all roads, but that the state is not responsible for all the roads. That is quite right, because in the context of the administrative reform there was relatively little left by the roads of the country. But now the matter is that the county councils were not given so much road competence with this change, that is. that they depend on the state road services as a professional authority in most of what they do. In other words, the state road system, which then represents the state, would like to exert its influence vis-à-vis the county municipalities. So it's kind of the State Road Administration that's going to lay down the framework for what the county councils – and to the extent that the municipalities – are doing. We hope that the regulation will become as valid as possible, so that it will end the obstacles that we have experienced up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1113	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1127	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1136	In this case, representatives Erna Solberg, Svein Flätten, Torgeir Dahl and Michael Tetzschner promote eight proposals for new ideas and better solutions for public sector acquisitions. In Norway, the public sector carries out purchases for about 400 billion. kr per year. The petroleum sector is then excluded. The share of the municipal sector in annual purchases is about 145 billion. kr. Overall, procurement in the public sector constitutes 15 pst. of gross domestic product. The total purchasing power of the public sector means that it is very important that small and medium-sized enterprises also participate in public acquisitions. Norwegian business consists of about 500000 enterprises, and 99,5 pst. of these enterprises, enterprises with fewer than 100 employees. Participation of small businesses in public sector supplies can help them develop into national and international success stories. The proposers therefore believe that a Small Doffin should be established for the publication of simple and unbureaucratic tenders below the threshold of DKK 500000. At the same time, the proposers consider it important that the complaint procedures relating to the conclusion of public contracts also ensure legal certainty for small and medium-sized enterprises. They are critical that the government has placed the competence for the imposition of an infringement fee on illegal direct acquisitions under the EU Enforcement Directive to the courts and that the appeal body for public acquisitions, KOFA, can no longer impose an infringement fee and thus become a purely advisory body. The proposers indicate that this conversion has led to a decrease in the number of public procurement complaints of more than 66 p.p. and that this may be due to the fact that the threshold for appeals in the procurement field has increased when enforcement is in the courts. In particular, it could affect the legal certainty of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, the proposers consider it important to make public procurement procedures as simple and cost-effective as possible. They specifically mention measures to avoid double registration and double reporting of documentation from companies submitting tenders. Furthermore, they refer to a report from the Menon Analysis Institute, which shows that public savings can be made at 30 billion dollars. kr per year by professionalising public procurement procedures. The proposers therefore believe that a ‘acquisition academy’ should be set up for staff with a public sector responsibility. In this way, a coherent training and competence development programme for public acquisitions can be established. Both the Committee and the proposers agree that the public can contribute to innovation-promoting acquisitions. It can be achieved by including functional requirements specifications in calls for tender rather than detailed technical specifications of solutions. This will facilitate public and private innovation cooperation. The majority, consisting of the government parties, believe that this has already been done well through the mandate of the Directorate for Administration and ICT – Diffi – and the guidance material developed by diffi. The proposals from the Right, with the support of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that there is still a great potential for improvement and progress in this area. The Christian People's Party supports all of the eight proposals that will be promoted later in the debate. In particular, we will stress the importance of a continuous focus on efficiency and simplification in the public sector. The NHO has estimated that Norwegian enterprises have a total annual cost related to compliance with public requirements and rules of around 60 billion. kr. The government has a goal of reducing these costs by 10 billion. kr by the end of 2015. Everything suggests that the 5 billion cost reduction objective. kr will not be reached before the end of the ageing period. This is because reductions and simplifications are too late, and new regulations and burdens are still being introduced which make the reduction too slow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1162	In this case – Document 8:45 S, on new ideas and better solutions for acquisitions in the public sector – the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have agreed and presented a number of proposals. There are proposals that make us – i.e. the public – may manage expenditure and investment in a better way, and that those who receive these services are given the right amount, quality, price, etc., and that the suppliers who can offer these services, whether in the form of goods or physical services, have the opportunity to compete on equal terms. In this way, taxpayers will also be more satisfied – when they see that the money they pay in the form of taxes and taxes to the public is spent in the best possible way and managed in a good commercial manner. When one knows that government purchases over 400 billion. kr every year, and that this number is increasing also for every year, is the very large number we are talking about. There is so much that we are up to about a percentage of Norway’s gross domestic product. 15 pst. Around the municipalities of Norway, procurement managers are best placed to manage their funds with their budgets. It's a demanding job, and many times they probably want the posts to be a lot bigger. They try to get as much as possible, and sometimes they have to get out of the municipality, maybe out of the county and maybe even out of the country to get the best deals. This is a two-sided case, for it is to be purchased at the cheapest and good quality, while local providers sometimes fail to compete on price. This means that local jobs can be lost. However, there should be no doubt that competition is a positive tool to ensure efficient public use of resources and at the same time contributes to high value creation in society. Individual companies have to compete every day and be the best in quality, service and price. Norwegian business is very different from what type of business you have and how large it is. It is estimated that Norwegian business is made up of around 500,000 enterprises. It goes without saying that they're all, most of these are small. There may be an advantage for such enterprises when they are able to adapt quickly to public demand and thus offer their services at a reasonable price. The problem for these smaller enterprises is, among other things: that they are not always aware of what is being asked. That is why one of the proposals presented here today is to create a simple and user-friendly Little Doffin. The promotion party is concerned that public funds are being used in the best possible way, while at the same time we want fair competition between those who can provide the required services and goods. Therefore, the Progress Party agrees that a complaint subject for public acquisitions, KOFA, should be established as a binding appeal body in order to strengthen uniform interpretation and effective enforcement of the procurement law, inter alia. to prevent corruption and to strengthen the legal protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. Otherwise, I refer to the other good suggestions and hope that they will have a majority here today. If they don't get it, I think I won't be very wrong when I say that many of these proposals we will look again after the autumn's choice. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Advance Party is promoting together with the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1181	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1184	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for a very thorough presentation of an important topic. Public acquisitions shall ensure the proper price and quality of Community services. At the same time, it should contribute to good use of resources for society as a whole. In addition, it shall stimulate service and product innovation. These are the key criteria for procurement as large as public procurement every year — up to 400 billion. kr, as pointed out by the rapporteur-general. In addition, it should also be kept in mind that new growth industries can be accommodated in this competition, that jobs can be ensured throughout the country, and not least that risks inherent in those purchases are reduced if the public sector itself produces goods and services for which general competition can rather be created. Competition always ensures efficient use of resources, including in the public domain, and should therefore be as competitive as possible. This means that assessment criteria are required in tendering procedures. But good rules and enforcement processes are not enough, there is also a need to focus on innovation and innovation in processes. It is essential for small enterprises to be able to participate in competition so that they can develop. Then there is one of the proposals here, about the so-called Little Doffin, as an unbureaucratic way for small businesses to compete in the big competition that public procurement represents every year. But it is a prerequisite that there will then be real and fair competition and not least an easily accessible complaint system. For its part, the right has always been sceptical about adding the competence to impose an infringement fee on illegal direct acquisitions to the courts, thus making KOFA a purely advisory body. We believe that there is a weakening of uniform interpretation and enforcement of the legislation. It may give rise to regional and other differences in decision-making. In addition, of course, there is an increase in the threshold for complaints about procurement cases, and this has also been shown to be so far. That is why, by this crossroads, we propose to re-establish the KOFA as a binding body of complaint. Of course, it will also strengthen the legal protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. Public–private innovation cooperation is important. New services can then be developed jointly between enterprises and the purchasing authorities. It strengthens the innovation power of industry and it strengthens product development. I refer you to the Research Council, which has published a report that shows that Norway is far behind other Nordic countries in acquiring experience and operating with innovative acquisitions. One of the proposals in the range of proposals we have here is that a guide is being developed for this, just as we want guidelines for requirements specifications to be developed in order to develop products and services in just such an innovation cooperation between the parties. The rapporteur has managed very well to bring together the entire opposition to these proposals with a view to improving today's resource use in public procurement. The Council of State is very pleased with the state of things in its reply to the committee. She believes that the strategy has been put in place and does not want to respond to any of the opposition’s operational proposals that could fill any of these strategies, which propose measures that could make everyday life easier for smaller Norwegian companies, and which could not least have a positive impact on innovation, product development, increased profitability, increased competitiveness – yes, all these criteria that we demand every day in terms of the two-track economy, the mainland economy and the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. Public acquisitions each year are key to such innovation and competitiveness, which is why these eight proposals are very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1197	Public procurement is about 15 pst. of gross domestic product and is therefore an important part of the work we have to develop Norwegian business. Public procurement is primarily intended to contribute to the provision of good and affordable goods and services to the public, but it is also clear that a sector that accounts for so much of gross domestic product can easily also be used to develop Norwegian business. I think there's a good deal here in the hall that public procurement is a key factor in promoting innovation in the business world. Public procurement can contribute to the development of competitive and innovative suppliers. This, in turn, can contribute to their being accommodated in an international market. We can make sure that we get this kind of development in different ways. The proposer is busy that the public needs to be better able to specify what functions you want, and not specify solutions. This is important, and the government is gripping it. The Directorate of Administration and ICT has been given a clear mandate to be a driver of public activities in this area. They shall help with innovation-enhancing purchases. As part of this work, the Directorate has developed a step-by-step guide for innovative procurement. The guide emphasises that public contractors engage in dialogue with the market and develop meeting places. This work will continue with the recent innovation strategy. Here I understand that what has already been put into practice is by far one of the things that the proposers include in their proposal. I want to go a little further when it comes to what has been stressed in the government's strategy, simply to create meeting places. The establishment of clusters, where enterprises, research environments and users can be met, are very important venues for the development of innovative products and purchases. Medical Centers Oslo is an example of such a cluster. The government supports such clusters through various cluster schemes, such as Arena, NCE and other support schemes, through the Research Council and through Innovation Norway. I have personal experience working in a research environment where the business community and the specialist services work together. What you can see is that when people from different environments meet, there is innovation. I have several good examples that by creating the kind of arenas that create a way of thinking about both at the purchaser and at the supplier, which means that we achieve exactly what we all want, that we should use public procurement to develop innovation in business, so that they can gain competitiveness into an international market. It is also important to use the possibilities available for development contracts. The system of public development contracts is a good tool for innovation. Around the country, there are good examples of local actors, small and medium-sized enterprises, having concluded public development contracts, having been able to take up – has been able to create products and new markets – and has become important players in the market, starting with a public development contract. An evaluation carried out by the analysis institute Oxford Research, which came last year, shows that the OFU initiative has achieved its objectives. It is concluded that the OFU programme has helped to create more competitive suppliers in Norway. What I started by saying was that there is a broad consensus that public procurement can contribute to innovation in private business. The copies I have drawn up clearly show that in this matter the government is offensive. It is nice that the opposition has also realized that this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1214	The Norwegian public sector purchases around 400 billion. kr each year, which amounts to approximately 15 pst. of gross domestic product. Of these, it is estimated that the local government's share is approximately 145 billion. kr. These resources need to be well managed and good governance should also mean using new ideas and new solutions, where appropriate. It is also important that the public sector, through its procurement, contributes to fair competition in industry, and in these areas probably all agree with the proposers. Norwegian business consists of about 500000 enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises account for about 99,5 pst. and accounts for more than half of turnover and employment. It is therefore important to facilitate the participation of these enterprises in public acquisitions. There's a lot of commitment around the country for this to be possible. The proposers are critical that the government has put in place the competence to impose an infringement fee on illegal direct acquisitions under the Enforcement Directive of the courts and that the infringement fee in KOFA falls as a penalty, so that KOFA again becomes a purely advisory body. The proposers wish to establish KOFA as a binding body of complaint. I note that in its reply of 10 April, the Council of State believes that such a proposal will require major changes to the procedure and procedures of the denominator – among others. in the interests of legal certainty – and that KOPA will need to be replaced by a judicial body. The role of KOFA was assessed both at its inception in 2003 and again in 2010, in the context of the introduction of new enforcement rules in the procurement legislation. A public body assessed in 2010 whether KOFA should be reorganised into a binding body of complaints. The majority in the sample considered that it could not be recommended, for example. on the grounds that the proceedings of such a quasi-judicial body would be extensive and resource-intensive. The majority followed up the recommendation of the sample and decided in 2012 to retain KOFA as an advisory body. I can't see that something new has happened since 2010 that provides the basis for reconsidering that KOFA should be an advisory body. The main business organisation estimates that the total administrative costs of Norwegian enterprises related to compliance with public requirements and rules amount to approximately 60 billion. kr annually. The government has set ambitious business simplification targets and has an explicit target of simplification equivalent to a net reduction in administrative burdens of 10 billion. kr by the end of 2015. The centre party is of the opinion that there is a need to reduce administrative costs. I am pleased that the government has set up a public body – the Simplification Committee – that has been commissioned to review the peculiar provisions of the law and regulation on public acquisitions. The aim of the review is to achieve simpler and more flexible legislation, simplification through increased user-friendliness and reduced costs of public procurement. We are looking forward to the sample delivering its investigation by 1 March 2014. Divi has been given a clear mandate to drive towards public enterprises and to assist them in the implementation of innovation-promoting acquisitions. As part of this work, Divi has developed a step-by-step guide on how to implement innovative acquisitions. The supervisor shall include: emphasising that contracting authorities engage in dialogue with the market and develop meeting places. This work will be continued in the follow-up to the recently promoted innovation strategy. I therefore believe that proposal No. 2 have already been implemented by the proposers. The Government’s strategy for increasing the innovation effect of public acquisitions came in February 2013 and was promoted precisely in order to improve the identification of all public enterprises in order to identify their development needs, communicate them to the market and have the tools and competences they need to make innovation-promoting acquisitions, where appropriate. The practical guidance material developed follows this up. An investigation is now also being carried out into the possibility of coordinating state acquisitions in Norway. The aim is more efficient resource use, savings in the short and long term, better and more professional purchasing environments, fewer breaches of rules and the organisation of innovation in government acquisitions. Such an investigation will provide new ideas and solutions for public sector acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1235	Representatives have promoted a number of proposals relating to public acquisitions. A number of measures that the government has implemented, or is working on, are affected. I am pleased with this opportunity to explain the work we are doing in this area. The government is working both on the development of the regulatory framework and on how the public is to carry out good regulatory acquisitions. We have received several signals that the legislation is too detailed, complicated and formalistic. Attention has increasingly been paid to the costs incurred by procurement legislation, both for the public sector and for suppliers. Criticism is primarily directed at the strange part of the legislation. It concerns acquisitions below the EEA thresholds. For this reason, the government has set up an expert committee to examine national legislation. The aim is to simplify and improve today's rules. The sample shall also assess the appropriate national threshold. Much of the procurement legislation comes from the EU. The EU is adopting amendments to the procurement directives. These proposals, as they now exist, involve simplifications which will alleviate the burdens on SMEs. The documentation requirements are simplified. The procedures are getting simpler. The requirements for the economic strength of the supplier are facilitated. In addition, several of the proposals shall contribute to the promotion of innovation. In Norway, too, we are committed to promoting innovative acquisitions. The Minister of Industry and I launched in February a strategy for increasing the innovation effect of public acquisitions. A number of innovation pilot projects have been carried out, but many contracting entities are uncertain about the regulatory scope of action. Divi has therefore designed a step-by-step innovation guide in public procurement. The government is committed to caring for small and medium-sized enterprises. An SMB strategy was launched last March. A separate chapter deals with public acquisitions. The strategy describes how contracting entities can facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises in public acquisitions. The strategy sets out a number of measures. These include: on the creation of several standard agreements, contractual templates, competences-building measures, etc. Good competence and improved management anchoring are essential for carrying out good acquisitions. Divi implements a number of training activities. At the same time, they produce practical guidance material. Divi also identifies experience and success factors in order to streamline acquisitions. There is a potential for savings through coordination, better definition of needs, planning of acquisitions and better follow-up of contracts concluded. The mapping work is used to strengthen the provision of guidance and competence. Representatives have also made proposals related to the organisation of the Public Acquisitions Complaint Subject, KOFA. In the context of the introduction of new enforcement rules, penalties were added to the courts. At the same time, KOFA may no longer levy an infringement fee for illegal direct acquisitions. A number of changes in the organisation, procedures and procedures of the KOPA had to be made if the KOPA were to acquire new competences. For example, it had to be opened up to oral negotiations and the provision of evidence. KOFA would be a court-like body by far. At that time, KOFA would be transformed into a formal enforcement agency and no longer a low threshold offer. In its committee configuration, the minority emphasises that they do not call for more strategies but for concrete actions and actions. The government’s strategies are followed up by concrete and effective measures. We now see a clear professionalisation of procurement processes at both state and municipal level. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. There is room for regulatory improvements. We're working on that. There is also a need for more knowledge, more tools and more willingness to prioritise good public acquisitions. Many measures have been taken, and we see that the results are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1264	Norwegian business consists of approximately 500000 enterprises, i.e. many small and medium-sized enterprises, and many of them are still out in the districts, with the benefits and disadvantages they bring. This gives a good rural profile, and a good trade policy will help to improve this development. It therefore seems strange that the government parties will not support the proposal to create a simple and user-friendly Small Doffin. The question to the Council of State will then be: why can't the Council of State be involved in supporting such a thing, which will strengthen the opportunities of small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas to become aware of what you can compete for?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1272	The government does not oppose the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in districts and competition for the public acquisitions that exist. Therefore, today’s Doffin can also be used for small and medium-sized enterprises. There's nothing to say that you can't use it even if you're below the thresholds. I believe that setting up a new Doffin would lead to more bureaucracy, more organisation and more organisations to keep this under control here. Small Dophin is currently available in Doffin; it is only to be used — including for small and medium-sized enterprises — for purchases below the thresholds and without the complex procedures normally used in Doffin.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1277	The number of complaints is falling. Maybe it's a little too early to see how this works right now, but if the number of complaints falls over time due to, for example, the changes in KOFA, and they fall strongly, how will the Council of State assess such a situation? What would she take as an expression? For my part, I would say that it can be seen very quickly as an expression that legal certainty has become less for those who have less resources to put into a difficult situation. Does the Council support such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1282	There is a need to monitor closely the development of KOPA. There has been a great decline in the number of incoming cases. Since there has been a massive increase in recent years, there have been several conversions that have occurred at the same time. We've changed the rules for who can charge the infringement fee, and we've increased the fee rates in order to file a complaint with KOFA in the last year, so we have to follow closely. What surprises me is that even in cases involving direct acquisitions, where there are very low fees for using KOFA, we see a decrease. It is important to follow closely, look at developments and then look at the types of complaints that are becoming fewer, in order to ensure that KOFA actually appears to be an effective and unbureaucratic body for Norwegian enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1287	Governments have done well for some of the schemes currently in force, so that small and medium-sized enterprises can participate in acquisitions when the country contracts less than DKK 500000. Does the Council agree that it could have been possible to get this into a simpler, standardised pattern in the form of a Little Dophin, where the same rules apply, and where there are the same procedures for all these tendering procedures?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1292	That's one of the reasons why we've now put down the simplification committee, which is going to look at the rules, and whether we're still going to have strange rules. There are two types of rules now, above and below the thresholds, which may give rise to some different loops for the award of public tenders. I don't agree that you have to create your own database, your own Little Doffin, to get it done. We have to be able to use the systems we've already established, and they can be used. They can be used to make inquiries there, even within the thresholds. If we have a challenge in this area, it must be to get public agencies to take advantage of those opportunities, and that Norwegian businesses make sure to apply in Doffin also for the small missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1297	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1302	This debate has shown that there is really a cross-political consensus in the Storting that new ideas and improved acquisition solutions are an important part of efforts to streamline and simplify the public sector. The difference lies in the fact that government councils and government parties lean back and believe that most of the job has already been done, while an overall opposition says that there is still a large, untapped potential here. Perhaps one will interpret it a little in the direction of governance, that it may be time to get new forces into the ministry to give this work a new one. Only during 2012 did a total opposition promote 30 simplification proposals regarding the relationship between Norwegian business and public, inter alia. related to statistics, reporting, customs duties, tax rules, auditing, accounting and accounting, stock laws and several other things. The opposition is also united in its desire to review the public role of acquisitions and the possibility of triggering new innovative forces in business. A government shift after the fall will therefore also mean an increased and continuous focus on rationally innovative and cost-effective solutions for public acquisitions. The total purchasing power of the state, counties and municipalities in Norway is formidable. Used correctly – in close and good dialogue – between suppliers’ orders, this purchasing power could contribute to further growth and development in Norwegian business. Especially in the large segment of small enterprises, a separate and appropriate standardised model for calling out simple and unbureaucratic tenders below the threshold of SEK 500000 could be an important incentive for increased turnover and further growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1309	There is a strong consensus in the hall that it is important to have a high focus on public acquisitions, and that it can contribute both to innovation and to our buying better and better quality. But I have to say that I'm a little surprised when the suggestions that are presented here are presented as new ideas. For, with the exception of proposal No, 1, which has been negotiated in Stortinget three times, are the other proposals under work in the government. Thus, something has also been done. Proposal No. 2 – a guide – it’s there: go to acquisitions.no, and check the materials lying there. Clear guidelines for innovation – yes, we have presented innovation strategies both in the municipal and state sectors, targeting small businesses. Little Doffin there's no reason to create when we have a Doffin that can work today. We have not set up a database for documentation, precisely because the EU is now working on this, and I think it would be very unwise if we made our own rules in Norway that we might have to reconsider when the EU makes its proposal. There is one proposal that we have not followed up – an acquisition academy. It is called the course and competence centre in Divi, but it also operates in a very wide range of training and competence development. In addition, many private actors contribute in this area. We have presented a strategy for innovation in the municipal sector, and very recently we have provided a comprehensive communication on health and care technologies, which are currently being addressed. There are, therefore, great possibilities for implementing it as proposal No. Seven is going to be equal to seven. Clearly, it is important that we look at how we can move on to paying even more attention to the cost of living in our acquisitions. We will look at this further, and as I said, we are also working on several common solutions for public acquisitions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1320	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1334	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1343	As rapporteur-in-chief, I am delighted to present up until now to Prop. 75 L concerning amendments to the Competition Act. A number of amendments to the Competition Act are now being proposed to contribute to a more effective enforcement of the 2004 Competition Act. The amendments are based on the 2012 NOU study: ‘More effective competition law’. The aim of the amendments is to amend competition law in order to make it easier to use for business. A more efficient and targeted system of merger control is needed. The Government therefore proposes to raise the threshold for acquisitions and mergers, to shorten the procedure for merger control and to harmonise the law with the EU in order to reduce the number of strange rules to be dealt with. The Government continues the prohibition of anti-competitive agreements and abuses of dominant positions and of anti- mergers and buying-in rules that restrict competition. The amendments shall enter into force on 1 January 2014. It also provides time for the preparation of revised regulations. These changes will have a positive administrative and economic impact on business, in particular in view of the significant reference to the thresholds for notifying the Competition Authority of a merger. Today's threshold is 50 million. kr for total turnover and 20 mill. kr for individual turnover. Following the amendments, the mergers shall be notified to the supervisory authority where the total turnover exceeds 1 billion. kr and where at least two of the undertakings concerned individually have a turnover of at least 100 million. kr. Purchasing where undertakings are placed on the market below those limits will not be subject to notification, but the Competition Authority will have the power to impose a notification obligation and to intervene if the merger causes competition problems contrary to the Competition Act. Now we also introduce shorter processing times in merger control. Among other things, the system of both general and full notification at different stages of the procedure will be replaced by a system of notification to the Competition Authority. The rules governing a merger in breach of the Competition Act are not proposed. Today's practice continues. This implies that no so-called consumer welfare standard is introduced into the merger control rules. There is also a new mechanism for the rapid closure of cases where the parties themselves propose remedies. The Competition Authority is now given the opportunity to close cases earlier without a complete case investigation in such cases. The measures shall be binding by means of a decision with a brief justification. More stringent requirements will also be imposed on the more active use of penalties against offenders. The government does not follow the selection's proposal for impunity for persons in whom enterprises are relieved. The Government proposes to abolish the system of criminal fines for undertakings. Such fines have never been imposed because they are penalised by administrative fines — infringement fees — which are at least as high as the criminal fines would have been. It is now proposed to strengthen the protection of the sources of crime of competition authorities by legislating the confidentiality of their identity. The infringement fee may be reduced or waived if undertakings cease to cooperate illegally and reveal their own participation in it by means of a so-called relaxation request to the Competition Surveillance Authority. Limited transparency of such relaxation requests is proposed in order to improve the effectiveness of enforcement of the competition law. Furthermore, it is proposed that competition supervision should as a general rule take the form of copies — rather than original documents — of current practice. In the case of the seizure of electronic material, the controlled person shall now be given the opportunity to be present at the time of the review of the material by the Competition Authority. The impact of the changes is a more effective enforcement of the Competition Act, while enhancing the legal certainty of undertakings in several respects. The new system of remedies will be more effective with more flexible competition policy solutions than the current one. Several amendments in the area of merger involve harmonisation with the EU and EEA law, which in itself is a simplification. This is particularly important for cross-border enterprises. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1373	Prop. 75 L relating to changes to the Competition Act shall make enforcement more effective, both for competition authorities and for undertakings. Of course, the Progress Party supports this. At the same time, the prohibition of anti-competitive agreements and abuse of dominant positions, as well as the rules on anti-merger and buying-in which restrict competition, is continued. This is good. The progress party has always thought that such laws are important and also think that after ten years it was good to look at the law again. Much changes during such a period. The Progress Party is also pleased that the changes will have a positive and better economic impact on business. The party to the progress is also pleased that, as a general rule, seizures should take the form of copies. Undertakings shall also be able to receive copies of the mirrored seizure as well as the right to be present during the review of the material by the supervisor. We believe that this is good for all parties. The Progress Party is also pleased that a notification obligation was introduced in the past, as this is an important tool for competition policy. At the same time, however, it is important that this obligation to notify needs to be assessed at regular intervals. Shorter processing time is also something of course the Progress Party is satisfied with, and something we have fought for all the years. What distinguishes government parties and opposition parties may be the view of the Competition Authority’s ability to reject firms from bidding after full relaxation. We believe that this is not right. Therefore, the proposal that the government be asked to examine the aspects of public acquisitions in the field of competition law is promoted. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1392	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1395	The Competition Act is a very important law for consumers and businesses. When introduced by the Bondevik II government in 2003, it was initially strict. What is now adopted – largely by an overall committee, with the exception of a small, divergent proposal – is in many ways a liberalisation of the competition law, a step on the way. It reflects the evolution of society. Things get faster, units get bigger, there's an internationalization, and the law has to deal with this. I just want to highlight two, three points that we have been concerned with in the notes during the treatment. These include: issues that have not been addressed in the legislative proposal – on authority orders imposing actions on undertakings that are assessed in breach of competition rules. There is a case-law of the European Court of Justice that a narrow exception applies where companies have no choice as to how they will behave. In response to a letter from the Committee, the Council of State stated that cooperation, which would have resulted from a statutory order from the authorities, would have to be assessed by the Ministry on the basis of a special law to cooperate, would go ahead of the prohibition in the general competition law against cooperation. I think this illustrates a certain need for rules in this area. Further on the prohibition of self-incrimination contained in the law. We believe that it should be interpreted in line with what is in fact the case in Norwegian law, so that no case-law of its own is developed in that area. The last point I want to underline is the relationship with the public when they are engaged in acquisition activities. This may be problematic under competition law. The Competition Law Committee considered that it was outside its mandate to propose a regulation. We believe that this is important, and therefore we have made a proposal that the government should examine the aspects of competition law of public acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1406	Competition is not an end in itself but a means of achieving socio-economic efficiency. The Competition Act must make it possible to maximise the sum of the profits of economic operators, i.e. to maximise the sum of the profits of enterprises and consumer profits. The Competition Act has been important for Norwegian competition policy, and the Ministry has done a good job of revising the legal text, so that an aggregate increase can be behind what is available. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposals promoted in the proposition will both simplify and streamline processes related to penalties and appeal procedures in the event of infringements and suspected infringements of the Competition Act. The Christian People's Party supports the amendments that are presented in the proposition. We also have just a few brief comments on some issues, where we believe that something more could have been included in the legal text. In the proposition, it's going to be, for example, dealing with information obligations and investigations in infringement cases. Everyone has an obligation to provide the Competition Surveillance Authority with the information requested by the Authority. At the same time, however, there is also a requirement to protect against being forced to contribute to its own convictions by providing the Competition Authority with information that would lead to a breach of competition law – i.e. the so-called self-incrimination protection. The Ministry considers that it is not necessary to regulate the protection against self-incrimination in the Competition Act as it is in any case a consequence of the EMK made into Norwegian law by the Human Rights Act. We in the Christian People's Party do not agree. We believe that self-incrimination protection should be clarified in the law. We believe the same in so-called ‘state consolidation’ or state coercion in Norway. This applies to authority orders requiring an operator to act in breach of the Competition Act. The Council of State mentions it in its letter to the Committee, and it is mentioned in the chapter on issues not dealt with in the legislative proposal. We believe that this should have been included in the legal text.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1419	The majority today deals with a matter that will not create the big headlines. But it is an important matter for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian economy. The Competition Act ensures that undertakings do not enter into cartel agreements or create monopolies through mergers and acquisitions. The Competition Act has soon worked for ten years. The audit that is being examined today is a full review of most of the rules of procedure in the law. The prohibitions – the prohibition of cartels in Section 10 and the prohibition of abuse of a dominant position in Section 11 – are harmonised with the EU and the EEA rules and are not amended. Most countries in Europe and the Nordic countries have the same prohibition rules. Nor do we make any changes to the grounds for tampering with mergers and acquisitions in the first paragraph of Section 16. A red thread in the proposed legislative amendments is to ensure that the rules of procedure are also more similar to those in the EU and the Nordic countries. This makes it easier for businesses to understand and comply with the rules. The government has proposed many changes – most of them technically. The proposals simplify everyday life, both for the companies involved in competition cases and for the Competition Authority dealing with the cases. The main simplification is to raise the notification thresholds for mergers and acquisitions. We're starting to have the world's lowest reporting obligations to be around the same level as Sweden and Denmark. Another important simplification is that the law now facilitates the completion of both merger cases and infringement cases by means of remedies. This implies that when the parties propose a measure to address the objections raised by the supervision in a specific case, the supervision may take a decision making it binding on the parties. This saves both the parties and the oversight of time and resources to take a fully explored prohibition decision. I am pleased that the Economic and Social Committee unanimously supports the amendments, although there are differences on some points. In the proposal, we send an important signal to companies and the Competition Authority that those involved in the most serious offences – cartel cooperation – should be reported to a greater extent than has been the case. Here, we're not proposing any changes to the law, we're just saying that the rules of the law on personal punishment are there to be used. We have a number of surveys from both Norway and other countries that show that fines to enterprises are not enough. Enterprises are managed and represented by persons. It is those who must respect the law. Everything suggests that they become more law-abiding if they know that a punishment affects not only the company but also themselves – through a fine or, in the worst case, imprisonment. At the same time, we introduce an innovation into the law through a provision on conditional prosecution in Section 33. Conditional prosecution means that employees of undertakings which have breached the law are not prosecuted without notification by the Competition Authority, or exceptionally that criminal prosecution is required for strong reasons of general interest. The reason for such a rule is to incentivise the warning and admission of ongoing illegalities. Anyone who has violated the law should be able to gain an advantage by confessing and contributing to clarification. Here we go further in opening confessions than what is common in Norwegian criminal law. The reason is that cartel cooperation is almost always carried out in secret, and the authorities are dependent on leniency requests and confessions to end the offences and settle the cases. Another important change is that we lift the corporate penalty. It has not been used since the 2004 Act. Instead of penalties, enterprises are subject to financial penalties in the form of an infringement fee. This is done by the adoption by the supervisory authority of such fees. We get a cleaner and more effective penalty rule in the Competition Act. Let me finish where I started. This case is of great importance to Norwegian companies and the Norwegian economy. It is good that there is cross-political agreement on the proposals, and I am pleased that the Competition Act is now easier to enforce and to comply with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1448	A concrete and straightforward question to the Council of State: it is hoped that the ability of the Competition Authority to intervene in a case below the notification threshold should be reduced from three months to four weeks. What makes it impossible to assess such a reduction, possibly going from three to two months – in any case reducing the time frame?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1453	We have assessed the proposal after it came up, but I believe it is important that we facilitate the enforcement of the competition rules. There is often a lot of documentation that needs to be collected, and in order for us to have a proper procedure, I believe that three months should be the threshold – if we did not have to significantly expand the capacity of the Competition Surveillance Authority. There are also some practical reasons why it can take some time before we get enough material in. That's the background that in the law we don't dare to go to the boundaries that have been discussed here. Of course, we have a goal that the length of the procedure should be as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1459	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1475	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1484	Prop. 74 S for 2012–2013 deals with Norway’s participation in the European Space Programme. The Government here sets out the commitments Norway took on during the European Space Agency (ESA) ministerial meeting in November 2012. The process is then such that the promises are given subject to the approval of the Storting, and that is this approval we are currently examining. The commitments are significant, with a total of 155.5 million. EUR for the period 2013 to 2020 split into different programmes, while the overall framework for responsibilities and obligations shall not exceed 193,5 million. euro. Norway, with its commitment to international space research, is a significant player, and both the Committee and the Government have pointed out that this is considered both correct and important for Norwegian research environments and for Norwegian business. Exposure includes programmes such as technology development, solar exploration, satellite communications and satellite navigation, an Earth observation programme, etc. Several programmes have a clear relevance to a country such as Norway with our geography, our seas and our business. It is an overall committee which, in peace and harmony, promotes this position without any other comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1495	As the case spokesman said, there is a joint committee that will accept the commitments Norway has taken on, so I should just briefly underline something that has been important to us red-green. This includes: that the geographical location, topography and major sea areas make Norway particularly useful for space-based infrastructure. Today, such infrastructure is crucial for the defence and efficient operation of society, and to be able to participate in the major opportunities such as: are located in the north. Space enterprises involve advanced development and large and costly systems that are able to land on their own, and Norway must therefore base itself on international cooperation in order to develop the space-based infrastructure on which our society depends. So I just want to agree with the case spokesman that we are coming back to a broad and good debate during the discussion of the report. St. 32 for 2012–2013, Between Heaven and Earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1504	This is a case that shows a total accumulation in this field. It is important to use the space for action that these opportunities give us in being a participant in these programmes. Then, as a host nation, as we're actually on Svalbard with the SvalSat system, we need to use this to be an active contributor and promote this. Through the technology involved, the business and spin-offs, there is an enormous opportunity for Norway as a participant and Norwegian business operators to bring good products all the way here. The party of progress really looks forward to the development that this gives us, and we must actively use the space for action in these programmes that it has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1517	Then the Storting is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1525	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 1 is ingested on s. 61 in the vote, while proposal No. 2 to 4 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals to the Stortinget to allow municipalities to set a camera monitoring fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1553	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking it to work actively towards the EU in order to ensure that the new Data Protection Regulation provides a higher level of protection of privacy than today’. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1570	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make an appropriate contribution to ensuring that users of social media have a right of access to information provided to third parties.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1587	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to review the implications of the extension of the Swedish FRA Act and to promote a case to the Stortinget on how to ensure that citizens in Norway are better protected in their telecommunications and data communications.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1620	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the said project, Rogfast in Rogaland, being built as part of the main Ferry Free E39 project and based on full State funding.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1638	The left has notified that they will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1655	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision consents to the continuation of the Bergen programme as referred to in Prop. [[2012-2013]] 143 S Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1673	The left has notified that they will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1871	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1881	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1889	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2014, the Government requests the submission of a financing action plan for the implementation of a national broadband lift with a high-speed broadband objective throughout Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1917	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘Document 8:88 S [[2012-2013]] The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e1939	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-8, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of the Public Acquisition Complaint Body as a binding body of complaint to strengthen uniform interpretation and effective enforcement of the procurement law, inter alia, in order to prevent corruption and strengthen the legal protection of small and medium-sized enterprises.’.» [[KOFA]] Proposal No. 2 says: ‘The government is asked to develop a practical and comprehensive public–private innovation cooperation guide, with the aim of increasing the innovation impact of public acquisitions.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government asks the government to develop clear guidelines for the inclusion of functional requirement specifications in public acquisitions, with the aim of facilitating public-private innovation cooperation.’ Proposal No. 4 reads: ‘The government is asked to create a simple and user-friendly ‘Small Doffin’ to give new growth opportunities to small and medium-sized enterprises and to strengthen local ownership.’ Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The government is asked to simplify the procurement process by establishing a documentation database, inter alia, in order to avoid double registration and double reporting.’ Proposal No. 6 reads: ‘The government is asked to set up a ‘acquisition academy’ to create a coherent training and competence development programme for public acquisitions’. Proposal No. 7 reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the state sector can contribute to boosting technology development in the municipal sector, in order to achieve the objective of cheaper and better procurement.’ Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that state agencies place greater emphasis on the entire costs of the business in decentralised procurement processes.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e2009	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold put forward a proposal, No. 1, on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the competition aspects of public acquisition activities.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e2808	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e2818	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-28.ana.ud5e2848	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
