ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e33	On 11 June 1913, women were given equal voting rights in line with men, the Constitution amended Section 50 to read: “The Norwegian citizens, men and women who have reached the age of 25 years and who have resided in the country 5 years and have stayed there are eligible for vote.” The big thing is celebrating today's voting anniversary, and now we're at the anniversary meeting in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e41	We're gathered to show that today is exactly 100 years since the Stortinget decided on women's right to vote. Today we celebrate the greatest expansion of our democracy in history. Democracy arises when one strives for the freedom and equality of all citizens, and takes into account the number of citizens, but not their nature, said Aristotle 300 years B.C. The idea of democracy and the general right to vote matured some years after Aristotle, but that was what the long struggle for women's voting rights here at the Grand Council was about: the struggle for representativeness, equality, participation and democracy. Norway was the fourth country in the world to vote women, after New Zealand, Australia and Finland. In 1913 the decision did not come as a surprise, all parties had programmed voting rights for women before the 1912 elections. Nevertheless, there must have been an emotional moment when the representatives were called up one by one and answered yes unanimously. A group of women's champions with Gina Krog in the head, sitting in the diplomatic lodge on June 13, 1913. For several decades they had followed the debate from the gallery and experienced both downs and stage wins. We had never doubted that we were going to win, but that the victor should come as big and as perfect, as quiet and as beautiful as it came tonight, we had never dreamed of it, said Krog when the women were represented for the presidency. Today, thanks to their efforts, we can celebrate the 100th anniversary of women's voting rights. The requirement for women’s voting rights grew in the 1880s. With the establishment of the Norwegian Women's Saxon Association in 1884, Krog entered the breastplate for women's place in society. In 1885 Krog established the Women's Chamber Association together with Fredrikke Marie Qvam, Anna Rogstad and Ragna Nielsen. Alliert, represented by Viggo Ullmann, presented the first proposal to the Stortinget on women's voting rights in 1886. The first debate took place in the Stortinget in 1890, and the fronts were steep. Part of what was said was not too delicate ears. In return, it's a good source for people who want to find quotes. Conservative bishop Heuch painted scare pictures and warned against the emergence of «female Misfostre» and a society of «Maskulina and Neutra». He believed that «Every woman's participation in political life is the signal of her degradation, of the home's disruption, of the social breakdown of family life». The biggest debate in 1890 showed that there were considerable differences in the view of women's role in society. The proposal was rejected, but the matter was on the agenda. The defeat did not take the courage of the champions, on the contrary. From the first debate in 1890 to the decision on equality in 1913, the issue was dealt with 15 times. The force ratio changed slowly in the favour of its followers, and the turning point came in 1905 with the referendum on the Union resolution with Sweden. The women asked for a vote, but the government rejected it. With 300,000 signatures collected, Norwegian women gave a clear message: they wanted a word with them in important decisions – half the people were asked, all the people answered. The action raised awareness and was of great importance for the outcome of the next women’s voting debate. After more than 20 years of debate, women’s voting rights were restricted by law in 1907. The right to vote gave choice. In 1911, Anna Rogstad met as the first female alternate at Stortinget. Rogstad helped to unlock the last remaining resistance. Although the decision in 1913 was a victory, equality did not apply to all. Neither men nor women who went on what was then called the poverty fund were given the right to vote. It was not until 1919 that the provision was removed and the vote was given a fully democratic sentence. The proportion of women in national Parliaments was very low for a long time. Only after World War II did it rise to over 5 p.m., and it was also after World War II that in 1945 we got Kirsten Hansteen as Norway's first female government council. The 1970s became a turning point in Norwegian policy. Women became more visible in politics and contributed to new issues being given a more central place on the political agenda. Among other things, we received: equality law, self-determined abortion law in 1978, kindergarten law in 1975, working environment law in 1977, which extended access to maternity and maternity leave — important political steps ensuring the possibility for women to participate in society on the same footing as men. In 1981, Gro Harlem Brundtland became Norway's first female prime minister. Women make up half of the population and should also be half of the members of a government, says Gro. When she presented her second government in 1986, it was called the Women's Government – 8 out of 18 councils were women. Since then, the proportion of women in a Norwegian government has never been below 40 pst. In 1993, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl became the first female prime minister in Norway. The question of representativeness is still relevant. The Governing Council faces challenges of ensuring commitment, representativity and participation in democratic processes. We live in one of the world's most equal societies, but the rule of people is not real until all groups of the people are represented, regardless of gender, ethnicity or disability. One thing is to have the right to vote, something else is to use the right to vote. The use of the voting rights of the country is a prerequisite for a living democracy. Norway’s highest political body is not the government. Neither are we here in the main hall. No, the highest political body in Norway is the electorate — it is the election. We have to bring in those groups that have lower turnout than the mean. We must appeal to young people, to minority groups and mobilise everyone to participate in democratic processes. Let's work to get all of us, to ensure representativeness and participation, and let's do it in the spirit of the female pioneers to honor the struggle they waged over 100 years ago. Congratulations on the day! [[Applause from the centre]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e79	The struggle for general voting was both women's struggle and class struggle. All people over a certain age would be allowed to decide in society – not just wealthy men. Some of the issues that have been most controversial in recent Norwegian history relate to women's freedom and rights: women's voting rights, women's right to marry whomever you want, women's right to decide over their own bodies, women's professional participation and women's priests and bishops, to mention some issues that have aroused great commitment. Today we celebrate that both women and men have been able to participate in democracy for 100 years using the right to vote. This was an important breakthrough in the fight for women's freedom, and a prerequisite for the other freedoms given to women. Being economically independent is essential to making independent choices in life. For most in Norway, it is a matter of course. Among other things, it is related to: together with Norwegian women at work. The vast majority of women between the ages of 20 and 64 are in paid employment. The way in which we have organised ourselves in Norway, with strong tripartite cooperation and a work environment law that protects workers' ability to combine work and family life, is part of the core wall that makes it possible. The right to self-determination through access to prevention, the right to self-determined abortion and the possibility of assisted conception have helped to change the lives of women. The development of the welfare state and the social security network we have in Norway also goes hand in hand with women's liberation, because there is a great deal of freedom in being safe. When it is no longer an accident to ‘port in accident’, it is linked to the fact that our attitudes have changed – fortunately. However, it is not least related to the welfare state’s making available to families with children, regardless of their composition. The right to vote, economic autonomy, the right to rule over one's own body, social protection – there are four freedoms of Norwegian women. Great things have happened in 100 years, but the fight for women's rights is not over. We haven't reached equality yet. We have a sex-shared labour market. The fight for equal pay and against involuntary part-time work must continue. We also see that women have fewer positions of power in society and business than men have. There are few women in charge of the large limited liability companies and medium-sized enterprises, and although the 40 pst rule of the ASA regime has contributed very positively, there is still a deficit of women in many corporate governance and group management. For many women who should have played in the elite series of business, reference is made to the fourth division. We still have a job to do for better power distribution and increased participation for women in business, and to recruit more men to work in kindergartens and in nursing homes. Unfortunately, women also live in oppressive conditions in today’s Norway — women who are not allowed to work or to take education, women who are not allowed to marry them, women who are subjected to violence and abuse where they should be safest, namely at home. This is detention, and we must combat it as a society. 200 years ago it was about establishing democratic rights for male citizens. 100 years ago, women were given the same rights. Today it concerns, among other things. to get more immigrants, especially women, to participate in our democracy. Democracy, participation and equality are ultimately about the ability of each one of us to live the life we want to live. Today is historic, but the story of women's rights and participation in Norwegian society is not finished today. How history continues shall be decided by the voters in September. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e100	It can be easy to take things for granted. It can be easy to believe that such a thing is today, it has always been. So history tells us a pretty different reality. For us who grow up in today's Norwegian society, it seems quite strange that not all citizens, men and women, should have the same right to influence and participate in democracy by being able to choose and be elected. So distant, and yet so close. Next year we'll mark and celebrate that it's been 200 years since we got our constitution – one of the most modern constitutions of our time, and a fundamental part of the foundation wall in our modern Norway. Nevertheless, our constitution was not so modern in 1814 that it ensured equal democratic rights for all citizens of Norwegian society. It can be said that textually, it was, but actually it was not, because it was interpreted in such a way that the voting rights applied only to men. So it was supposed to take almost 100 years from the Constitution until women were also given general voting rights in Norway. Some will emphasise the importance of organisations for the steps we have taken in our society in the future, and the improvements we have made in our democracy and social system. I agree. Organised groups have played a significant and often crucial role in the design of our social system. But it can be easy to forget that there's always someone who has to go ahead, that there's always someone who has to take the first steps. These ‘some’ are individuals. Those who move the world are individuals, and therefore we should not forget to honor individuals who have gone before us – the individual people who have gone up to us. I fully believe that a single human being, by virtue of his conviction and will, is able to move large battlestones. Nils Olavson Langedal from Witteseid, better known as Stryke-Nils, was bottled on horse’s milk and known for being “gruleg strong”, as it says. He lived a lot of his life in Seljord, and the stories say that with his own fist he raised a battlestone of 570 kg. The battlestone that was lifted away on 11 June 1913 in this Chamber cannot be weighed on a weight, but the political and democratic significance of that promise is a particularly heavy one. That there were many who contributed to that promise, we also know. One of the single people who went ahead in the fight that led to women having the same democratic and political rights as men in Norway was my great-grandmother Betzy Kjelsberg. One day like this, it must be the law of a parliamentary leader himself to be a little proud of his origin. Besides being Drammen's first female cyclist, she was also one of the great female sac spies in Norway. I'm proud she was my great-grandmother. I am proud of the importance she had when it came to fighting for, and forward, fundamental political and democratic rights for women in this country. She took some important steps for women, but from a larger perspective, she did it for all citizens. She fought for equal rights for all citizens of this country, and was therefore perhaps as much a citizen activist as she was a woman activist. In 1896 she founded the Drammen Women's Association, and she became central to the debate at national level on the fight for women's voting rights. In the Norwegian Women's Association there were two fronts around this theme. It was those who wanted to attach women's voting rights to what they called enlightened women, those who with some education and social rank, were worthy. And so it was those who thought that voting rights would apply to all women, regardless of education and social rank. My great-grandmother belonged to the last wing throughout that debate, and she fought for the right to vote to apply to all. It was good that it was the wing and the vision that finally got ahead, and that is currently the law in force in Norway. On a day like this, I would encourage everyone to lift their eyes a little, raise their eyes, look beyond – and especially beyond the borders of the country. We have come a long way in Norway when it comes to ensuring equal political and democratic rights for all citizens. We've come a long way about equality. Today's modern women's struggle should be about standing up for fellow citizens and sisters who do not enjoy the same political and democratic rights that we take for granted in Norway today. There are still countries out there that do not recognise women’s right to vote and to participate in political and democratic processes. There are still too many places in the world where women are treated as second-class citizens. There are still many places where women are in public places when it comes to political processes. We should in a day like this say clearly that we do not accept that. We don't accept women being reduced to spectators where they should be participants. We do not accept that women should be reduced to second-class citizens. And at least we don't accept that it's going to get root fixing here. All citizens should be able to participate in our political and democratic processes, and there are some who will prevent it, yes, then we have to hit it hard. Democracy is about participation, it's about participation. A full democracy premises that every citizen, regardless of gender, is included and gets to decide. It's about equivalency between citizens. 100 years ago today, a big promise was made that involved equivalence and participation. 100 years ago today, there was never such a small revolution in this room, a revolution that had on the agenda the big and important questions. So let's not forget the big questions today when we sit down and discuss the small ones. In many places, the things we take for granted are still pale illusions. So let's remember those who went ahead, and raise your eyes to see those who are still going at the back. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e128	Let me start by congratulating everyone with the day. It's a nice selection, and it's a great thing we're going to mark during this day. Since we opened up democratic elections – I had written for everyone, but after the president's speeches, I have to say for almost everyone – 100 years have passed since women received general voting rights in Norway. We live today in a country where it is quite natural for us that we have freedom of expression, freedom of the press, respect for fundamental human rights, that women and men are free to make their own choices – yes, we live in a society where some people think that we have gone so far as to need nothing more, or that equality is something that has been accomplished in our society. It's good that we've come so far that this is perceived as natural by young people today, so natural that they almost think it's a bit shaky when older ladies start talking about it. But it's important today to look back, because there are some who have fought for the values that underlie our society today. Norway had a future-oriented constitution in 1814, but we did not — as no other country did — have it when it came to equality. Let me mention some of those who stood in front. Anna Rogstad was a pioneer in Norwegian women's fight. She was the first woman to meet at Stortinget as alternate for Höires Jens Bratlie when he became Prime Minister. Anna Rogstad was a pioneer of the women's struggle on the right-hand side of Norwegian politics when she made choices on a common list between Frisinde Left and Höire. She had political influence. Among other things, she received Courts to advocate women's right to independent equality, as the Stortinget advocated on 29 June 1911 – an important part of the economic autonomy of our country. Later, when Jens Bratlie became Prime Minister in February 1912, Anna Rogstad met for the rest of the period. She was a versatile politician, but of course she was very engaged in the fight for general women's voting rights. That fight was crowned with victory just 100 years ago. It took nine years for us to get the first fixed female wholesaler, Höires Karen Platou. She was also a female role model, and is remembered as a symbol of the women's cause. But she was very much more. During the gender equality debate in the early 1900s, there were few women who participated in the labour market – even fewer of whom were married – but Karen Platou chose to become an entrepreneur with her own publishing and agency activities, and she paved the way for women in work, including self-employed women. It was not obvious that married women would continue to work. Some of the struggle to maintain equality in Norway in the 1920s and 1930s, when we had mass unemployment, was just the attempt to share work. Married women should either reduce their wages or stop, because they were already depending. Anna Rogstad, Karen Platou and many other women worked actively – not least in the 20 years before – to equalise women and men. Women's organisations at the time did not just work for it. They are the rootstock of much of the volunteer we see today, and only in the breeze did Fredrikke Marie Qvam, who founded the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association. They went in the brink to get women to vote, but also to see the holes in our welfare community. So until today, the dynamic forces continued to see groups that are not doing well in our society. Almost even more important than what they did separately, is actually the tradition they created together. They have created a tradition of gender equality. It is an important tradition, where important struggles have been fought and still have to be fought. In 1978, the first law on equality was adopted. There was an important milestone in Norwegian policy, but for more reasons than is evident today. In the adopted text of the law, equality was made a gender-neutral concept. It highlighted how the fight for gender equality has become a major equality debate and a gender equality struggle. Because it's not just between women and men we're going to have equality; we're going to have equality for everyone, regardless of age, function, religious affiliation, sexual orientation and, of course, sex. That's why we've passed many miles since then. Gro Harlem Brundtland became the country's first female prime minister in 1981. Today, we have four employers’ organisations, all run by women, and two of the four national workers’ organisations are run by women. Gerd Kristiansen was recently elected as the second female leader of LO. What happened 100 years ago with regard to gender equality also made possible other gender equality struggles. That's why we've experienced other milestones. Jo Benkow became the first Jewish poaching representative and later also the poaching president. Per-Kristian Foss became the first open gay government council in Norway. Afghan Rafiq became the first woman from the new immigration groups to become a permanent representative here in Stortinget. I am proud of Norway's progress in gender equality. We are a country where gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation do not prevent either active participation in politics or the holding of elected positions. That is why it is also important today to point out that we have not fully achieved targets in all areas, and that in many countries there is much worse. We are so lucky that we live in a country where we've got a lot of inheritance from these early women, who have to look out of the country and look at the situation elsewhere. In the last year, the search light has been put on the cruel conditions of many women living in parts of India, with great fear of group rapes, with little chance of getting jobs and education. In some areas of this country, the number of women per 1000 men is below 700. We see such relationships not only in India, but also in other areas. The value of women remains significantly lower than that of men in many countries. That means that we owe them help, that we have to help more. We must continue to work for fundamental human rights, for women's right to education and for women's right to be equal to men. Human rights have been a central part of Norwegian international participation, cooperation and development assistance. We should not be tempted to make changes or cut development aid aimed at children's right to education. We know, for example. that children attending school, girls attending school are less likely to be exploited in the sex industry, they are easier to obtain income — yes, they become less coercive and pregnant at an early age. We can't change the culture of every country we work with, but we can help equip each girl with a better starting point for her own life. Therefore, we should focus more on the education of women in our development aid. But also here in Norway, we have challenges. We are not in all areas. Violence against women and rape is still a major and serious problem. Some say it's also a growing problem. Being affected by violence feels deeply infringing, and it is a serious human rights violation. We still probably live with attitudes in both the judicial system, the police and the auxiliaries that have old-fashioned ways of looking at women's and women's roles, and thus making the investigation and work in the judicial system an extra new intrusion for many women. It's also in many ways stigmatizing to admit that you live with violence, because it's so hard for others to understand why you don't just break out. 40 years ago, it was quite common to understand why women were stuck in violence. Today we see it as a weakness. But understanding the psychological mechanisms and understanding women who spend time breaking out is also an important part of how we should help instead of condemning. Then there are women in Norway who today do not have access to the same free and equal society as we do. There are many women moving to our country every year with backgrounds in other cultures. They need to participate in our society in order to gain the knowledge and the ability to use the rights of all we other women in Norway believe are quite obvious. That means it's an area that we have to focus on. In line with Norwegian gender equality policy, all girls and all women will have the same opportunities to benefit from what we have fought for for for 100 years in Norway. I would like to congratulate you again on the day. I want to say that the job is not done, but we have, frankly, come quite a long way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e170	Today we celebrate the introduction of democratic elections in Norway. It makes no sense to talk about real democracy before that year both women and men were given equal democratic rights. Only with women's voting rights were the representatives of this House truly democratically elected. That's why the anniversary we're marking today is nothing less than what we're going to mark next year. And equally important: First, with women's involvement in politics, a number of questions were put on the political agenda, which would never be there if the Stortinge had remained a hall for men. With the women's involvement, the women's issue came into the policy. If there's something we've learned from the gender equality struggle in the last 100 years, it's that women's cause is not a matter for women alone. On the contrary, the victories the women's movement has fought have been important to our entire society. Gender equality has made Norway a much better society to live in — for women, for men and not least for our children. That's why we're going to use this day to thank all of them who in the last 100 years have dedicated their lives to ensuring women equal rights and opportunities as men. They have not only given today's women a life of greater freedom and security, they have also given all of us a richer society. The four great ones – Camilla Collett, Fredrikke Marie Qvam, Gina Krog and Fernanda Nissen – were pioneers with a special place in our history. Our first female wholesalers, Anna Rogstad and Karen Platou, paved the way for women on the Stortinget. As an SV, I will also bring forward the first woman in the presidency, Torild Skard, and one of our first two female party leaders, Berit Ås, as two of those who successfully raised women's issues in politics, such as despite the invisibility, ridicule and other ruling techniques to get women's demands on the agenda and create a freer, equal and fairer society. What we must never forget, especially on a day like this, is that what is obvious today, once was the opposite. The idea that women could make up half of a Norwegian government was unimaginable. That women should have the right to self-determined abortion, or that children should go to kindergarten for women to have full-time jobs in the same way that their husband did, was unheard of. The idea of parental leave for mothers was distant enough, but the idea that father should have the right to leave to be home with children, would probably have triggered questions about medication. Nevertheless, this development has gradually led to the introduction of women’s voting rights. Because with women's involvement in politics, the question of women and children was slowly, but certainly a greater part of the political debate. Women’s rights, living conditions and opportunities are no longer a private matter for each family or marriage, but a social matter. It became personal political. Already in 1913, Katti Anker Møller called for the legalisation of abortion. Only in 1978 did the women’s movement win the fight for self-determined abortion in Norway — the same year that the Equality Act was adopted. In the 65 years between Katti Anker Møller's controversial position and the decision of the abortion law, there was a hard fight between the women's movement and conservative forces in Norwegian society that wanted to limit women's rights and independence. In short, this has been the case in the hundreds of years since 1913: using women's experiences to shed light on women's problems and challenges, to despite a man-dominated culture to do something about those problems, and issues of violence and abuse, about sexual harassment, about child rearing, about women's body and women's health, about the possibility to participate fully in working and social life. For every battle won, women have gained greater independence and greater power over their own lives. The possibilities offered by the decision in 1913 are used to fight full participation in the labour market, greater influence in society and power over its own body. Women's participation in politics and working life has made Norway a rich and modern country. If women in Norway had worked as little as the average in the OECD region, values corresponding to the whole of Norway’s oil wealth would be lost. It is common to say that we live on oil in Norway. We might as well say that we live by equality. The women's cause has been, and remains today, a struggle for freedom – a struggle for the individual to realize himself and his opportunities, regardless of the narrow framework that traditional gender roles set for us. In addition, it is a prerequisite for well-being and prosperity in this country to bet on women. We all have a responsibility to contribute to more equality, because we have a long way to go. We know that there is most of the involuntary part-time in our working life among women. We know that women make an average of 15 pst. less than men per hour. We know that four out of five rapporteurs are men, and that men dominate the top of most sectors of society. We know that women still take out most of the parental leave and almost all the cash support. In parts of our society, there is still open oppression of women based on religion or culture. Girls and women in the middle of us are subjected to coercion, social control or are denied the right to determine their own lives, their own bodies and their own sexuality. There is no excuse to deprive women of their rights, and no god or tradition can justify oppression. We have to face that oppression with the fight for value. Today there is a new generation of brave women who make it personal political. It reminds us that women's liberation and equality have always existed through struggle. Equality is not a result of Norwegian nature or culture, but of Norwegian women's fight for justice. We are also facing major gender equality struggles for the future: the fight against violence, rape and assault that affects women. Violence against women is raging, every day, around our country. We are not an equal society until every single Norwegian woman breathes freely, without fear of men's violence. The fight for full equality in the labour market must continue. It is a good thing for society that as many women as possible participate fully in professional life, but above all that it is important for each woman, for the freedom and the ability to decide over her own life. That is why the fight for equal pay, for the right to full and permanent jobs and for the ability to combine work and family is so important. Work on a good family policy must continue — a family policy that allows both father and mother to combine family life and working life, so that there is more equality in the workplace and more equality in the home. Our task is to take the pioneer work further. When someone stands on this pulpit in 100 years, they're going to celebrate even more than what we celebrate this year. Then we have to be as steadfast champions of equality as those we celebrate today. Even when it is not popular, even when forces that want to return take up protests, even when it costs – even then we have to fight for political solutions that give women greater security and freedom, and the same opportunities as men. I am absolutely sure of one thing, and that is that the women who have fought equal rights for all the years since 1913 would probably appreciate speeches from us today, but first of all they would want action. Therefore, let this day not become an unpolitical mark of the past, but a political mark of the future. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e219	The struggle for more democracy and for women's rights has not been fought by a movement alone. There are strong stories of courageous women of the past within all political movements, among civil society and business organisations. We all have our representatives, who have their share of the honour that Norway is today one of the world's most equal countries. Women did not get the right to vote – it was a fight that women fought and won. Hard work, broad mobilization and enormous commitment led to it. Norwegian democracy grew up bit by bit through the 1800s. In a country with small differences, there was a level playing field to give all equal rights. This made it possible to become one of the first countries in the world where women had the right to vote in national Parliaments. Equally important is the fact that in 1913 the decision made women optional, although questions can also be asked today whether women are actually as well represented as men in political forums. The story of how women gained their right to vote through a broad political effort before they were given equal political rights also tells the story of the strong commitment and power of the volunteer organizations in this country. Organisations have challenged people to take responsibility on their own initiative and thus become involved in the decisions they are affected by. Policy was long a arena reserved for men, and the organisations became arenas where women were more likely to relax both before they were given their formal rights and in time after, where the norms primarily gave men access to political pulpits. Voluntaryness is one of the values that we're going to put at the top of our society, and as I think it's a big political responsibility to facilitate in the best way. Voluntary activities have many good purposes and effects. The influence or development of democracy may be of the utmost importance. As the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, and for me as a representative of the Nord-Trøndelag, I must also mention Fredrikke Marie Qvam in particular. She is often referred to as one of the major strategists behind the general voting decision and made a formidable effort to collect 300000 signatures for the Union resolution. "Even if our voices don't count, they can be weighed," said Fredrikke Marie Qvam. The signatures were a good argument that women should also be given the right to vote. She founded the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association in 1896, an organisation that clearly supported the abolition of the Union with the Swedes. The Sanitation Association was the women's arena. They organised and fought through decisions that have been crucial for Norway as an independent nation. The fight against the Union and democratisation went hand in hand. The efforts of Fredrikke Marie Qvam contributed both to the Union resolution and to the voting rights of women. The range of quotations from Storting’s debates on general voting rights contains many opinions that may seem almost comical today. But the Left-Man Ole Anton Qvam, the man of Fredrikke Marie Qvam, stood up as a radical champion of equal rights. He said, "We have in our social work, in our self-employment, in our public and private lives need all good forces in the people, we cannot avoid them." A society with small differences gave ground to such thoughts. It gave room for more democracy, to let more people go. Today, 100 years later, Ole Anton Qvam's message remains the same. We need all the good forces, we can't be without anyone who will contribute to our society. And just to succeed in this, evenness and small differences are important assumptions. The equality struggle is not a struggle for the impatient. Not until 1987, the turnout was about as high for men and women. The size has never reached 40 pst. the proportion of women. Among the rapporteurs too, there is great potential for improvement – 78 pst. by the rapporteurs of the country are men. The responsibility for the whole population to be better represented lies with us who now have the power. In our own parties and in our political function, we can do a job to raise the debates, give room to the talents and build up the obstacles. Work to give women the same opportunities, rights and obligations as men take an infinite amount of time. Only this year, in 2013, the Stortinget will take a decision on gender-neutral protection obligations. For youth organisations and also for me personally, this is an important milestone – finally, the defence of the country is recognised as a common responsibility for the whole population. The Bond Movement is the roots of the Center Party. Women have always been an important part of agriculture, a premise that work on the farm would be done. In 1946, Liv Tomter from Nes in Akershus joined the Stortinget Agriculture Committee as a representative. She knew a lot about the women's tough working day around the countryside. They took the job of tending the animals on the farms. Her banner was to get the many farms where the women did what they had done for thousands of years. They carried the water buckets from wells and basins to domestic animals, for washing clothes and for cooking. There had to be another woman. As Liv Tomter said, «the vast majority of these worn-out women have not had the opportunity to speak their case for the public». [[...]] She became their spokesperson and had a laborious impact on an expansion that meant a huge difference for tens of thousands of hardworking women all over the country. The story of Liv Tomter speaks his clear language that women themselves must be represented, not trust that we men speak their case. The Odel Act has roots all the way back to Magnus Lagbøte's national law in 1274. However, the main decision on equal opportunities in agriculture was taken in 1974 — the right to vote for both sexes. This resolution was also taken after great scepticism and debate. It's also a cross of thought that as late as 40 years ago, there was also a lot of resistance to giving women extraterrestrial rights. It continues to be absolutely necessary to maintain the law of no part of the law, inter alia. to ensure equal opportunities for girls with their brothers. In retrospect, better social protection rights and welfare systems have been central to improving equality in rural areas in general and in agriculture in particular. Of course, this has been important for women, but most importantly it has been for the industry itself. Without it being possible for both women and men to take over and run a farm, agriculture would have been many capable farmers poorer. If we look back in time, there are strong female customs that have created what Norway we know today. They've gone ahead, they've thought new and seen the possibilities. Not least they have dared, despite opposition and the power to take responsibility for others but themselves and their own. A lot of people have probably become both limbs of, hounded, tried to scare in place, but the results speak for themselves. Revolutionary decisions have been taken, so has recognition. Exposure costs. Also in today's society there are many women who break barriers every day and go up the road for those who come after, who can easily reach their ambitions. Today’s gender equality struggles are equally important – developments must continue. Today, we have also made radical decisions – small and large. But the generations after us, I think, are going to remember us for the nursery, for the father's allowance, and for the law on quotas in the boards, to mention a few examples. The equality debate is now not least about room for choice, given the life situation of each individual. Family policies and gender policies are often set up against each other. We still need quotas, decisions and rights – freedom of choice does not come about by itself. There is no lack of debate on gender equality policy, and the fierce discussions take us further. In my opinion, we should pay more attention to respect for the individual's choices. The variety depends on tolerance. The norms for the female role are still restrictive. Finally, I would like to thank those who today still see that the battle is not over, who take responsibility differently as courageous spokespersons, in positions and positions, and who, not least, despite the human bastions. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e266	So 100 years ago, on June 11, 1913, Norwegian women were given equal voting rights. A 27-year-long struggle for women's voting was crowned with victory. Norway's Constitution, which in 1814 was regarded as one of the most democratic of its kind, was to round almost 100 years before the women had their political rights enforced. In fact, the amendment to the 1913 voting paragraph merely clarified that Norwegian citizens meant both ‘Men and Women’. The paragraph on voting rights said nothing about sex. The mariners used the term ‘citizens’. When, in 1815, the Stortinget expressed dissatisfaction with this and wished to clarify that women were not taken into account in the paragraph, the Constitutional Committee felt that such clarification was not necessary. It was not until the end of the 1880s that the requirement for women's voting began to apply. The Norwegian Women's Association was established in 1884, and the following year the Women's Association was formed. Today, we have come to the conclusion that the Constitutional Commission in its report, with a new proposal for a linguistic revision of the Constitution, proposes to remove the clarification ‘men and women’, which was added in 1913. So, in the 1800s it was clearly believed that Norwegian citizens were men only, we are here today in this situation, 200 years later, that it is equally obvious that the term now includes women. We were among the first countries in the world to introduce general voting rights for both women and men. The celebration of this is about women and about women's affairs. And even more: it's about the introduction of democracy and general voting rights. General voting was a milestone in the work of a society of equality and equality for all. But it was by no means an end point. Let me add, as the previous speaker also pointed out, that there were many who put forward the idea of democracy and the right to vote for women. There is a very interesting article in the newspaper Our Country today by Kristin Norseth, who says something about the importance of these movements: ‘The democratically organised movements of people have played a far more important role in terms of women’s and voting rights than what appears in the public. In 1904, women were given the right to vote and to stand for election in the oldest and most influential Christian organization in the Norwegian Missionary Society. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] The recent Women's Act gave a political signal to this decision, claiming that the decision would be 'the most active one for the rapid establishment of the civil right for women, not a single Hook except'. We're not going to take man's equivalency and equality for granted. The fight continues today as well. It doesn't matter. We have to make clear choices. On this anniversary of women’s voting rights, I will highlight some important elements in the recent gender equality history that are important from our point of view in the Christian People’s Party – and for Norway. At the political level, we have to recognise that, until perhaps around 1970, this was more for the government's sake, that you had to bring one woman – it was only during the Borten government that you got two women. Let me take an example of the First Council of the Christian People's Party, Elsa Schirven and how she experienced coming to the Ministry of Family and Consumer Affairs in 1965: «Elsa Schirven asked» – and this goes on in Nynorsk – «what things were there. It was one. It was a proposal from the central party woman Karen Green-Hagen, who had the department of Lyng government, to restore Bunadsnenne. The subject came on its legs again, and there were several things coming soon." Elsa Schirven then got the opportunity that might not be as simple today, to set his own agenda, and what was it? Well, she made sure that the state nursery allowance increased – and in parentheses I can probably add that she also had some rounds to explain this in her own party layers – and she provided loans via the House Bank for the construction of day care institutions and state support for home care and home care. We are also, of course, proud of our first female party leader, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, who made some of the most radical proposals for equality policy promoted in Norway. And it has to be allowed to say, since it's Laila Bavøy presiding, that it was Laila Bavøy who made the proposition of at least 40 pst. by each sex in the boards. Congratulations to the President! Now I guess I belong to the generation that has grown up with Gro Harlem Brundtland as Prime Minister, and I think we're all very happy that she's here today. We were in that situation – and I get to use a story that if it's true, sure is very good, isn't it true, isn't it so bad anyway: about the boy talking about the government change when Gro had to go off, and then he asks, "Who's going to be prime minister?" And then it was Kåre Willoch. Can a man be prime minister, then, he asked. It says a little bit about how much Gro Harlem Brundtland has put his mark on the political debate, and we honour her today for the effort she has made. Fortunately, she has by no means contributed the years. Now it is the fight against child marriage that is on the agenda. Not least there are too many girls around the world. Christian democracy is based on equal value for men and women, regardless of gender, and presupposes equal opportunities for women and men to participate in society and to influence social development. Political and economic power is important in the struggle for equality. The aim must be to ensure that women's and men's knowledge, experience and values have an equivalent impact on all levels and aspects of society. In the last 100 years, Norway has evolved into one of the world’s most equal societies, but we still have challenges. This applies to wages, pensions and several areas where there is a clear under-representation of women. We know that employment in Norway is gender-divided, and that the professions that are female-dominated are less paid than those that are male-dominated. Women are under-represented in important decision-making bodies — as was also demonstrated by the Electoral Survey of Power and Democracy, as it is called, when it was presented in 2003. Another important area of gender equality challenges is violence and abuse. I dare say that violence in close relationships is Norway's biggest health and social problem. Everyone has the right to a life without violence. The woman has the right to a life free of violence and threats. Children shall be guaranteed a growth without attack and fear. Freedom from violence is a fundamental prerequisite for growth and development of life and for living the good life. We also have other challenges. This can happen when girls and boys are molded into gender roles that restrict their choice and prevent their own diversity. Here the school still has a big problem. Sexual harassment helps to prevent gender equality, and media help to communicate and shape expectations, roles and opportunities. One day like this, I think – like the representative Siv Jensen – it's right to look a little beyond our own country. In three days' time there will be elections in Iran. It's a choice that women can't stand as candidates. That's one example of what challenges we have internationally. The four words: ‘It’s a girl’ have actually proved to be four of the most deadly words in the world. According to U.N. estimates, 200 million girls have met the most unblemished fate that you can imagine, just because you have the sex you have. In the last 100 years, Norwegian society has evolved to become more and more equal. We've been taking steps since 1913. We've moved towards a society with more space for everyone. Today’s anniversary marks one of the most important and fundamental prerequisites for this development. The mariners were wise men, but they were also men of their time. That's why you didn't see that women should participate. Neither did one see that no one should be excluded because of race or faith. Now we have to be able to look beyond our own time. It's our job to see what and not least who should be lifted in order to achieve equality and equality. That's our common problem. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e335	I also want to start by congratulating everyone with the day. It is right that the day we celebrate today, and all the freedoms we can feel like citizens in Norway, which is most often the result of a long struggle, how many have gone in the way for us. I'm a woman, single and party leader. There's actually not so many countries where you can have all of those properties. I'm very fortunate, knowing that we've had so many ladies in front of us who have broken the road. I acknowledge Siv Jensen's right to be proud of her grandmother, but I'm proud – as Left Leader – to be allowed to stand in a tradition with all the liberal Left ladies who fought the rights we have today – especially what we celebrate right now. I think there are many of the ladies sitting up there today and looking down, who are quite proud that the Left in this election period has accomplished a clean women's group, sail if they are very amazed at how small it is. But it's a wonder I share with them, and I hope we can do something with it. Fredrikke Marie Qvam, Gina Krog and Katti Anker Møller – all the great ladies – did not just fight female voting. They also fought out the important women's issues of building a welfare state, a public health struggle, not least children's rights and what I think is a propriety in politics. Similarly, Eva Kolstad has been important. She was the first female party leader in the party that was also among the first to use quotaing as an instrument, and she was the first equality officer we had in Norway. The left has stood in the front when it comes to extending the voting rights every single time, and we haven't given up. The big fight now is to extend the voting rights to the 16-year-olds. There is an important part of the construction of democracy in Norway today. There are a lot of areas we're obliged to work on. There are a lot of debates and a lot of rights we still need. We're not a completely equal country. I can start with a little unofficial countdown: from my position in the back, I have during 82 question hours and presentations the gender distribution in that box next to me, which is called the press department. There are 810 men and 169 women sitting there during the 82 presentations. That means that also in those who cover political debate, gender balance is not always the same. Other important struggles are equal pay, the sex-shared labour market we have, and a work environment law that pushes people into part-time work, and that gives few opportunities for people to manage their own work day against their own family life. We have an academy that depends enormously on equality. We see that the women are the ones who deliver the doctoral degrees down the system, but when the professor's titles are to be handed out, only men are in line. We have to fight on for the same parenthood. That means that men and women should have the same opportunity to be the most important adults in their children's lives as they should actually be. The number of women entrepreneurs has dropped by 7.2 pst. for the period 2007 to 2012. Only one-fourth – 25 pst. – by those who pursue their idea of creating a business or creating their own jobs, women. I think one of the reasons for that is that many of the social rights that women from this room have fought for when it comes to government employees and employees in general, do not apply to those who will pursue an idea, persecute their creative power to participate in creating their own job. Therefore, social rights are equally important for those who want to be entrepreneurs, as for those who are employees. Violence affects women very much more often than men. So far, we have had ten partner killings in Norway. Attacking violence in close relationships with much more active instruments, I think, is an important challenge in this Chamber as well. Women's involvement in politics has influenced the construction of the Norwegian welfare state. It has affected how we have built kindergartens. It has affected how we have built children's rights, and I think it is strange that we, the night to celebrate women's voting rights, arrest a young child of 12 years, who has lived in Norway for ten years. I don't think the great ladies up in heaven would have liked that, if they sit and look down at us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e370	Today we're going to have parties because there's every reason to celebrate. But on an anniversary, it's also important that we stop a little and think about why we can celebrate. The right to vote for women did not come by itself. There were those who fought it out, and the resistance was great. Former grossingsmann Ole Olsen Malm said the following: «Should we now, in addition to the influence that women have behind the scenes, and which she will unfortunately always keep, even give her the right to vote, it will not be able to endure.» But he lost, and it was adopted – unanimously. Gina Krog and other pioneers won. When the decision was finally reached, we were among the very first in the world. Only three countries around the world had given women full rights in elections before us. From an old age, the «brother of the inheritance» was twice that the sister poem was worth when inheritance was to be distributed. Once, women's wages in the factories were half the men's wages. This is no longer the case, because someone saw the unfairness and chose differently – they acted. In the 1970s, the right to self-determined abortion was adopted in this Chamber. It didn't come of itself either. The decision was taken with the President's double voice in Odelstinget, and with one vote in the Lamentations. It can't be even. Women's entry into working life meant that many people engaged and fought for a large-scale kindergarten development. That too met with resistance. In recent decades, the parental leave has increased considerably, once again as a result of political elections. We also have challenges in the future. We're not in the goal, so we have to keep making the right choices. We see it in many areas, for example: in elected bodies, where only one in five rapporteurs is women. Some lots have selected the gender allowance for nomination. We know that it has worked. When several parties adopted quotas in the 1970s and 1980s, we got a woman's share increase. The women's government of Gro Harlem Brundtland in 1986, with over 40 pst. women, set a new standard for how many women there should be in a Norwegian government. It is about working life: there are still pay differentials between women’s dominated and man-dominated professions that are otherwise comparable. Still, many women work involuntary part-time. This is about family policy: we must pursue a family policy that promotes equality and freedom of choice. It's about offering reasonable and good kindergartens to everyone who wants it. Once this government has reduced the amount of cash support and the bet on kindergartens, it is among other things. because we believe it promotes equality, especially for women with ethnic minority backgrounds, where we may find those who today need more equality and social participation by far the most. Not least for these, it is important to make working more profitable. It's about men having to take more responsibility for equality. In the past, men were for equality, only there was something women were doing. We have to have equality in the workplace, and then we have to have equality in family life. That was the background for the paperwork. Several fathers take out cardboard, and an increasing proportion of the parental killers are taken out of the fathers. When the father quota came in 1993, only took 2-3 pst. of Norwegian fathers out of leave. Already in 1994, the figure rose to 38 p.m., and today nine out of ten fathers who have the right to take out a father's quota are using that right. The birth rate is an instrument for breaking down barriers and changing inherited traditions and gender roles. This way it helps to give real freedom of choice. Without such an allowance, we are easily bound by the old traditions and the old gender roles. Hardly a single decision than the introduction of Dad's quota has contributed more to gender equality in recent years. Increased parental withdrawal is good for the child, because it gives better ties to both parents. It's good for dad, who gets closer ties with his kids, and it's good for mom, who gets better opportunities to participate in the work. The list could have been done much longer. We see gender equality challenges in business, in young people's educational choices, in violence against women, and more elsewhere in society. Soon one of the last human bastions may fall, as many parties in our country have adopted gender-neutral protection obligations at their national meetings. It can be introduced during the next large-scale period. Although we still have many challenges, Norway is often ranked as one of the world’s most equal countries to live in. We notice that it's moving forward. In the population survey presented tomorrow, the issue of the organisation of authorities for equality between women and men is far higher than three years ago. The increase is the largest individual change throughout the study. So we're more satisfied with our ability to facilitate equality. We shall be proud of this. An equal, open and inclusive society is something that we all serve, both economically and because it gives us a higher quality of life. We have a high level of employment among women, while relatively many children are born. One of the main driving forces for this to be possible is the development of welfare schemes, by the public sector, of public services. The welfare state is the best friend of women for two reasons: Firstly, because today the community is helping to solve tasks that women previously alone were doing, unremunerated, such as care for the elderly, kindergartens, school leisure schemes – schemes that provide a good offer for the elderly and children, but also allow far more women to participate in paid work. Secondly, because the public sector has just brought many women into the labour market. 77 pst. of those working in Norwegian municipalities are women. But at the same time, the welfare state would not have been possible without the contribution of women. The value of Norwegian women working more than in other western countries represents an equal share of national wealth as well as oil wealth, including the pension fund. Continued wealth requires high employment and new generations of skilled labour of both sexes. The fight for equality and women's rights must also be fought globally. It's a fight against oppression, a fight for democratic rights, a fight for education, also for girls, and literally a fight for life and health. Every two minutes, a woman in pregnancy dies somewhere in the world. Most of them die for reasons that could easily have been prevented. This is one of many examples of tragedies that women are exposed to, and where Norway can participate and make a difference. The equality does not come about by itself. For the last 100 years, stone by stone has expanded the rule of the people and the welfare community. The fact that women were given the same formal democratic rights as men has left a clear mark. The pioneers we celebrate today set bold goals in their time, and they won. We shall aim to break borders in our time – shape our future. 100 years have taught us that we reach the longest time when women and men share work, responsibility and recognition. Then we have the power to break borders, then we have the power to give more than one better everyday life. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-11.ana.ud1066e438	Then Stortinget's meeting goes to an end, and the president feels, in a day like this, the need to thank for all the good speeches. Then the president will invite everyone out to Eidsvoll's place at noon. 15 for cake party and great entertainment. It'll be until noon. 18 in the evening, so welcome, all of you! – The meeting of the Storting has been cancelled.
