ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e26	The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Ingvild Kjerkol, has taken the seat. The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e34	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the amendment of Law No 2 June 1989. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. and opening hours and sales in connection with public holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e39	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e51	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Mr Vegar Solhjell, Mr Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Mr Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e58	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs a question. Norwegian farming is in many ways a success story. This year it is approx. 42 years since we got the first successful release of salmon in Norway. Until today, this has become an industry that has evolved to export for values well over 30 billion. kr, and demand is increasing. In 2012, despite high demand, the government chose not to implement a new concession round linked to several farming concessions, while, in the context of the current year’s budget, it now chose to propose 45 new but so-called green salmon concessions, to be awarded in 2013. The problem is you haven't defined what a green salmon concession is for anything. It's interesting to get a little more knowledge of, because in my opinion, all salmon concessions and any breeding concession have to be green. Account must be taken of the environment and veterinary conditions. This is the case in many ways in the farming industry already today, but the problem is that we have some challenges related to wild fish, as a result of escape from installations, and we also have problems related to lice. The problem is this: can the Council of State be more specific about telling us what a green salmon concession should include and be? It's time for you to know something more about it soon. If it can't go far in the year without you actually know who can apply for the concessions, and what that could mean. In addition, 35 of these concessions actually have to return an ordinary to get a green back. What is a specific green salmon concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e71	I fully agree with the representative Nesvik in his description of the success story of the aquaculture industry. It's a fantastic story that has brought value creation to the country, created jobs along the coast, and it produces food in a world that needs more of it. I also fully agree with the description that this is essentially a green industry. There's nothing more important than producing food, and this is a very sustainable food production. We still agree that the same green and sustainable industry has some environmental challenges related to the wild species. That is the background to the fact that some of the first things I did as a councillor, after I entered in 2009, was to stop a previously announced growth – then with a background in lice. When we look at escape – we'll be careful to base it on a trend description – there's at least a very happy development in the escape figures from last year. It's something I want to help keep going. The same applies to lice: in farms there is little lice, at least compared to what it was many years ago. But again we see that there is lice especially on the trout. I want to contribute to a development that allows us to manage the loop situation. That's why, through this announced allocation in 2013, we set some green requirements. The requirements and solutions should be better than those we have today, but to make sure that we meet, we will work thoroughly with an allocation regulation, which will be notified in good time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e86	In the state budget, 450 million have been made available. kr related to these concessions. It is not an insignificant amount – even in the Norwegian state budget. Then it's a little strange that you've earned 450 million. kr, but you do not know what criteria should be used to get that money into the state budget. I expect from the Council of State – because it is the responsibility of the Council of State – at least a few thoughts have been made about what kind of demands to make, at least when you have said that this should be the growth of industry, and we know about all the problems and discussions that have been – back and forth with new concessions. Now the state council spent a relatively long time not answering the question, so I want to ask her to spend some time answering the question as well. Could you be a little bit more specific about what this could mean by claims, because we're talking about 450 million. kr in the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e95	I notice that the representative Nesvik does not want me to take the time to agree with him. I fully respect that. As for the requirements that we are going to set, I am very concerned that they should be professionally thoughtful. And that's also why we, on the government side, have said that we're going to bring in the best experts in the field, in particular to review the applications that are coming, so that we're absolutely sure that we're meeting with the goal. It's two degrees of greenness. One is what we call dark green, where there's to be a significant improvement in achieving, especially related to lice and escape. Then we have the light greens that have to be better. It will then also be largely up to the individual applicant to demonstrate that this is better and proven. As a politician, I'm not going to sit and determine what's better. I think we should leave that to both those who understand it, namely the experts, and not least the industry, who are going to deliver on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e108	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and there is a need to do so. First follow-up questions are from the representative Oskar J. Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e113	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e118	It is permissible to ask questions to another State Council, but then within the same theme as the main question. Let's start over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e123	As was shown in the question that has come up now, this green concession is an environmental concession. Here you can find information about light green, dark green and different green colors. The comments from the industry when it comes to getting a concession within a so-called green concession are that some call it the happy madness, while others say that this is the only way the minister could grow in the industry while keeping the red-green house peace. Representatives of the FHL, the Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, also say that the Green Concession proposal raises a number of questions, particularly on the Environment side of the Ministry of the Environment, when it concerns the clarification of what a green concession is. The question is, how does the Minister for the Environment define a green concession? Is it on the loop? Is it on the run? Or is it going on both? Is there any other supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e132	The government – the whole government – has presented the main outline of a green concession scheme for Stortinget. And as the Minister for Fisheries said, it is 35 of those who are to be allocated to the exchange of existing concession, based on better technology and environmental practices than established in the industry, while 10 of them must have significantly better practices. So there's two different levels or degrees. Then the government will come back and present what exactly it is supposed to mean in the application process, and establish a professional college or council to deal with the applications, and that is in the process of presenting the exact criteria on which the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will be based. So they're going to mean, at least as I see it, a possibility for a much better development in the future of farming, which is going to be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e138	Frank Bakke-Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e141	Now you should almost have wanted Schjøtt-Pedersen here, who could have answered what the government really meant, but I get to ask my question to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. On 21 November, at the Maritime Administration Conference of the Council of Ministers, State Secretary Kristine Gramstad stated that the criteria for and the definition of green concessions were to be developed by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department itself. However, during the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee in the farming industry, the Minister for the Protection of the Environment stated the following: ‘In my view, it is precisely important that a professional college should enter and define the environmental requirements necessary.’ Compared to the nutritionists who are going to put 10 million. kr on a concession to drive value creation forward, I think it might be quite important that we get a clarification. Who is to set the final requirements? Who shall set the final requirements for what a green concession is – before the industry starts and value it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e153	There is no doubt that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is preparing award criteria. That's a regulation, and that's what the department is going to do. Whoever we consult with in such a process is in and of itself a matter for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Government. I want to use the best skills to consult me – to get the best award criteria. Then I would like to remind you that it is the 9th of January today. We still have many days left of this year, both to complete the allocation regulation and not least to light it up. I dare say that I know this industry well, and they are so eager to contribute to an environmentally sustainable nutrition that I am absolutely not worried that the industry will not get on the road in this case as well. I've met many people who have presented good solutions. So it's not given that it's going to be 10 million. kr. There are some concessions that are at a fixed price, and then there's an auction in the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e164	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e167	Just because this is a success story, it's incredibly important that it does well. It has only been a few months since the National Audit Office in its report on the aquaculture industry confirmed, as the Christian People's Party has repeatedly expressed, that the farming industry was not sustainable or environmentally adapted. 2012 was really a gloomy year when it applied to salmonmus, especially in farms along the Norwegian coast. Professor Are Nylund of the Institute for Biology at the University of Bergen says: ‘There is no doubt that PD is completely out of control. The virus spreads all ways and we have outbreaks from Finnmark to Hordaland." Then there's a cross-thinking that the government chooses to increase the quotas, the so-called green quotas, as they call it, and has no criteria. Is it the case that it is the individual applicant, as the Council of State now said, who is going to think about what will be an improvement, or can the Council of State now say that at least this will be about salmonmus and about escape – so that you already have some criteria in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e179	The answer is yes, lice and escape criteria will be set for improving the two environmental challenges. I feel confident that we will be able to establish good criteria with the top experts, but once again, it is the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs that lays down the regulations. I am also sure that there will be solutions that will meet the requirements that are being set. We have been presented with many solutions during the last year, and so far also in the past. The challenge is to put them into commercial use. Some are a little more at the research stage – there are opportunities through research concessions – and some are ready for more commercial use. I'm experiencing a lot of commitment and not what's being presented from the opposition today. Among other things, used words as ‘smooth insanity’ from the representative Grimstad. I feel that there are a lot of people who think this is good. It'll help us get a new boost in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e188	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e191	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Norwegian consumers tighten the lifeline after Christmas. Then they asked for the chicken. Chicken is the deficit, and it has been for a long time. There has been so much deficit that you have had to import chicken for reduced customs duties. Now I know that the Minister of Agriculture is more happy in Norwegian-produced food than the one that comes from other countries, and he has the solution. There is currently a concession limit for chicken producers of 120000 chickens per year. This means that you cannot take advantage of the large investments made in the individual chicken poultry. That means they're empty a part of the year, with correspondingly poor profitability. We have raised this matter earlier. It's been a problem for a long time. There is no doubt that with the objectives that exist to raise the profitability of Norwegian agriculture, the Council of State should do something about this. My question is briefly as follows: When can we expect the Council of State to propose to increase the concession limit, so that it will improve profitability for Norwegian farmers and producers and not least enough chicken for Norwegian consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e204	I want to start by commenting on the market situation for chicken. There are seasonal variations in all industries, seasonal variations in the level of trade, and what has now been produced as a chicken weight in Norwegian shops in some media has not been confirmed either by the trading venue itself or by the supplier. For example, ICA Norway says: that there are some shops that have had low orders and do not see how much turnover they would have in the new year, and that it will be quick when the shops place good enough orders. One of the big suppliers, Cardinal Foods, says they have enough chicken, but they just have to get it out at the stores according to the orders available. So the fact that there have been some shops that haven't had enough chicken fillet is probably because some of us have eaten so much ribs and others that we might want to eat another kind of meat in the New Year. But those who are in the shot line here don't confirm the reality description that underlies the question, that there's a chicken failure. So it's the way in the food industry that you can't always take in goods until you know what market demand is, because one of the big challenges in Norway is that we throw a lot of food – almost a third of the food that is produced is thrown – and it makes sense that you don't always have an overcapacity within all of the stores, because that will make us get even more food waste. So I don't share the main concern of the representative Fleet that we have a chicken failure in Norway. We have a good market situation, and it is also added to that we are going to increase the production of chicken in the year that comes, because there are more that are going to eat chicken.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e213	I understand from the Council of State that this problem is also the fault of the Norwegian food chains, as is most of the other. But it's a fact that chicken is imported, and I don't think the SLF – the State Agriculture Administration – would have allowed it if they didn't see that this was a market problem. This is not new. We had it up with the previous Minister of Agriculture – who is sitting up there – a year or so ago. Then it was exactly the same news of market failure. But now leave it. Let's say that the Council of State is right in this. Why would he not, however, allow the concession limits to be increased so as to increase the profitability of all those who have already invested, instead of having to recruit new suppliers to borrow money again and have a similar bad situation? Is it socio-economic good policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e220	We have concession regulation on several of the power-feed productions. The major challenge in agriculture, which the fleet representative faces, is to be able to produce in relation to the demand for the market. If you produce too much of a fresh commodity, it's not fresh long, and it loses value. So we have to be able to hit and get a market balance. In the last year, we've seen it, for example. the case of pigs, where there has been a slight overproduction of pigmeat in Norway, the dramatic impact on the economy of that part of the industry. Therefore, it is important to have a stability in concession law that allows people to know which concessions to deal with when they invest, so that in the short term we do not again face major overproduction challenges. If we get overproduction, we lose all terms on it. In assessing concession law, at least some of the most important must be to ensure the stability and predictability of operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e226	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e229	Obviously, the Council of State does not want to give Norwegian chicken producers the opportunity to increase production and thus increase profitability in their investments. The Agriculture Investigation Office recently produced a report showing that Norwegian agriculture is not equipped to achieve the objectives set by the government in the agricultural notification just a few months ago. In fact, when the Council of State has such an attitude towards increased production and profitability and will not even allow the chicken farmers to benefit from the production capacity they already have, this is an additional contribution to the objective of the agricultural notification as an airlock. How is the Council of State going to set up Norwegian agricultural policy in order for his and the government's objective to appear to be attainable and credible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e238	To the very question: there are many ways to set up Norwegian agricultural policies to achieve that objective. One question was discussed quite a lot before Christmas – also with the representative from More and Romesdal – and that is to ensure customs protection. If we are to be able to have a good agricultural production in Norway, we are totally dependent on a well-functioning and good customs protection. When we were here in the hall before Christmas and discussed customs, one thought there would be a crisis mood here now, but now 1 January has arrived, and it looks as if things are going quite well in the country anyway, although some products have gotten an increased percentage. This is the main instrument. In addition, we must have good agricultural settlements in the future, so that we can ensure profitability in Norwegian agriculture. Then it's not a simsalabim just to remove the concession law and let go of everything. It is going to lead to many of those who are in this production today losing a lot of money. If you look at pigs and the surplus of pork – which I got more questions about from the opposition before Christmas – the profitability would be very poor if you let it go, because this is a long-term industry. Predictability is required if people are to dry up their investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e247	The council replied to a representative earlier that they had seasonal fluctuations that caused them to have too little chicken. It's with respect to not reporting correctly. In May, the meat industry and farmers went out and said that we were going to get too little chicken over the year – and more – if we didn't get a gradual concession increase or did something about the concession increase. He was asked by the industry to do something about this. The council said no to do anything about it, and today we are dealing with too little chicken. We also see that we have little of a lot of other things from agriculture, like milk and meat in the systems. So my question to the Council of State is: isn't it time for the Council of State to realise that the agricultural policy is being pursued, that the industry has problems getting enough food production, and that Norwegian citizens are actually being chased over to Sweden to act?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e254	It's so touching sometimes to hear the Progress Party and the Träldal's concern about Norwegian food production when we know what they proposed in their own budget before Christmas, with a halving of the transfers and not improving customs protection. We had not produced many Norwegian agricultural products, we would not have had any Norwegian food industry if the Progress Party had been able to make an impact on its policy. Not least in that part of the country where the representative comes from, it would have been impossible to operate economically within volume. The reason we did the grips we did before Christmas was that we had to secure volume into the industry, so that we could have profitability at all stages. But that is a change The Progress Party is against, and therefore the concerns we are now hearing are more like crocodile tears than real tears.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e259	I was a little excited if the council would walk in one of their predecessors' footsteps and recommend each man's hen. He didn't. Now it was more about chicken. As you know, there's someone who likes the mother, and others who like the daughter. [[Laughter]] I have listened with interest to the Council of State's assessments regarding the catch of chicken. Now I'm going to try to ask you a little simple, since it's early in the year, etc.: Has the Council of State considered looking at the ceiling of production and making it a little more flexible, or is the Council of State there that everything is very well, even though many consumers in the shops actually experience posters that there is no chicken to get?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e266	Just in the case of poultry meat, it's enough to take the youngest version, chicken meat, because we don't eat that much in Norway. We've had such good habits, so that's why we eat chicken. Back to the question: what's important is that if you see a look up on VG Nett e.l., you don't have to think that any look up on VG Net shows what reality really is. The reality is not that in the market there is a major problem of chicken failure in Norway. The main reason that some shops now have it is that the store's sales manager has ordered a little too little chicken. There are a little more people who have eaten chicken after Christmas than they thought. It may be related to New Year's resolutions, etc. But it is clear that a sales manager in Norway cannot predict exactly what kind of demand it will be for chicken in his store. Some have bombed, and now they order more. This is not as big a problem as you want it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e273	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e276	The ice in the North Pole melts faster than any of us had thought. More and more countries report climate change that already affects their nature, their crops and their fish populations. The worst thing is that the climate change that comes is going to hit the generations of the future, and they're going to hit the poorest. Once again, it is the poorest who have to pay the price for the rich countries – and for our emissions. In the debate on climate there are often big words, but unfortunately little action. In any case, these are results that are absent. To use Bellona's words, we've had eight lost years for the climate. The result for Norway is that since 1990 – based on the Kyoto commitments, we should increase by 1 pst. – our emissions have increased by 5.8 pst. In order to meet our obligations, we use quotas. The poor countries are cutting, so we can increase more. If we compare with our neighbouring countries Denmark and Sweden, they have cut their emissions by 15 and 20 pst respectively. more than they had in the Kyoto commitments. This morning, I heard the Environment Minister on the radio. I usually agree very much when I hear him, and he uses the words that are right. But it helps so little when the action is not there. When it's so urgent, why don't we cut? Why are emissions rising? When it's so urgent, why don't we meet the climate agreement to the point and the point – and maybe go even further? So my questions to the Minister for the Environment are: What is the reason why Norway, unlike Sweden and Denmark, has to use quotas – that is, shift responsibility to the poor countries – instead of cutting at home? And what will he do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e285	This was a genuine and genuine concern about the problems and a good description, but a relatively erroneous analysis of what is happening in Norway when it comes to the climate issue. In fact, we have done a lot in the last seven years and are a leader in international environmental policy. Firstly, we are fulfilling the Kyoto agreement – Norway is fulfilling it. In addition, we overfill him with 10 pst. Secondly, Norwegian emissions are much lower in 2012 than they would have been if it had not been for the first climate agreement and all the measures we are implementing. Norwegian emissions were the last year we've had figures for, the lowest we've had since 1995. So we've come forward with a message and made a compromise for further ambitions towards 2020. That is because the turnaround, stabilisation and weak decline we saw in 2011, is not enough. We need to get down even more. Norway is going to cut by 30 pst. By 2020, two thirds here at home. Therefore, there are a number of new, heavy measures in the climate communication and – later – even more in the climate agreement. So we do a lot of international through quotas. I'm very much in favour of that, as an addition to what we're doing at home. So it's not like it's some kind of breeding -- on the contrary. For example, what is called the CDM, or the Green Development Mechanism, is something that the developing world has been a driving force for, and that has been important to them, because it transfers money from rich to poor countries and gives them the ability to cut emissions. It is not possible to solve the climate problem without doing a lot in poor countries, in addition to what we do in rich countries. It has just been an external evaluation. It shows that the green development mechanism has probably contributed to CO2 cut in the size of one billion tonnes and to the transfer of 215 billion. kr to u-country from rich land. If it is not important both environmental and development policies, it is difficult to understand the entrance of the Christian People's Party to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e301	That's what's interesting when I hear the Minister for the Environment talking, because he doesn't look at the emissions in Norway in the way that we could actually do even more. But he refers to Denmark, he refers to Sweden, which has come much further than Norway. Then he says we're overfulfilling the Kyoto obligation. Yes, thank God for that, but we're just spending some money put into the system, so we're dependent on the poor countries taking their cut. That's also where the double morality actually turns out. In international negotiations, the Minister for the Environment says that each country must commit itself, each country must cut, because we cannot get an international agreement quickly enough – otherwise we will not cut enough in Norway. Then he says that the allowance price has to go up, more allowances have to be scrapped, and then he himself has sold 35 million EU allowances and earned money on it, and only bought 19 million CDM allowances, because that's the way it is based on the commitments. That is why the question is also: does the Council of State think that this is a good policy, rather than scrapping EU quotas, rather than selling them, helping to ensure that the price does not go up, and helping to ensure that there is no shortage of quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e309	Here it was so much different. I'll try to order it. One point: Norway has done a lot in climate policy in the last seven and a half years. But that hasn't been enough. That's why we put forward a climate announcement in ours that warned additional tough measures, and got a settlement based on it. We have several, including the case-speaker, who have said from the pulpit that it may well be that for years to come there will be a need to go further, because Norway is going to reach the goal of 30 pst. cut by 2020 – perhaps the most ambitious target of today’s international policy on emissions. I see that the representative is laughing, but come up with the country that has more ambitious targets than 30 pst. by 2020!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e316	Denmark – 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e321	So we have what we do internationally. It will not be possible to solve the climate problem without countries like Norway, in addition to what we do home, doing extensive things through rainforest, buying CDM quotas. In addition, we are contributing to a reduction through the EU quota system, where we are working to tighten it up further in the period we are entering now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e326	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e329	We all heard the Prime Minister say in the New Year's Year that this is the most important thing of the time, and we also hear the Council here saying that he has a little concern. But then he's so incredibly proud of what Norway has done, while I have to say that it's been in politics for many years, and that we've really had a people out there that's almost more ambitious than us in here in the house. So I'm incredibly concerned about how short we've come. Kyoto 1 we can't say is part of saving the world – and SV is an idealist party that wants to be with and save the world. SV also tends to be a party that says that the rich have to contribute the most – the rich have to take the greatest responsibility. But when it comes to this matter, I have to say that no one in this room can be proud of how far Norway has come, because we need to do so much more. So I ask myself, does the Council of State and the Prime Minister know that the content of the words they use, that this is serious, is actually so serious that we should have had a completely different pace to bring down emissions in their own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e336	I'm extremely concerned about what the international image looks like when it comes to climate change now, because the window to reach the so-called two-degree goal is very narrow. Global emissions continue to rise. We're not in the vicinity of the appointment we need. I have also been impatient and concerned about Norwegian emissions. That's why we made a climate announcement and got a climate settlement. The climate policy – yes, I am proud of him – is also the climate policy of the Christian People's Party. I just have to remember that. We have an agreement with the Christian People's Party, a consensus on that policy, in the Stortinget. This is necessary because we need to do more to achieve a goal, and we will be forced to do even more in the years of climate policy both in Norway and in other countries. But in addition to that, large countries like the United States, China, Brazil and others need to be included in the international image, and it is unnecessary for Norway to contribute large sums to climate finance and action internationally, not rather than doing things at home, but in addition to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e343	Oskar J. Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e346	It's basically a strange debate to hear – the climate debate and the proposals that come on the table. These are very objectives, but they're missing the tools. Among other things, we see: that the state asks most people to go and buy aviation allowances, then to delete them, while we experience that those who are responsible and who are concerned about the climate issue are buying allowances, and then to sell them on. For example, the representative was called in. The question is, how can the Minister for the Environment defend that he asks people to buy the most aircraft allowances, CO2 allowances, to delete them, while at the same time he is so weak in his own right to delete quotas, in order to achieve the desired target of increasing the quota price?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e358	This is what many people do – for example: what I did on my last vacation – is to buy an allowance to compensate for our own CO2 emissions that we contribute to when we travel by plane. I think it's very reasonable and will encourage everyone to do it, but it's a completely voluntary choice. What the country is doing is that one mainly fulfils the Kyoto commitments through cutbacks in Norway. But then, a few years ago, we announced that we would be overfulfilling our Kyoto commitment by ten pst. We do that in different ways by buying what's called quotas, that is, by contributing money to emission reductions, for example. on a large scale in poor countries. In my view, it is sensible policy, because it spends a great deal of money on poor countries. It contributes to significant CO2 reductions, e.g.: to renewable energy. If we had to delete more allowances in that period, it would have meant even more overfill than the ten percent. I mean, that wouldn't be right. In fact, in the new allowance period from 2013, it is not possible. We're part of a quota market. There must be a community action and care to tighten it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e371	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e374	I will give the Council of State the right to have positive things happening in Norwegian climate policy, and it is not least because the opposition in two rounds has made government policy more ambitious and binding than the government itself has been willing to do. In this context, I recall that both climate announcements submitted by the government have been received with strong scepticism in the environmental movement, but the opposition has helped to strengthen ambitions and to concreteise them. We've been talking a lot about quotas in this row exchange. In 2010, the Klasskamp wrote about a company called Carbon Retirement. This company has analysed the costs of purchasing allowances, which shows that 73 pst. the cost of purchasing allowances — according to this analysis — can be linked to brokers, lawyers, advisers, consultants and public actors, i.e. only 27 cents of each krona goes to climate projects. Is the Council aware of how much of the Norwegian quota purchase costs goes to administration and intermediaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e382	The answer is no. I'm not exactly aware of that. I am also not familiar with the specific article that the representative Astrup mentions, but I am aware that there is generally a significant use of resources in administration, not least on external quality assurance of projects. It's a challenge, but the most important reason is that there should be legitimacy in the system, and because we're going to spend our money on actual emission reductions, I've made very high demands for external quality assurance and follow-up of the individual projects. Not least in the first years of a project, there is considerable resource use on it. I see that it's a challenge, but I think that if we had cut the administrative resources and made quality assurance worse, it would have been an even worse solution. The solution must be that we need to use resources to ensure that the money goes to actual emission reductions, but of course we have to limit the use of resources to the administration as much as possible within that framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e387	Next follow-up question - Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e390	Climate policy affects many other important and important decisions made by a government. Some time ago we got a lot of case investigation related to the Lofoten and the Vesterålen and expansion there. Then the Prime Minister said that no further information is needed about this in order to draw a conclusion. My question to the Council of State is therefore whether the Council of State agrees with the Left's conclusion in the light of the information that has come to date, that we should not build in the Lofoten and the West, both for climate and environmental reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e395	Under the red-green government we have taken a position on this now for two rounds, last in the management plan for the Barents Sea. It's a knowledge-based position we've taken both times, based on the knowledge that exists. We don't want to open the area outside the Lofoten, the West Pole, and Senja for oil drilling or impact investigation. There are important spawning areas for cod, there are particularly vulnerable natural areas, there are other important industries – such as travel, etc. – this may conflict with, and it is very close to land. I have registered that the Left has agreed in that conclusion, and that has been a very important matter for both SV and Left. I also agree with you, because I have also heard today that the Prime Minister has said – as I understand it at the NHO Annual Conference – that we cannot now get much more knowledge before we take a position. We have a lot of knowledge. Now some of the new knowledge is coming. It is also other departments, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Local Affairs, which will come forward next year. There is every reason why the government's policy should continue to stand, i.e. an oil-free Lofoten, the Vesterål and Senja in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e402	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e405	My question is to the Minister for the Environment and is about local democratic challenges and the overrun of local decisions. One example – and unfortunately there are many – is a case from Karmøy about the bypass through Åkrehamn, a project in the Haugalands package. Here was the State Road Administration, the Rogaland County Municipality and not least the municipality of Karmøy some about the Trasévalet, but the county councilman came with reprisals. The Ministry of the Environment, at the Council of State, chose to completely overrun local democracy and let Åkrehamn centre and everyone who lives there – 9,000 people – take the load with 12,000 cars a day. This shows that the red-green talk about the importance of local democracy is just talking and coming in a very strange light. Also, a report by Aplan Viak for KS confirms that contradictions are used very actively and most often in violation of local democracy's view of regulatory matters. Experience shows that out of 140 municipalities as revised or developed municipal plans, 137 met with reprisals. In all these cases, one might conclude that today's counter practice was neither uniform nor in any way negligent. Yes, there is even a growing contradiction in cases where there is no evidence of conflicts with regional or national interests and objectives. Let me be clear about this: the Progress Party does not accept that we have a government council as passive and see that the view of the municipalities in 137 out of 140 cases when it comes to regulation of local democracy becomes commonplace. What will the State Council now do? We've had this discussion before about the number of contradictions. What will the Council of State do to ensure that citizens and local democracies have a real impact on local planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e414	Let me start by saying that we have a living local democracy in Norway. In very many areas, Norway has a rather decentralised decision-making authority in important matters. That's why we have a lot of things to do. And what we call a contradiction. I think it's right that we should have a counterinstitution. The main reason for this is that the sum of many local decisions may often conflict with national interests, or that a local interest may not take into account an overarching national perspective as a climate. An example: a residential area can be planned without adequate collective coverage, but it may be contrary to national targets to reduce climate and gas emissions. Many individual decisions may appear reasonable for building in the beach zone, but the sum of them may mean an additional degradation in the beach zone, which is a broad consensus that we should prevent. I have listened that it should be up to about 90 pst. of decisions appealed against. I've followed it, and it's not right at all. The fact is that the plurality is clear, i.e. about 65 pst. by the cases, not being met with contradictions, but being carried out, and that almost all those who are met with contradictions are resolved locally. It's only about 1 pst. by the spatial and regulatory matters of the municipal plans ending in the Ministry of Environment – 1 pst. – about 99 pst. by locally solved. Nevertheless, the KS report, which is mentioned, and other things, is the basis for one to look at the practice we have with the counterinstitution, and so the government has decided to go through this. We have a counterinstitution where you can come in early with the counterinstitutions you have, and it's a coordination of the counterinstitutions, because there are many different instances that can be counterinformed today. I can understand the frustration when the contradictions are different, and when they might come later than they should. Therefore, we need to ensure better and more co-ordinated practice, and the government is working on a review of it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e423	Oskar J. Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e426	However, the Council of State itself says that national targets must be at risk and that contradictions should only be used where absolutely necessary. The question, then, is whether local democracy is so poorly professionally oriented that one is forced to contradict 137 out of 140 things? It would be high time to review these issues when a report shows that such a large number is met with contradictions. Does the Council of State think that local democracy, so-called populace – our colleagues at local level – is a threat to national goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e431	No, I think local democracy is a great strength for Norway and for national goals, but I also think there is a need for a counterinstitution. A debate here in Stortinget before Christmas also confirmed that there is actually no party that will, when it comes to the play, remove it, but there is a broad consensus that it should be improved. I just have to repeat the fact: the large majority of cases, about 65 pst, are not met with contradictions. Almost all matching items will be resolved locally. You can find a solution, one with countermeasures against the counterpoints, and you can find improvements. However, there is a need to address it. I found the representative another good example, namely that the counterinstitution should be used when it is contrary to national objectives, where necessary. There is evidence, or at least examples, of cases where it is also used in other contexts. Therefore, we need to look at whether we need to clarify the guidelines, change the practice, so that it is used when it is necessary, but not when it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e436	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e440	The state has a lot of laws and rules that govern most of the detail. Only to set up a house, one must stick to the following laws: planning and building law with regulations and guidelines, building part planning and building law, planning part cultural memory law energy law fire and explosion protection law health law work environment law discrimination law housing law craftsmanship law property brokerage law and tax laws law on public procurement contract law environmental law In addition, there are a lot of regulations, and then the public hearing authorities can contradict them. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State can give an example of a law or regulation that could be made simpler and less extensive in favour of it than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e500	There is no doubt that we have many laws and rules in Norway – most civilised societies do. I'm absolutely sure that, just as we've done in the last seven years, we'll continue to improve them. But most of them, perhaps even all, also have a foundation. There are reasons why there are health rules, that there is a law on planning and building, that there are environmental laws on employment, that there is a law on discrimination – and that is how we could maintain it. However, the aim must be that the law must be simple and comprehensible, and that when it is applied for example. In a counter-significant process, it is necessary and well-founded – i.e. when there is actually a breach of national guidelines – and not least that a local authority can meet a cautious and co-ordinated state to a greater extent than it is today. It's precisely improving this which is the goal of the process we've started by improving the practice within the counterinstitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e505	Right is a strong champion of local democracy and private ownership. That is why we want a reform that can limit state authorities' rights of contradiction and give power back to local democracy. Rightly, state authorities do not want their decisions to be reviewed only on the basis of discretion. In the municipality of Flora, we have a good example of a state review, where a private landowner was granted a control plan based on municipal plans. The municipality approved the regulation plan, but state authorities came against it and stopped that plan. The civilombudsman has criticized state authorities for dealing with this matter, and many perceive governmental contradictions that violate both local democracy and private property law. My simple question to the Council of State is, who is best placed to make a final decision on such matters? Is it state bureaucrat or is it the local populace?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e510	I have to say that if the representative from the Right views contradictions as a violation, it is surprising that he and his party support them. I took part in a debate here before Christmas with the representative based on a proposal that Right voted to keep the counterinstitution. That debate and comments also showed that the Right does not accept too many changes there. There was none of the essential concerns that is the basis for contradictions that Right would then remove, not nature protection, not cultural memory, not public transport, not beach area. All of these matters that are most common were the right to stand there. Now, if you have a counterinstitution, and you have a good foundation, it'll sometimes contradict you, and then we're left with one thing, that's the cases where there's not enough grounds, or it's too early or maybe not well enough co-ordinated. I am a strong supporter of doing something and working with it now, but using the notion of ‘trafficking’ about something that a self-published person is following, I don’t expect to do too often.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e515	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e518	Folla River is heavily contaminated as a result of run-off from Folldal Gruver. In practice, the river is dead and has been so for many years. It is estimated that in 2012 alone more than 20 tonnes of copper in the river will flow. The owner of Folldal Gruver is the State of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Folldal Gruver was in operation for 250 years until 1993. All discharge and river cleaning deadlines have been exceeded. The Vara rapporteur in Folldal, a party colleague of the Council of State, is strongly critical of the state's handling of the case and believes it would have been managed differently if the owner had been private. Section Manager Harald Sørby of the Climate and Pollution Directorate tells the Nation on 5 January this year that the matter should have been resolved much earlier. He refers to the fact that there is a condition for water quality that is not met. In reply to written questions to the representative, Mr Gundersen, the Minister for the Environment has explained that new measures will be implemented during 2013, 20 years after the closure of the mines. The question to the Council of State is therefore simple: what is it that has taken 20 years without effective action and the status of the river has improved? This is an environmental disaster of dimensions. What are the consequences for the State that owns that one has not achieved any improvement in the level of emissions and water quality during that period?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e525	There is no doubt that this is a serious matter, and it is easy to agree with what I also saw was said in the Nation on 5 January, that it is a matter that has gone too long, completely revealed. Let me say a little about the history and the problem around it: it is therefore the old mining area in the Folldal Centre, and the Climate and Pollution Directorate gave the Ministry of Food and Trade in 2003 as owner of mine orders under pollution laws to implement measures to limit pollution to the Folla watercourse. The NHD has informed – and I have reason to believe that it is right – that it is very demanding to find satisfactory solutions that reduce the run-off. It is technically complicated, but the attention to cultural memory – the mines in Folldal are an important Norwegian cultural memory – also complicates it, and it has, among other things. made moving mass to a difficult question. A clean technical solution is now being worked out by conducting an bidding competition for the construction of a pilot plant in 2013 so that a decision can be taken as soon as possible as to what measures might be relevant for further implementation. It's a matter that has taken some time. Is that because the state is the owner? I think the main reason it has taken time is that it has complicated our technical that it has complicated us because there is important cultural memory inside the image – that it is the realities in the matter that have our difficulty. But I'm going to be the first to say that there's no doubt that the sum of the time spent on this here – the 20 years of changing governments, the time back to 2003, when the NHD got the decision from Clif – suggests that it's been used too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e534	I think it is very positive that the Council of State acknowledges that this has taken too long. At the same time, I think it seems strange, even if you have technical challenges, that it should take as long as what you see here. There are other mines in Norway that are being cleared. We see that Elkem, for example. in the Nord-Trøndelag, cleaning has been carried out because they were imposed, at a high cost to the polluter, within a reasonably rapid period of time – and with success. I also see that the party colleague of the Council of State who is Vice-President of the Municipality of Folldal, Ståle Støen, says to the Nations that it would never have taken so long to clean up if it was a private owner. The question must then be whether the Council agrees with its party trap in Folldal that there may have been a contributing reason why it has taken so long, that it is precisely the NHD that is the owner, and that it is not a private owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e541	Steel Steel Steel is highly committed and very knowledgeable in this matter. The municipality was also very committed when we had dialogue with them about it. There is no doubt that they are close to this and feel that it goes year after year without finding a solution. It's an incredibly tiring situation for a municipality. I still think – I shouldn't be sloppy, to say it like that – that there has been too much time regardless of the challenge, there is no doubt about it. But the main picture I have is that it's actually technically demanding and has our insecurity about what's a good solution, and that, even though a man is now on the way to an offer competition, there are significant challenges that remain. But also the fact that it is an important cultural memory – remember that Folldal Gruver is an important, well-known cultural memory, which has national significance and is well-known beyond its region – has complicated what else might have our good solutions. So, too long time usage, I'm completely united, but also because it's a really complicated thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e550	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e553	There is no new issue for the Council of State – I have addressed it a few times. It is certainly good that there is agreement that there is a rather dramatic situation around Folldal Gruver. There is also a situation of national interest for many mining sites around. I note that the Council of State is constantly coming back to the fact that this is a complex situation, but we also have examples of mines where solutions have been found through tough deadlines, high costs and the implementation of measures. They're privately owned. So you can't get away with a speculation: the seven years of death in a red-green government have led to it is that it's very speculated whether there's a discrimination because of ownership. I think that's very serious. So we have been over all the deadlines for 20 years, and since 2003 – with seven years of a red-green government – we have achieved nothing but the launch of a pilot plant now after the deadline has been exceeded. I would like to ask that there be a completely different focus on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e561	Let's just say that there's been a bit of a shift in government over the last 20 years, but it doesn't relieve us of a huge responsibility that has been in government for over seven years. As I said, it's been too long. I respect the fact that there is a debate about who is the owner, but the impression I have of the case, which the representative knows and is aware of – I have answered questions here before – is that it is actually difficult because one has to find a good technical solution, but also because Folldal Gruver is an important cultural memory, where there are limits to what one can do, which may not apply to all other mines in Norway. I now have a lot of attention on the matter and will follow it personally forward. We're going to work on finding good solutions, even if I have to say that it says that significant challenges and complications are involved. I think we should say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e570	Oskar J. Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e573	It is a pleasure that the Council of State in a way takes over and almost regrets the time it has taken. For that pollution and the problem that's been addressed here, it's very important. It is mentioned that it is technically complicated, but it is clear that it is equally complicated regardless of who is the owner and is ordered to clean up afterwards. It's kind of about legitimacy. Does not the Council of States see that for the sake of legitimacy, one must go – as he says, he Ivar Aasen – primarily in snowbrows, simply because one must go with a good example? To what extent does the Council of State go in and see if there are similar issues? Because when the state imposes on private individuals, one should at least not be able to say for the sake of legitimacy that one of them requires private clean-up, but when one of them has a responsibility, it takes 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e580	I agree in many ways that since the state is the owner, we have a special responsibility to find a solution. So we have to be humble when it's been too long, and that's what I'm trying to be by admitting it. But I also have to explain the image I have of why it has happened. And then I don't ignore the fact that time usage even with those complications could have been shorter. The most important thing to do now is to make sure that the future use of time is as low as possible, and that, despite the fact that there are still some complications, we do the best we can. The fact that Folldal Gruver is an important cultural memory that sets limits, we can't do anything about it and shouldn't do anything about it, because it's an important part of our cultural heritage. Finding a good clean-up technology solution and how we're supposed to make sure that there's enough pressure in the system, we can do something about it, and I'm going to do that to the best of my ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e587	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e590	I thank the Council of State for being very helpful at least on this issue. It's an important thing. 2012 was a peak year for heavy metals in the river, and only in 2012 it was probably also released approx. Twenty tons of cups. I know of other cases where small owners and small companies have been ordered to clean up, and in some cases I know that the state has gone in and done so and sent the bill to the owners because it just has to be done. That is why I think the issue is interesting. But I also want a solution to the matter, and I see that the Minister for the Environment says he wants it. So my question is really simple – I expect him to put his foot down: This is to be done! So the question is, how long does one now have? When does one have to finish cleaning up and ensure that there is now no more pollution from the mine?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e597	We will work on rapid progress in this matter and give priority to getting it on and getting a satisfactory clean-up solution – to get something done. But we can't come from the fact that there are complications, and that some of them are something we can't do with, that's culture memory. But within what we can do with, easily prioritizing the matter and having a click on it and finding good solutions, we will contribute as best we can, and I will personally follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e602	Then the oral question procedure is changed, and we move on to case no. 2, which is regular Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e614	There will be one change in the questionnaire, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The change was as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e632	This issue is postponed, as the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e639	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘Refers to written question No. 1 037 where, in the response of the Council of State, it appears that ‘the part of the bunker currently used for distance work at Langnes is, according to the Defence Office, established on local initiative and satisfies, inter alia, the following: not health, environmental and safety requirements [[2011-2012]] [[HMS]] On this basis, will the Council of State review the further operation of the Langnes office community?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e653	Let me start by stressing that solutions such as home offices and remote work are important instruments in the Human Resources Policy of the Defence Agency and in the Defence Manager's Family Directive. Such solutions provide room for flexibility in service and a better opportunity for individual employees to provide care for children and families. The defence informs that the Langnes office community at Tromsø airport was established following a local initiative. The former command bunker was arranged as a temporary remote work place for defence personnel residing in the Tromsø region. However, the establishment of the remote workplace is not authorised by the Defence Manager, as normal procedures require. The Defence Manager did not want to approve the premises of Langnes as a remote workplace. The main reason for this is that Langnes is not associated with any military detention, and thus does not have access to the necessary military services. This includes, inter alia: watchkeeping, computer support and clean-up. As an employer, the defence is also responsible for ensuring that all aspects of health, environment and safety at work are maintained at all times. Without the employer being represented at Langnes, this responsibility is not respected. In addition, uniting defence activity into fewer sites is an overall objective of efficient operation and good use of resources. The formal establishment of Langnes as a remote workplace would not comply with this objective. The defence indicates that the previous decision on the termination of Langnes as a long-distance job has been maintained and that the scheme has now been terminated. Satisfactory solutions have also been found for the personnel concerned, including: in the case of home-office schemes. This will address the need for flexible working conditions of personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e664	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say I am quite surprised that on the same question this time I get a completely different answer than I got on my written question. Then the main reason was health, environment and safety. So it's been up in the Defence's main work environment committee on May 31, 2012, and there the Defence Company's executive commented that there are minimal changes that need to be made to satisfy health, environment and safety. So that was the main reason why I got the answer that time. When I address the same question today, I get a completely different reason. I think with all due respect to report it is quite strange that on the same question you get two different answers – it is almost possible to bring out what needs to be done. Safety has been mentioned, but it is not the case that the bunker is to be shut down. There must still be a job, and in the light of it: is it not safe and vigilant when you have jobs there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e671	One thing is that health, environment and safety in isolation can be in place in the building or at the workplace, but here it has been linked to the fact that if this is to be more remote workplaces, there must also be a number of other things, including: for delaying, guarding, securing, etc., as the Defense has – and is required – at its workplaces and installations, so here are two factors. The place of work that may be there, or those that may be there, is connected to the cyber defence and is, to the extent not, a type of office work – as it was. But the most important thing is that the staff who were there have got other solutions, and that good arrangements have been found for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e676	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that they have received other solutions, and there are solutions with which they are very dissatisfied. This has been demonstrated, among others: in the defence forum and in a number of internal documents in the defence that they are very dissatisfied with the arrangement they are now offered, because the scheme is simply that they have been thrown out of the bunker, they have to commute a lot more, and that is contrary to what is shown both in part of the previous answer and also in the main message. I think it's quite strange that you don't use the resources you already have. As I said, the answer I received in the past in terms of health, environment and safety does not hold water. That argument is gone. I would like to know why there is so much difference between the answer I got to the written question and the question I'm raising today, because there's nothing in the reason why the Minister of Defence comes to the answer today, which is given in the written question. The question is the exact same. Here the Minister of Defense must explain the difference to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e687	One thing is that a workplace can physically satisfy the required quality or that the requirements that are present are purely physical. Another thing is if the defence is to have several remote workplaces in one place and establish an office community. This will also require the presence, safety, clean-up and all these things necessary to have an established office community. As I understand it, the situation has not been this way, and – for all things – we are engaged in facilitating remote workplaces, because it is important that personnel should not commute more than is strictly necessary. However, it must also be that where the defence has a working community, they must in fact also make demands – not least for security – in relation to the fact that they are defence personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e696	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care and says as follows: ‘Maternity care director is under review. The Biotechnology Act § 4-4 states: «If the study shows that the foetus may have a disease or developmental abnormality, the woman or the couple shall be provided with information and genetic guidance on the disease or disability in question, as well as on the applicable rights and related relief measures.» Will this be incorporated into the audit work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e705	Thank you for the question. All emerging parents want healthy and well-created children. That's what I think. Abnormal foetal diagnostic findings present women and couples with difficult choices where there are no readily available answers or solutions. Most people therefore need the best possible basis for decision-making. The Biotechnology Act § 4-4 must fulfil this purpose. Maternity guidance is a specialist counsellor for gynecologists published by the Norwegian gynecological association. A revised version is scheduled to be completed during the year. So it is not the Minister of Health and Welfare who determines the content of this guide. I assume that gynecologists relate to the Norwegian law both in conversations with patients and in how they design their material. In the treatment of the Storing Communication A happy event, Stortinget concluded that the Health Directorate is to develop national guidelines for continuous maternity, maternity and maternity care. The current national professional guideline for maternity care shall be revised. The Health Directorate will assess how the Biotechnology Act § 4-4 should be addressed both in this guideline and in other relevant documents. It is here to say that a short time ago I answered a question from the representative, Mr. Hemdal – that was a written question – about the same child care supervisor. She wanted me to go in to work with the supervisor for mandatory counselling for abortion-seeking couples. I respect the kind of emphasis that the representative here made in writing. However, I have to state that the government does not want to change the law on abortion and will therefore not impose requirements for mandatory advice. In my reply, I nevertheless underlined the importance of providing the woman with adequate information and the broadest possible basis for decision making so that she is free and able to make her choice, which can often be difficult. This has been observed in both the Biotechnology Act and the Abortion Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e724	Thank you to the Council of State. The newspaper This autumn has had a series of reports about pregnant women carrying very seriously ill children. The care and little understanding with which these women have been met, I react strongly as a woman, as a mother, and as a politician because it is such a health service I as a health politician do not want to be a representative of. Kjersti Toppe, my colleague in the committee, says that there are weaknesses in maternity care as shown here. Pregnant women with sick fetuses care for each other in the absence of a public offer. Today, the sick child is invisible and it pretends that it does not exist, says one of these mothers who carried out a child who was dead. She did not want to have an autopsy because she thought it was already so disrespectful of this child. Is there such maternity care the Council of State wants these women to be met with?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e733	It was a dry question, because the answer is of course a clear no. I have not read these reports to which the representative refers, but what is reproduced is clearly a concern we do not want. I am concerned that, in general, there is a vulnerable phase in life, especially for the women who carry sick children, and sometimes children who do not come alive to the world. We must have good care for them. I am concerned that we can now also strengthen the work of the so-called palliative care for seriously ill children, both children in their mother's life and children who are at high risk of failing to cope with the first year of life. Women in the situation described by the representative are in a particularly vulnerable and vulnerable group, and I fully agree – as a father, Minister, politician – that there should be concern for each woman and provide help. I cannot do well here because it is a bad offer we have in Norwegian healthcare today, but if there are examples of poor treatment, then of course we have to do everything we can to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e742	I thank you for your answer. I also thank the Council of State for thinking it was a dry question, because these experiences that these women have communicated to me are animal-bought experiences that I hope no one will get further, and I understand that the Council of State also agrees. Prior to the changes in the Biotechnology Act, it was a big message that mentioned – very well – how foetal water diagnostics reveals that a child is sick and what guidance to receive. The Council of State pointed out that a guidance for maternity care is now under review, which has also been the focus of the Health Directorate's Director, Cecilie Daae. He says that there you will consider how to deal with this further. When will this supervisor be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e749	Work is done with this supervisor. I cannot give an exact date, but it is, as the representative says, under work, and I will assume that it does not take too much time before it comes. The representative also knows that the Biotechnology Act will be discussed here and is under evaluation. I believe that what foetal diagnostics and other genetic diagnostics open up is information that can confront more people with difficult choices, but basically I think it's basically the same thing. We must have confidence that the woman can make her choice, we must have confidence that the woman can orient herself and get the advice and guidance she wants. That is why I am concerned that what the law says today, and that our guides and our follow-up can strengthen and make available to women in such a situation, is good guidance, good advice, when she asks for it. It is our duty as a society to have access to women in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e760	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘While there were a number of small cases in the districts before, there are now only a few large ones left in the whole country. How does the Council of State view the possibility of encouraging the establishment of smaller business units and thus contributing to growth in rural areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e769	First, I wish both the President and the representative a good new year. We've had as a tradition last fall, the representative of Bredvold and the Council of State, to meet every Wednesday and talk together here in the hall, and now we're starting again! What's great is that Norway has significant forest resources. Forest resources are renewable, and forestry is an important district industry with a major economic importance at national, regional and local level. In total, 25 000 people are employed in the forest and wood industries, and in 2010 the forest industry in Norway had a turnover of 44 billion. kr. Forests are an important part of the response in the further development of a green economy in Norway with large positive climate and energy contributions. Value creation takes place throughout the chain, from forestry activities through transport to the processing of wood into paper, fuel, construction and other products. The value chain starts in the forest and access to works at a competitive price is the basis for the existence of forest industries in Norway. The growth of timber in Norway is more than twice the highest. Forestgoers active in forestry contribute to the benefits of society far beyond what they themselves achieve in terms of income. Most jobs and the largest values are created further into the chain. Under the red-green government, the financial instruments for forestry have been improved, making it more profitable for forest owners to invest in their own forest production. As the representative of Bredvold refers to, there has been a centralisation of sawmill production in Norway. This is the same development that we see in other industries, which is a result of efficiency requirements and necessary adaptation to changing market conditions. The forest sector is unprotected, and the Norwegian forest industry must be internationally competitive in order to survive. At the same time, there are examples of practice that have been able to create their own niches, and thus have a basis for production on smaller units. Re-establishment of less common practice is likely to depend on the ability of one to provide specific, tailor-made or other additional services that the major users cannot provide. Through a three-tier innovation programme, the government wishes to continue and strengthen the commitment to the use of wood as structural and building materials. The initiative shall allow the use of wood in new ways and contribute to increased wood use, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions and thereby creating increased demand for timber and timber. Supporting the use of wood, which is our most important renewable material, also strengthens the basis for a sustainable industry and also for the creation of new production. Since pasta activities must relate to the market opportunities available, this must be a local assessment. The government has instruments that can stimulate the establishment of smaller cases in districts. Following the notification of agriculture and food, regional rural development programmes have been established and additional funds have been transferred to regional level — rural development funds — to stimulate small-scale economic development based on agricultural resources, includingforests. The instruments for this type of establishment, which are designated as building industries in the Storing Communication, have been delegated to regional authorities in order to make the most of the local resource base.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e786	I thank the Council of State for a complementary and I would like to say a good answer. The reason for this question was to focus more on timber, the forest industry and the products that we can get out of this. Because there is no doubt that we have a great potential when you know that there is only a small part of the total growth that we have and can get, because we can get a larger increase than we have today at, among other things. to clear more in the woods. It is said that the forest is ‘the green gold’. The county from which the Council of State and the undersigned come, Hedmark, is, of course, a large forest area with many jobs and great opportunities for income and jobs, and it is then necessary to facilitate this. Now I'm not asking for more money for forestry or for other things, but that we focus more on this topic than we might have done, because it's an important industry with a great potential for even greater income.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e793	We don't have a direct support scheme that supports local small cases, we don't, and I don't think it would be wise to introduce such direct subsidies for this either. However, what we have – and to which the majority of the Storting grant money – is regional urban development programmes, and the funds that can be used to develop local business use and support new business practices to be established. But then my assessment, as I said in my answer instead, is that there must be some additional dimension in that case, in order to compete with the big, heavy case users – à la Moelven – on a clean shelf, I think it becomes demanding. However, if you have some additional dimension, it may be a typical project that can be considered to be supported through regional development programmes. And then it's my call to the representative Bredvold that – the next time we're going to discuss the budget for agriculture – you don't cut as much as you did this year, because then there would be less money for, among other things. regional development programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e800	In order to create an industry, it is not only the grants from the state, state or municipality that count – providing framework conditions in other ways is also important. In the case of wood products, Norway is in the world elite. We've been delivering a lot of construction materials to Japan in recent years. Japan is a country that demands quality, and there is no doubt that Norway – with the products we can get out of the timber – can deliver quality. These include: what I encourage on this issue, that we look more at the world market, and that we can offer just quality. And by having more timber exported, we can also contribute to the fact that Norway does not grow up, which is important that we do something with it. Timber is a cross-border product – it is e.g. a fact that we buy from Sweden and sell to Sweden – but I think we may have to become even more skilled at selling abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e807	Does the Council of State want a final comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e810	Yes, a brief comment: As I see it, there is a slightly different issue in local case use. One of the reasons we've spent more money on three-based innovation programmes is precisely to develop the industry, making it more competitive into a new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e815	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-09.ana.ud2506e828	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
