ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e80	The representatives Henning Skumsvoll and Line Henriette Hämdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. There is one application for a permit: from the representative of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide on leave from 7 June to 11 June to take part in the meeting of the Norwegian United Nations delegation in New York and the Nordic-Baltic meeting, NB 8 meeting, in Washington. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Afshan Rafiq, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e108	Afshan Rafiq is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e122	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e131	Today we are facing a major and important case for the country and perhaps especially for our northern and our central part of the country. The value creation that will take place with this project will have a major impact on value creation and not least jobs in North Norway and Central Norway. The Committee is aware that there is today a high level of activity in the petroleum sector. This has resulted in the need for rightholders to enter into contractual obligations before the development and operation plan is approved. The Committee stresses that the conclusion of such contracts is at the risk of rightholders and does not bind the authorities to the examination of the development and operation plan. However, the Asta Hansteen extension will open a new petroleum province in the Northern Norwegian Sea. This new field centre is likely to have a major impact on the wider interest of companies in this northern part of the Norwegian Sea. The northern regions are becoming increasingly important for the Norwegian petroleum industry. It is very positive that both logistics and operations will take place from North Norway. Petroleum industry has become an important growth impulse for our northern regions. Asta Hansteen, Polarled and Kristin gas export projects will further strengthen the positive development in North Norway and Middle Norway. In the petroleum industry in the north, there has been a very good development in Helgeland, Harstad and Hammerfest. It's created a great commitment. It was also a very important decision by BP and Statoil to add their subsea stores to Lake Sandness. In the treatment of St.prp. No 60 for 2006-2007 on the StatoilHydro merger was mentioned by the Committee in Innst. S. No 243 for 2006-2007 that the merged company would have a very large market share on the Norwegian base. In the opinion of the Committee, strict local value creation requirements are required for the approval of future development plans. It is very gratifying that Statoil has followed up this with, among other things. the establishment of Drift Nord. Furthermore, we see that Statoil has a heavy search environment in its office in Harstad. The Committee also refers to the major national and regional employment effects that will take place, according to the impact assessment. The Committee would point out that the operational organisation will be added to Harstad, helicopter transport will take place from Brønnøysund and the supply base will be located in Lake Sandness. The Committee shares the Ministry's assessment that this could contribute to the strengthening of the petroleum-oriented industry on the Helgeland coast. The three Nordic counties of the Workers' Party decided in their joint county board meeting in Troms on 3 and 4 February 2013 to work for the establishment of the operating organisation of Aasta Hansteen in Harstad. In the same decision, the Labour Party Act in North Norway said: ‘An advanced operational organisation must be set up in Helgeland, which is entrusted with expanded tasks in relation to procurement and technical services. For the petroleum-oriented industry in the Helgeland region, the proximity to the base functions must be given the same meaning as proximity to the operating organisation.» Through the answers referred to in the Annexes in the Proposition of, inter alia, The municipality of Nordland and the municipality of Alstahaug do not provide for the establishment of sub-contractors related to maintenance and modification close to the supply bases. The reason for this is that the license requires management and 70 pst. study and design activities/engineering must be established less than 45 minutes from the local operating office in Harstad. If this practice is also applied to all future developments, Statoil will strongly centralise, among other things. the engineering related to Drift Nord. Here a look at the comments made by the Committee during the examination of the merger, which created the Statoil you see today, which referred to earlier. In the further work, it is important to facilitate continued growth and development in our northern regions, as a result of the petroleum industry. This does not mean that companies and suppliers should establish themselves in all locations and in all municipalities. Greater equality between base cities and operational cities will make the whole petroleum industry significantly more dynamic. The choice of places of establishment will then be more the result of not least competence, innovation and commercial competitiveness. It's important to think in the long term, and it gives predictability, not least in the investigation of new areas. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e164	Today I have put on a red tie. It's not an expression of a political ham change, but it's actually an expression of a little celebration. The project we are adopting today is of great importance. Of course, it is of great importance to the country, but it is also of great importance to North Norway. This is the next step in the Northern Region bet. This is the real North Region bet, which fortunately a total big one says yes to today. It is important, because it will create ring-effects: workplaces, opportunities, optimism and growth in the Nordic region. As was said by the case rapporteur, it is Harstad who, with Drift Nord, gets the operating organisation, Brønnøysund and Sandnessjøen, but there are also many others in the northern part of the country who are going to benefit from it. I think we should be a little liberal today and glad that we are actually making this important decision on Asta Hansteen. Unfortunately, I have to pour a bit of paint in my request: this case has not had the foreseeable treatment that it should have had. Unfortunately, we are dealing with this matter a little late. The reason for this is that we're dealing with what I see as a little bit of caution on the part of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. When, on the basis of a relatively poorly documented e-mail – which arrives 24 hours before the original time of delivery – from an environmental organisation that is present chooses to postpone the matter, with the signals it gave, there is every reason to be critical. It is not a normal procedure, and it should not be a normal procedure in Stortinget that one person from one environmental organisation makes some fairly horrific claims. There are also claims of how absolutely everything has been refuted. And when one first comes to the ground: this is the next logical and reasonable step in the North Region bet, but it's not more than two days since we got a rather discouraging news about the maybe next bet in the north areas, which is about the Johan Castberg field, which unfortunately now seems to be exposed. The reason for this is because we have a government that, by sending signals of increased taxation on Norwegian base, actually violates what has been the fundamental principle of Norwegian petroleum policy, i.e. predictability. The predictability of changing governments over several decades now rockes the red-green government. I think that's very sad, and that's something that puts the Northern Region bet in jeopardy, and that's why we might not get to the development that you'd like. I just want to point a warning index finger at it. At least we will do what we can after the elections, and with a possible new bourgeois government, to continue what is the fundamental principle of Norwegian petroleum policy, namely predictability. Yes, we can operate with high taxes, but we can only do that for one reason: we are predictable in the way we operate. It's a total accumulation that's going to adopt Aasta Hansteen today, and it's very great – also those who, especially from this party called SV, spend all their time, on in and out breathing, talking down the petroleum industry and talking down the amazing values we have as a result of Norwegian oil and gas. They're also going to vote in favour. That's what I'm very pleased about, and so far there's also a great distance between words and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e181	The water won't ring until the stone is thrown. Asta Hansteen is such a stone, which, together with the development of Polarled development project and Kristin gas export project, forms the starting point for a completely new bet and activity in the north, with potentially significant ring-effects for Norway in general, and for the community in the north and along the Helgeland coast in particular. The production of oil has fallen significantly since the peak year almost ten years ago, and much of this volume has been replaced by gas. If we are to maintain our gas exports to Europe and help gas remain an environmentally friendly and forward-looking bridge to the low-carbon society, even after 2020, we need to find and develop more deposits. Asta Hansteen will be a beginning of this, and Polarled and Kristin will facilitate more gas finds in the area to find the way to the market. We are now making significant infrastructure investments, and we must hope that this will provide the basis for the development of several gas fields in the north. All fields developed in Norway are vulnerable to fluctuations in gas prices. That also applies to this. If the gas price falls by 33 pst, the project will have a negative present value of about 6,5 billion. 2012-krona. At the same time, we see that product prices are not the only ones that make projects on the base vulnerable. A series of significant exceedances in the field development on Norwegian pedestal in recent years clearly shows the need for good project management and cost control. The costs of the exceedances are paid as known mainly by the Community. The activity around the Asta Hansteen field will help create new jobs in the region. The operating organisation is added to Harstad, the helicopter transport will take place from Brønnøysund, and the supply base will be located in Lake Sandness. This will undoubtedly be positive for the industry on the Helgeland coast. On the right, it is noted that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has agreed that the rightholders have incurred contractual obligations of approx. 20 B.C.E. kr before Stortinget has approved the plan for the expansion and operation of Aasta Hansteen. The cost of cancellation is 1.3 billion. kr. We believe that cancellation costs of this size should only occur exceptionally, because large cancellation costs can help to raise doubts about the independence of the Stortinge, as the State must bear most of the bill if the project is not approved by Stortinge. Energy markets in the world are changing dramatically. The extraction of large shale gas and shale oil fields in the United States has contributed to changing trade in oil and gas in the global market and to reducing the prices of coal exported from the United States. In the United Kingdom, significant shale gas deposits have recently been discovered which, if extracted, can help make the United Kingdom self-sufficient in gas for decades. It can directly affect Norwegian gas exports in general and the Worm Lange in particular. At the same time, Europe's large-scale commitment to renewable energy continues and the development of the allowance market after 2020 is now under discussion in the EU. In the north, new opportunities for LNG exports are opening up as the ice recedes and the transport routes are changing eastwards. Gas is a climate-friendly alternative to coal, and Norway must work actively to ensure that the gas passes coal in our main markets. We do this best through clear signals of predictability and long-termity in Norwegian gas supplies, and through the most cost-effective gas infrastructure from Norwegian base to our main markets. In total, many factors affect Norway’s position as a gas nation in both a positive and a negative direction. Therefore, the right-wing opinion is that it is time to provide a gas message that gives Stortinget the opportunity to discuss how Norway should position itself as an energy and gas nation in the coming years. We proposed a gas message when the Stortinget treated the petroleum message, but unfortunately was voted down by the government parties. A gas message has not become less topical since then.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e202	It is a unanimous committee to approve the plan for the development and operation of Asta Hansteen and Polarled. The rapporteur has well informed about the matter and the local implications of the project. There has been some discussion and uncertainty, including: has been asked about the economy of the Aasta Hansteen expansion. As a result, the Committee on Energy and the Environment postponed its decision for one week, and the representative Amundsen criticises this. I find that completely pointless: that we lowered the progress of the Stortingen decision and took a week extra to make sure that it was quality over the delivery of such a large project, should just be lacking. From the point of view of the SV, it is important to stress what is also stated in the comments of the Committee, that the Department assumes that the expansion will be profitable even if Asta Hansteen would have to bear the costs of Polarled alone, i.e. without any fields other than Asta Hansteen being connected to the gas pipeline. It is important that the Storting is completely free and does not in the future meet the costs of Polarled as an argument for opening up other fields. The Party of Advances, the Right and the Christian People's Party points to the possibility of extending the pipeline in order to transport gas from the Barents Sea. It is important to say that there is a fact that is not at the root of the decision today. Whether gas from the Barents Sea is to be transported in pipes or landings is not determined. For the SV, there will be environmental and climate considerations, and then the question of the local ring-effects, which will determine it. The representative Astrup indicated that the evolution of the gas market is uncertain. The price of gas is influenced partly by the dumping of coal on the European market, a large increase in renewable energy in Europe, the US is doing a great deal on the energy savings side and their increased production of shale gas. Climate considerations strongly reduce the use of fossil energy. Again, it suggests that we must pursue a policy that is not based on increased demand for oil or gas. This, as well as taking into account the mainland industry, was the basis for the government’s adjustment of the oil tax regime. The sum of this made Statoil decide to postpone the plans for the Johan Castberg field, and it just shows the difficulty of getting the economy in so-called marginal fields. I am recording the opposition's criticism that contracts have been signed for large amounts before this PUD has arrived at Stortinget. Although the Storting is free to say no to the expansion, it is clear that such a negative will lead to large contract costs that are largely covered by Norwegian taxpayers. On the other hand, this is an industry in which high costs are involved, even if one goes slower and waits for contracts to be concluded until the Storting has said its own. The Right Party and the Advance Party are, of course, very concerned that the pace of the petroleum industry should be high, so I regard the regret of pre-contractual contracts to a large extent as crocodile tears. However, it is important to point out – as the Committee does – that the conclusion of contracts must be the exception in advance. That means PUDs have to get to Stortinget at an earlier time. Thus, unlike the Right and Advance Party, SV believes that it is important to achieve a policy in which we adjust the pace of investment in the oil and gas sector, both for the Norwegian mainland economy and for the climate. In this case, we note that in the region there are great expectations for the construction of Aasta Hansteen, and that there is great satisfaction with the project. SV will, as I said, have a lower pace, and we are particularly concerned about protecting the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. But we don't say no to all the expansions, and this is one example of a expansion that we support. We will now be allowed to congratulate Nordland on the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e228	I also put on a red tie today, but it was not as conscious of me as of Amundsen's celebration. But we can also help from the Christian People's Party to send congratulations to North Norway and to the project we are about to adopt today. My post today relates to the fact that this has been a special case. It has been a short treatment period. In the course of the work on the matter within the Committee, there have also been changes in the framework conditions. That is why I need – like the representative of Egeland – to point out a real inconsistency in the speeches by the representative of Amundsen, because he himself is critical of the changes that came into the revised budget. That we as the committee should not then be able to take an extra round and use a few weeks, when it has nothing to say for the project – ask thorough questions and get good answers – then I wonder what the committee is really going to do. So I'm grateful that the committee chose to go a little extra round to make sure that the changed cost picture – and we've got a big criticism that someone is going to implement this – will not affect the total of the project. We asked questions about profitability. There was uncertainty about gas prices, and one had, to a large extent, different estimates — in the perspective report, a well 193 øre per standard cubic metre of gas was used, while one in the work here has seen that Statoil and the Ministry of Oil and Energy operated with about 193 øre per standard cubic metre of gas. 200 cents. Gas prices are difficult to estimate. In my studies I have received many different estimates back. But that's why we're basing the answers we've received from the department, and we trust the assessments that have been made there. The same applies to changes in the tax system. We thought it was important to ask questions about new fields that, if appropriate — or hopefully — should be linked to this project, and get confirmation from the ministry. This is the third PUD we're dealing with now in ours. I need to link some comments to Storting's goal of electrification. In the Asta Hansteen project – and to the extent of the surrounding expansions that will come – it was a question of now or never for electrification. That's why we think it should have been more thoroughly evaluated, and it should have been more thoroughly investigated. We're assuming there's going to be new fields in the area. This means that it is particularly important that one can now look at the possibility in a more – I would say – thorough way, so that when the new fields come, one could have had the possibility of electrification there as well. Now that possibility is not present. That's why the Christian People's Party thinks it's a paradox that in Polarled's profitability calculation, we're using other expansions around Asta Hansteen, and we're not choosing to make the same assessments of electrification. It is obvious that if you get electrification on Asta Hansteen or other similar projects, for example: The zira height could be used on the other platforms and field expansions. That is why we believe that one should be able to see more in that direction, even when it concerns electrification in this case. I find that this expansion – just Aasta Hansteen – gives approx. 218 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. It goes in the wrong direction. Like the representative of Astrup, I would like to refer to our remarks on pre-investment. Reasons are given that there is a high level of activity. Therefore, I would like to stress – also from the Christian People's Party – that the high level of activity and the relatively large cost-benefits we have seen in various projects require strict control. It also requires one from the Ministry to follow up the projects and ensure that there is not a high level of cost. It also means that in these three projects – the PUDs – we have had, there are pre-investments in this case of approx. 20 B.C.E. kr. We had the Ivar Aasen field, which was approx. 8 B.C.E. NOK, and we had the Gina Krog field on approx. 16 B.C.E. kr – a total of approx. 43 B.C.E. pre-investment kr. We also had a total of approx. 4.3 B.C.E. kr i exposure, including cancellation costs. That is a huge sum, and that is why I am pleased that we are clear that this should be the exception. It's not supposed to be the main rule. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe it is an important signal that we in Stortinget are clear on this – I registered that the representative from SV was too – and that a majority here believes that this should be the exception and not the general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e246	A lot has already been said, but since we're the only party on the Stortinget that's going to vote against expansion, I'm going to add a few words to the background for it. I'll have to disappoint an enthusiastic Amundsen. The left believes that Norwegian oil and gas policy must be based on the success of our climate and energy policies. If Europe succeeds in meeting its targets, gas will be fast for animals compared to renewable energy, and demand and gas prices will continue to decline – as many have experienced. Many fields will continue to be profitable, but new fields – especially smaller and marginal ones – will, with the cost growth we have seen in the market and with slightly lower gas prices, continue to be unprofitable. This would not have been so problematic if it had been the case that the private companies had taken the risk alone. But since the state takes between 80 and 90 pst. As decision-makers, we must have good numbers to deal with. I believe we do not have that in this case. We should have that when dealing with such matters. The left considers that there is significant uncertainty about key elements of the calculation. This can be done, for example. not demonstrating the sensitivity of the project to changes in the gas price. This is an investment of over 50 billion. kr, where the country through the tax system and ownership will pay for about 80 pst. of the costs. When we know at the same time that there is a marginal expansion, there is a central information for the Storting which risk is actually associated with the future gas price. Another point that has not been sufficiently investigated is questions related to the electrification of the installation – which has also been discussed by several. The oil sector accounts for 25 pst. of our national emissions. The size has reached a climate settlement that is difficult to see to be achieved if one is to stay out of the entire sector. Emissions from the Aasta Hansteen deployment will only lead to an increase in annual emissions of 218 000 tonnes of CO2. In addition, potential emissions from future expansions in the area will not receive any electrification solutions if the possibility is not currently used. Finally, the Government’s practice of consent and early contractual dispensations deprives the Stortinget of the possibility of a substantive examination of the case and provides guidance for the choice of concepts and national valuation. It is problematic, but this is not the only case where there have been exemptions from normal proceedings. Only recently can I mention Edvard Grieg, where the development and operation plan was delivered on the same day as the consultation deadline for the impact assessment had expired, Martin Linge, where PUD was delivered before the consultation deadline for the impact assessment had expired, Ivar Aasen, where contractual obligations had been entered into before the landfill, and Gina Krog, where contractual obligations had also been entered into. If it is the case that the Council of State considers that the legislation is inappropriate for his way of operating oil policy, he must almost come to the Grand Duchy and ask for a change in the law. But we cannot allow the exception to become the rule in a sector as important as the petroleum sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e262	I have for my own part just plain blue tie. But there's good reason to celebrate. It is a very important project that I assume the Storting will now give its support to. It opens a new gas province in the northern part of the Norwegian Sea. Significant infrastructure is established to enable ‘incentive’ additional search activity. We already have good experience of this, and not least we can increase capacity through mature parts of the Norwegian Sea and the Haltenbank, expand capacity on Nyhamna and, in our opinion, a much more robust and forward-looking infrastructure. This will create a very large number of jobs, and it will also provide great opportunities for further ring-fences and activity growth in the future. Finally, this will be an important contribution to ensuring Europe's future-oriented and environmentally friendly energy supply. Norwegian gas today accounts for about 20 pst. of Europe's gas consumption. Norway shall be a stable and predictable supplier. It is my hope that Europe will be able to do the same thing as the United States, namely significantly reduce its CO2 emissions by phasing out coal and burning more Norwegian gas. So back to Asta Hansteen. Asta Hansteen was a woman who was a pioneer in the work of women's rights in Norway. That alone is probably enough that the left should have gone for this expansion. The Polarled name plays on the fact that the pipeline crosses the Polar Circle, and is going to be Norway's northernmost gas pipeline. The field was identified in 1997. The depth of the sea is about 1 300 meters. It is not previously built out fields on such deep water on Norwegian continental shelf. The field is planned to be expanded with a Saving Device. It's going to be the world's largest Spar device, and it's going to be the first one in Norway. The Hansteen field and the Polarled installations involve investment in new infrastructure that opens up for a region in the northern part of the Norwegian Sea. The planned start of production for the field is 2017 and the expected production period is nine years. Total investment in Hansteen alone is about 30 billion. kr. The operating organisation will be located at Harstad, which strengthens an already well-developed operating environment there. Helicopter transport of personnel will take place from Brønnøysund and the supply base will be located to Lake Sandness. The development will contribute to strengthening the petroleum-oriented industry on the Helgeland coast to positive ring-effects locally and regionally. The magnitude of the effects achieved over time — by the Hansteen field in particular and by other fields in general — depends not least on the ability to exploit the opportunities that are now opening up both regionally and locally. However, I am very optimistic on behalf of the continent and meet with great optimism and much progress towards that. I feel confident that our northernmost part of the country will know to take advantage of these possibilities in the same way that we have seen in the past further south. Petroleum activities have brought with them a lot of optimism northwards. We're going to take care of it and develop it further. For those of us who are concerned about taking the whole country into use, this is unparalleled news. The gas from the Hansteen field will be transported through Polarled to Nyhamna. Investments in the Polar Joint Installations include the pipeline, modifications and extensions of the gas processing plant to Nyhamna and Kristin gas exports. The total investment is about 24 billion. kr. The planned start-up is 4th quarter 2016. Behind them is an investor group consisting of rightholders in Hansteen, Linnorm and Zidane and fields associated with Åsgard transport. Gasco has been involved in the planning and coordination of the project. The cooperation of actors and the coordination of authorities have resulted in a good area solution. I would like to point out that this has been good craftsmanship from many parties involved, and this has made it possible to raise this significant investment in crucial infrastructure. The line is about 500 km long and is to be laid at depths of up to 1300 metres. With a diameter of 36 inches, Polarled will be the largest pipeline in the world that has been put on so deep water. The size makes it possible to transport more than what is needed to the field and the findings that have been involved in the project. This will facilitate both economies of scale and new findings from new parts of the base. The extensions to Nyhamna will take place in cooperation with the rightholders of the Worm Lang. They will simultaneously install a compression system to increase the extraction from the field. It will provide additional synergies and significant savings. I am very pleased with the opening-up of the committee and for a decision of almost total magnificence today on the development and operation of Aasta Hansteen. It underlines the consistency and predictability of Norwegian petroleum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e300	It is good to record that we can all enjoy today, regardless of the tie colour. We can be liberal there. The Council of State mentioned in its submission the predictability of Norwegian petroleum policy. It's fundamentally important. Then we now record that the next big bet in the north, Johan Castberg, seems to be being exposed, precisely because the government is changing the fundamental rules that have underpinned Norwegian petroleum policy – that is to say, that it is tightening taxes, and therefore doing something about predictability. Is the Council of State in agreement with Chief Economist Roger Bjørnstad said to E24, namely that Statoil's postponement of Johan Castberg shows what was the purpose of the government's tax change?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e310	No, by no means. Johan Castberg – which is not what we are discussing today – is a very important project for Norway, which is a very important project for North Norway. I also feel that it is a very important project for the license to Statoil. It's a big oil find in the Barents Sea. I feel confident that, after completing the project, we will have both a realization and a landing solution at Veidnes in Finnmark, as foreseen. It is a major project, and it is not uncommon for operators to need to review and quality assurance of this type of project before making a final investment decision. I would also like to stress that the predictability and stability of the Norwegian petroleum system are no reason to question. However, this does not mean that changes and adjustments are never made. It's happened before, I think it'll happen again, as time goes by to realize the full value creation potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e319	As the Council of State hears, there is a great deal of joy in getting this case in place — albeit in overtime. This giant project is very important for the country, for Middle Norway, and also for the climate, because it could replace coal as an energy bearer. But this big, important project still has a weakness. It is the energy supply – i.e. the power supply – to Nyhamna, which is the weak link. Now when we also know that the completion of the Ørskog-Fardal line is only in 2016, and we know that there have been several outcomes in Nyhamna due to the weakness in a line, N-0, to Nyhamna, the question is: Will the Council of State go in and make sure that there are no further delays on this line? Or will he go in and change the concession terms of a gas power plant to billions of dollars, which is also clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e328	I think it's important to clean up what's what. Firstly, we have sent a letter to Stortinget explaining the progress plan for Ørskog-Sogndal. It will be completed in 2016, and I have no information to suggest that it will not be possible. As the representative is sure to be aware, the Ministry of the Environment has recently concluded the last part of the administrative process, and all official permits are now available. There is also a question about the power supply to Nyhamna. It is a commercial relationship for which the operator and the licence also have to take responsibility. Statnett has offered several times to build wires so that you can get an N-1 solution for Nyhamna. It has not been the intention of the operator to invest in it. Such a solution must result from commercial negotiations between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e337	It seems right to remind the President that according to Storting's Rules of Procedure it is such that both statements and questions should relate to the matter under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e340	Then I will not ask questions about Johan Castberg, but neither would I. On the other hand, I mentioned in my speech that the Asta Hansteen field as a gas field is an important part of the long-term gas supply that Norway will contribute to the European market. I also mentioned that the Asta Hansteen field and other new gas fields are going to be in an energy market that is changing. It has always been changing, but we now see that there are many factors that play in it – there are more and stronger factors that play into that market now than just a few years ago. In the past, the Right has proposed that we should therefore receive a gas report for treatment in Stortinget. Is there anything the Council of State might consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e349	I have experienced in the past that the purpose of a gas notification has been linked to the industrial use of gas in Norway rather than a senario thought and analysis of what may be possible from market prospects for gas in Europe and elsewhere. What I can assure the representative, however, is that the department keeps an eye on and assesses developments both in the energy market in general and in the gas market in particular – in Europe and elsewhere. I share the representative's view that the energy markets are changing. I want to add that some of these changes are market-based – based on new technologies and new resources that become available. Others are based on policy choices, not least with regard to the policies pursued by the European Union. It will be in Norway’s interest as well as in the interest of the climate to work hard to give Norwegian gas a greater place in European energy supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e356	The next replicant is the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. The representative Robstad has asked for two lines, and it seems to be room for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e359	My question is about electrification. But first I can say that for the Christian People's Party it has been important that in this case there is talk of an extension in terms of gas – and we see a significant difference in that, also in a climate perspective. As I was in my post, we think it is a paradox that one in the profitability calculations and in the financing of Polarled and the pipeline can think of areas, while in the case of electrification, only Asta Hansteen or only the individual project is included in the calculations and cost analysis. This is not a unique project in that sense, but we want to think that in the case of new fields, and especially when it comes to areas, we want to try to get them electrified. It is agreed by the Stortinget and has clear leadership for, in the climate agreement. My question is whether the Council of State agrees. Will he think more in that direction in future projects, so that one can avoid that when the day comes, one has not thoroughly investigated enough analysis of electrification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e368	Let me just comment on the assumptions for the question that was asked. It is that the operator has calculated the cost of action for electrification, as required by the Stortinget and the Government at all times. There is a cost of action of DKK 1 966 per tonne of CO2 over a period of 15 years. Account has also been taken of the fact that new findings will be phased into the device. In other words, a longer operating period than the nine years now on the table has been foreseen and new findings have been added to the calculation basis. However, the figures show that one will have a cost of action that is far higher than that needed to defend the electrification of the Asta Hansteen project. Here things are done after the book – and I guess so. It's like, if you never want to do that much, you can't turn the reality upside down. In this case it is not reasonable to electrify the field development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e381	The President has suggested that the representative, Ropstad, could have two lines. Now it turns out that the Left Anyway...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e384	Let him have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e390	Let him have it, yes. Then the representative, Ropstad, will have the floor for his second line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e393	Thank you, President, and thank you, Left. It's good to hear that the Council of State is concerned about thinking in that direction. As far as I could see from the calculations, it was only extended to 15 years. I received a response from the Council of State, while the PUD stood for 25 years – as far as I could see. But anyway, my wish is that you can electrify more areas. Although the president was clear that questions should be asked about this matter, I am concerned that future developments can actually be electrified. Then I must stress that we from the Christian People's Party are not in order for everything to be electrified. But at least we want facts on the table for thorough assessments, so that when you deal with the matter in Stortinget, you can make the right decisions. Will the Council of State ensure that other relevant concepts that open up electrification are also taken into account in the impact assessment that comes to Kastrup, no, Castberg As far as one has seen now, Statoil has scraped that piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e404	It is good that the Storting does not decide to expand Kastrup [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e407	The frameworks for electrification have been put in place both through the notification of petroleum and not least through the climate agreement. There is a Christian People's Party – as far as I understand – that has joined up to what should be the framework for whether or not fields should be electrified. In this case, some assumptions must be met, e.g.: there is enough electricity available on land at the point of intervention and that it will pay off. There is also an obligation for the ministry and operators to work out and assess the electrification of the solutions that are being considered. Of course it has to be. I know here's an underlying question if you want to go beyond what you've agreed on, and what the Storting has decided. I have no plans to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e414	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e419	In a short time, I'm done with my 16 years as a growth representative, and nothing is better than using one of the last posts in Stortinget to talk about something that gives value creation and employment in the north. Indeed, value creation and jobs are essential in order to have something to benefit from in a welfare society. The Asta Hansteen field was identified in 1997, and production is expected to start in 2017. This clearly demonstrates the thoroughness of both the companies and the authorities before the decisions are taken. This also shows how important it is to think about such matters in the long term, and therefore how important it is to provide predictability with regard to the investigation of new areas. I am pleased that the red-green government has as a clear goal that the exploration activity for oil and gas should be maintained, and that the oil industry must have access to interesting exploration areas. This is what has caused so much excitement in the petroleum sector both in the north and in the south during this government. With today's treatment, large and long-lasting ring-effects will be created in the north. The operational organisation added to Harstad, the helicopter transport from Brønnøysund and the location of the supply base in Lake Sandness will create important activities across a large northern area. I am pleased that the Committee is gathered on the main features of the present position and that we can therefore follow the necessary timetable. I record that the Left Party – its habit of belief – is opposed to such nutritional development in the north. This has almost become a trademark of the Left. In this connection, let me also express a little surprise at a look-up in the Harstad Journal last Saturday. Here the representative Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party expresses disappointment at the other parties in the Committee, because they would have a few more days to ensure quality and deal with the matter in the Committee. In the newspaper post it could be seen that it was the representative Amundsen and the Progress Party who got this case ready for processing to Stortinget today. I think such emphasis on self-expression is unfortunate, especially when it is directly wrong, and when the committee agrees on the matter, in line with the government's view. We should've been saved for this kind of weird play.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e434	A Joint Committee agrees to approve the plan for the development and operation of the Aasta Hansteen field and to authorise the installation and operation of the Polarled development project and the installation and operation of the Kristin gas export project in accordance with the plans in place. The development of Asta Hansteen and Polarled installations involves investments in new infrastructure that will open up to a new gas region in the northern part of the Norwegian Sea, and will be an important step further north. Polarled, the Asta Hansteen field, the extension of the gas project facility at Nyhamna and Kristin gas exports represent an investment of about 77 billion. kr and is therefore a large and important project. It is very gratifying when the media can tell that local companies are in line to participate in this giant expansion, and there is good reason to give homage to Navitas Network – the organisation for companies and operators in the oil and energy industries – who coordinate local businesses so that cooperation makes them big enough to participate in the projects we are talking about here. Short trip, good competence is a reality based on good cooperation, and that is very good. But is everything very well with regard to this otherwise so important expansion? No, unfortunately it's not like that. The gas processing plant at Nyhamna is currently being operated with so-called N-0 security of supply, i.e. there may be an error in the system enough to cause the system to lose the power and go into black. This is simply not good enough and is part of it. Then it's strange that one has invested billions in a gas power plant that's standing there without making any use of it at all. This is inconceivable, and therefore the Progress Party has arranged for it to be used as a reserve until the necessary options are in place. Furthermore, there have been expectations of the establishment of a regional gas outlet at Nyhamna since 2004, when the Worm Lange concession was treated. Local and regional actors and cooperation organisations have worked hard to establish this regional gas take-off. During the conversion and revision work to be done at Nyhamna, it is possible to put this in place within a reasonable economic framework, as opposed to doing this type of work in a so-called hot plant in operation. I would also like to ask where the Labour Party stands in this matter, particularly in the light of the following decisions at the annual meeting of 17-18 of Mr Møre and Mr Romsdal. March following was confirmed: ‘Møre and Romsdal Arbeiderpartie require, in the context of an extension concession in Nyhamna, that the regional gas take-off be completed.’; Also from LO, it's quiet, and the leader of the Labour Party, we haven't heard from anything else. In the Commune, political leadership has done what they can do, but unfortunately, we haven't had enough of it. The Labour Party is failing the region of Rome again, and that is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e450	This is a historic day. In the Workers' Party, we use the slogan «We take Norway on», and I believe that is absolutely what we do in this matter. Today there's a strong woman in the front. The gas field we are dealing with today is named after a female art painter – Asta Hansteen – who had great success and became a striking social debater, as the Council of State said instead. Today's edition of Asta Hansteen is a wooden head found, attached to Luva, Haklang and Snefrid South. She is located at 1,300 metres deep, and the rich gas she has collected is now to be shipped 418 km in pipes, all the way to Nyhamna at Aukra. The expansion of Nyhamna will take place in cooperation with the rightholders of the Worm Lange, and in the context of the extensions to Nyhamna, the Worm Lange will install a compression plant to increase the extraction from the field. The total investment for the development of the Asta Hansteen field has been estimated at a total of 30.1 billion. kr, and total investments in the Polarled development project and the Polarled installations have been estimated at a total of 24,1 billion. kr. That's big sums we're talking about. Investments will contribute to enormous benefits and benefits to the gas market and to the citizens of society. More and Romesdal are considered to be the most vulnerable part of Middle Norway in view of the power situation. With the expansion of Nyhamna, the power consumption will increase. This means that the Ørskog-Sogndal power line will be very important to put in place. The working party expects operators to carry out an investigation into the future power supply situation in Nyhamna and that this will be done in consultation with Statnet by 1 July 2014. Because with this increase in consumption, any result of the pipelines will have even greater consequences than it would have today. In this context, there has also been a discussion as to whether it may affect the possibility of a future connection of an export tube for a transfer to the French Republic. We assume that the Polarled project will not prevent the connection of a future gas take-off at Nyhamna. This development will contribute to increased employment, not only in More and Romesdal, but also throughout the Helgeland coast. In More and Romesdal, there has been great eagerness to reach a decision on the landing of the Aasta Hansteen gas at Nyhamna, and the local involvement has been incredibly great. The rapporteur in Aukra, in cooperation with the county council, has been standing for a long time in several other municipalities in nearby areas, the NHO and the LO, because we know that it is important to establish good cooperation forums at all stages of such projects. We believe that this is a happy day, and we wish to welcome the gas from this rich lady. I believe that this will have good ring-effects locally, regionally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e461	This case, which consists of three clear interconnections, will open up a new gas region in the northern part of the Norwegian Sea and in the long term could provide a further gas pipeline link to the Barents Sea. Overall, the projects constitute investment frameworks of more than 54 billion. 2012 crowns with significant direct and indirect employment effects for our business – not only in the deployment phase, but also in the operational phase. The Ministry points out that the projects are socio-economically viable and robust, based on the plans and estimates of the operators. Vulnerability lies primarily in the future gas price. But at the same time, the projects are technically demanding. The Polarled projects involve the laying of pipelines down to a depth of up to 1300 metres. With a diameter of 36 inches this will be the largest gas pipeline in the world on so deep water. The diameter of 36 inches – i.e. over 90 cm – is considerably oversized in order to take gas from new fields and new findings, including any new findings in the Barents Sea. New ports at Aukra are now becoming the new major gas node in Norway, with the significant ring-effects this could have for the whole of the North-West. A little story: When the Storting in 2004 chose to land the gas from the Worm Lange field, an important reason was that this could provide the basis for industrial use of the gas in the region. It was therefore clearly expressed from Stortinget – from all parties in the Stortinget, with the exception of the Socialist Left Party – that regional gas distribution had to be facilitated, both as an energy source and as a raw material. It must be emphasised, however, that this was not part of the concession terms of the Worm Lange, but the record of the debate clearly shows the expectations of the Stortinget. A note has been submitted to the right with the Progress Party stressing this clear ambition that gas disembarkation will continue to provide a basis for future regional use of the gas. I quote from the note: ‘... it is assumed that the Polarled project, including its modifications at Nyhamna, is being carried out without limiting the possibility of connecting to the established regional gas connection points at Nyhamna. These members pointed out that the Stortinget considered it appropriate to facilitate the regional distribution of the gas at the time of the treatment of the Ormen-Lange concession in 2004.’» I record that the government parties would not join our remarks on facilitating such a regional gas take-off. In particular, it is disappointing that the Workers' Party, which has a unanimous County Annual Meeting in More and Romesdal on such a regional gas take-off, was not willing to submit this as a joint comment by the Committee. Nevertheless, there is reason to rejoice over this milestone when these projects are adopted today in the Storting – possibly against the two votes of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e481	For the sake of order: only the two representatives of the Left have notified that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e484	I'm not going to say it's a trifle, but it's definitely a milestone today because it's a big investment that's going to happen, it's going to establish a new gas region, and we're going to get infrastructure linked northwards. So when things are in place, we pass the Polar Circle – and within an area that is very technologically demanding, but that also imposes some environmental requirements. I think that both the case rapporteur and the Council of State have made an excellent presentation of the content of the case and of the potential and importance of this matter for the nation. There is no doubt that there may seem to be some dark clouds in the gas sky at the moment, and that you are concerned about both the short and especially the long-term price picture that appears. But I would say that as long as the main competitor is still coal, and in the optimism that Europe will be repatriated economically, and that we will have a well-functioning CO2 market, there will also be a significant place in the Norwegian gas market in the future. Don't leave this few unsaid from my side. In such a debate, we have also noticed today that the issue of ring effects has its natural part, and there is no doubt that, although major investments have been made on the Helgeland coast, there is too little percentage to establish the major ring effects. It is quite natural that the established environment in Norway — with 40 years of experience and the best in the world in its fields — tends to draw the ladder southwards and westwards. But I just want to say that to the industry, to the department and to the directorate: be aware of those who have the greatest ambitions to establish themselves further north, that the ringing effect is the power of the example of being a door opener to move forward towards the Lofoten and the West. In this regard, I have recorded that many have the opinion that the established structures are in place forever and ever. Of course, it's not like that, and it's also been up to the Council of States. For example, we have seen that Tromsø is now starting to establish itself as a node. Companies establish themselves there: Aker Solutions, and the government pointed out Tromsø as the location of the Arctic petroleum centre. My question goes to the Council of State and is about Bodø. This field has a location 300 km west of Bodø. There is no attitude in the ministry to exclude Bodø as a future petroactivity arena in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e503	I am a little surprised that the Council of State did not choose to respond to the challenges that the Left pointed to in the article. Then I thought he might be allowed to get more than one minute to respond to them, because these challenges are quite big, both economically and in principle. This is an investment costing $50 billion. kr, and about 80 pst. this is paid by the State. Then I think it is quite important information for Stortinget whether this is a project that is sensitive to the gas price or not. This is a lot of money. Not having information about this, believing that the Norwegian oil and gas adventure is going to go to heaven anyway, believing that our projects and our products in this area are going to be at any time the maximum demand -- it's not long since the raw materials we produce here were actually much cheaper. One does not have to rewind many decades back until the oil and gas prices were something quite different from what we are talking about today. When questions can be asked about so much investment, I think it's quite remarkable that we don't get an answer to that. So I want answers from the Council of State on one thing: is the legislation that the Council of State should deal with when dealing with matters, and order, so tiring that it is completely impossible to achieve it? Why doesn't the Council of State come back to us with suggestions for another way to do it, so that it is possible to do it in the reality that he's in the oil and gas industry? I understand that the Council of States, when it comes to finding Norwegian historical heroes, is difficult to get beyond a good number of left-wing people, but that is not the reason why the Left votes in favour of the proposals. But when you don't manage on Edvard Grieg, you don't manage on Martin Linge, you don't manage on Gina Krog, you don't manage on Ivar Aasen – when you can't do that order, why don't you do something about the code? So I just have to say in the end, when you say that an electrification would be to have too much ambition in the environment, I wonder what kind of world you live in. The oil sector in Norway accounts for 25 pst. the emissions and this project will lead to annual emissions of 218 000 tonnes of CO2. Then we're not talking about over-complying the requirements – then we're talking about moving far away from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e519	Let me try to clean up some practicalities that many people have been concerned about, and let me start with the power supply and the power situation in Central Norway. It has improved, especially since the completion of the Nea–Järpstream in 2009, and it is going to improve in the years to come. New production is being phased in. Of course, the big grip is in the completion of Ørskog–Sogndal, scheduled for 2016, and I have, as I said, no information that the schedule does not last. In addition, the department works with the completion of the line above Fosen and wind power generation equivalent between 4 and 5 TWh. This image already looks significantly different. Prices are already visible today, and will look significantly different in the future. It's worked well and dedicated to get this in place. In the case of Nyhamna in particular, it's a consumer radial. There is a risk that the operator takes if you choose to lie on N-0 or N-1. Statnett has, as far as I know, made it clear to the license that N-1 can be offered against construction contributions. I assume that the representatives who have raised this question are also of the opinion that in that case the actor himself has to take the bill for this. It is not a task for the Norwegian community in the form of a higher net tariff for all of us. In the case of the reserve power plant, it is built for the region to ensure its electricity supply to the region. Any use of the Statenett facility in the event of an outcome would require a commercial agreement between the licence and Statnett and, at the moment of its existence, the Ministry would be able to assess it. The gas connection point, which has been occupied by several, is also in place. At the moment there is a customer with a willingness to pay at Nyhamna, it will also be possible to extract gas for regional consumption. Price sensitivity is well described in the proposition, usually. Is it that this isn't sensitive? Of course, in the usual way, everything we do on a Norwegian base is sensitive. However, following the reasoning given to the Left, it would have been natural to significantly lower the level of taxation on the Norwegian base, so that the State would not be exposed to risks and fluctuations in international oil and gas prices. We've always been, and we're going to be in the future as well. This is a profitable project. This brings Norway forward, and it is important to do so. Nevertheless, you are voting against, and that is incomprehensible. Yes, this is part of the solution. The US is now reducing its CO2 emissions due to gas, and they are going away from coal. That is, in my view, the solution for Europe in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e541	First the energy supply. Now this line, Ørskog – Sogndal, was planned to be completed in 2011. It is now likely to be completed in 2016. There's a difference here in five years. Then it's reasonable to ask questions about it, when we know just how important that energy supply is, and there have been repeated releases, as I said. So some words about Soria Moria. When this government joined, it gave a clear and clear signal of domestic gas use and expressed a wish for it to be realised. It was a strong political desire, and in a plural government, a wish is the same as doing one – if one will. Then it becomes very special when a whole since 2004 has been waiting to put this regional hub in place, especially when one knows that the cost of binding it on a so-called hot plant is so great that everything speaks for it to be nothing. We know that the cost of connecting to the mobile gas power plant was about 350 million. kr. It symbolizes the level of that cost in many ways if it is to come when it is a customer. It gets a little bit like the chicken and the egg: what's the first thing that comes? In any case, when it is assumed that this offer will lead, it is strange that a failure to go in and make sure that this comes in place – especially from the Workers' Party in More and Romesdal, which has an annual decision that their representatives will influence and ensure that this will come in place. Or is it so that More and Romsdal's claims representatives from the Workers' Party have a zero impact in this government, just as we saw it when it came to hospitals? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e550	I was injured to claim that SV would vote against this case, and that is of course wrong – although there would be some sort of political logic in it, since SV in 2004 as the only party voted against the landing of gas from Worm Lange. But it is such that there is an internal coastal zone in the government, and SV has then entered the fold here. Then it might be my great concern for the Left that caused me to protect the Left in this matter. I'm sorry that the Left seems to be voting against. I wish a total increase would be in favour of this matter or these projects, because they are societal, they are environmentally correct, and they are forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e557	I need to clarify a few claims that have emerged in the course of the debate, among others. by the representative of Arnesen – and, to some extent, by others – who claims that the suspension in the Committee alone is about collecting information. That's a reason we have a normal progress in a committee. Then you have the opportunity to ask the kind of questions that you think are relevant. You have the opportunity to get an answer to what you might have to think about. What was very special in this context was that one chose to postpone the matter because of an e-mail from an unknown environmental organisation at its manager, who made some hopeless claims. That is why the matter was put at risk. I do not think that should be the procedure for Norway’s National Assembly: putting cases on the basis of random e-mails. I think it's very special, and hope there's a kind of procedure this big deal feels too good to have in other contexts. I also see that the representative Arnesen refers to an article in the Official Journal of Harstad. I just have to stress that I have never claimed that I alone have made sure that Asta Hansteen is realized. I think maybe the representative Arnesen should talk to that journalist – it's interesting enough that there's at all a theme in Stortinget. But it's just about what we discussed, and have discussed several times today: choosing to postpone a case on the basis of an e-mail from a random environmental organisation. I hear more people are discussing electrification on the base. It's a recurring theme. There are some of the most expensive climate projects that can be implemented. One thing is they don't have any value, in the sense that they don't at all reduce CO2 emissions, they just move on them between countries. The gas we're burning off at a power plant on a Norwegian base is rather sent on and burned off in Germany or other places if you use electrification. So it has no climate value, but it's very, very expensive. It is a reality. So I hope you might be a little bit more realistic in your approach to that field. Otherwise it is nice to record that the Stortinget – minus 2 – today adopts Asta Hansteen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e573	The President allows himself to recall that we have a relatively comprehensive agenda for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e576	This is an extensive matter and a great day for us – I have to say a happy day in More and Romesdal. This decision we are now in is going to contribute to major ring-effects. Rings like this are what we want in the future, namely to put gas pipes in place so that we can take the gas ashore. We've done a lot of work on that. I've been to a lot of meetings locally to get pressure on this, and I think the prerequisite for getting it on is what was said before, that we assume that the Polarled project will not be a barrier to linking a future gas take-off on Nyhamna. So when you sit for eight years without political power, you can go a little mad sometimes. I would like to say that the representative Grimstad shows a bit of a bad mood on such a day of joy that we in More and Romesdal – and especially in the Workers' Party – are present here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e583	I need to make some comments relating to the statement by the representative Amundsen, given that it was my proposal to postpone the matter. I will not leave it hanging in the air that it was on the basis of an e-mail. I would like to stress that for those of us from parties with one person in the committee and with major issues for consideration in a short time during the spring – there are 16 issues that the Committee on Energy and the Environment is dealing with in a short time – at least I need to be safe on the decisions I make. I was very pleased that the committee was also clear that it wanted to give me the opportunity to go in and investigate more. There were several who expressed their wish to do so. When we got the confirmations we needed, it was quite okay, and we went to surrender in the case. There has also been no open consultation at Stortinget. So anyway, it's useful to read carefully all the input we get, and then ask questions based on them. In addition, I have to link some comments to electrification. It is true that in some cases it may be an expensive measure. The Christian People's Party's attitude is that we want more projects that can be electrified. That is, to a large extent, the wish of the Storting. We have said that in the climate agreement. Then we have to make sure that it happens. Now we see that projects after projects are being expanded. I was in my line that it seems that one would also scrape electrify the Johan Castberg field. That is what is the great concern of the Christian People's Party, that the government settles for it and does not make any clearer demands. Therefore, it should be assumed that operators and developers have to justify why they cannot choose electrification and that electrification is the general rule. It goes far beyond the climate agreement, but it is the Christian People's Party's policy. I fully agree that when there are no good reasons to electrify, we should not do so. I want documentation and facts on the table, so you have to make good judgements based on that. We have an ambitious target of reducing climate change emissions, and this must also be accompanied by oil and energy policy. That's why we're impatient, and we're clear that we want a more offensive line when it comes to electrification.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e592	As rapporteur, I would like to make a few comments. First of all, I think it is important and very gratifying that we adopt this huge project that is of great importance. I thought we'd get a total mass, but it's going to be minus left. I think that's a pity, and I'm sorry. But that's the way it is. Then I must also underline what the representative, Mr Ropstad, says from the pulpit. Bellona wasn't the reason for the postponement. I don't understand with my best will why you're going to make so much drama out of 14 days of outsourcing when it doesn't have any practical significance. I don't understand. I think it is important that the committee is so liberal that it can be postponed when it has no special significance. I think it's nice that there's an overall committee and a total magnification, so that you can do things together. There has been a lot of work from many. We see today that in the gallery there are almost as many audiences as there are magnification representatives in the hall, and it says a little bit about the engagement shown. I think that's very nice. If you have not read the «Good Foot» by Nils Arne Eggen, you can do so, because it is important to have an interaction between business actors, the Stortinget, the government and so on. It goes on interaction, and then you get things in place where the political decisions are taken. And then I'm using a red tie, and it has a little bit to do with the party. I think it's important. One can also enjoy that it's a nice color, and that you can celebrate this big project today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e607	The President will remind you that all the speeches in the main hall should be addressed to the President, but that does not mean, of course, that you cannot speak for the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e610	I would like to share some considerations relating to the debate that has taken place here. The part of progress has confirmed that electrification is very expensive, and wants much less of it. At least it's hard to understand them the other way. In addition, there was considerable doubt as to whether what I experienced was stable and forward-looking solutions locally, whether they were energy supply or gas supply. There are also doubts about the stability of the process. Now it is not my job to comment on the process in Stortinget, but Stortinget approves this expansion today on this side of the summer that you have foreseen. On the government side, there is at least reason to say that this is no problem. And then the Left is going against the entire expansion because you're going to take completely different business considerations from what the operator, the directorate and the government are doing. What's the balance sheet price in the project is 164 cents. As of now, the price in Europe is 240 cents. That's why we said this is robust. There's a reason to notice that the left is of a completely different opinion and of such a different opinion that you choose to go against. The interesting question of principle is, of course, whether it means that it is intended to go against all profitable investment projects on Norwegian soil and in Norway. I'm not going to answer that, but I see Skei Grande going to talk after me, so then she can answer it when she gets to the pulpit. The Christian People's Party is for even more electrification. The representative Ropstad said from this pulpit just now that the starting point must be that electrification should be in place. One will go beyond what has been agreed upon in the climate agreement, and what the Christian People's Party itself voted for a short time ago. The right is, as far as I can see, in agreement with the government in this matter, but does not like the prior approvals of contracts which are, firstly, well-founded, and, secondly, part of the powers which this House has given to the ministry in the 1996 legislative amendments. So it is believed that there are too little ring-effects in the north, despite the massive expansion of jobs that benefit this part of the country, and the optimism that at least I experience in the whole of the country. In short: it doesn't seem exactly that the opposition has co-ordinated and agreed with itself. Here it cracks in all directions, and it might be a relevant question to ask: what is the result of what has been the stability and predictability of Norwegian petroleum policy, if these are the parties that will decide it together after 9 September?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e626	Next and so far last recorded talk – without any encouragement in it – is the representative of Trine Skei Grande, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e629	I have no plans to do the debate any more with what I thought I would say. I just have something to point out. I see that state councils act as political commentators from the pulpit. There are interesting ways of summarizing the debate. We'll just have to do that. The left is not against this project, but we believe that there is a great deal of uncertainty about it – especially in relation to the price. I have to say that I'm a little surprised to have a government council that doesn't see that big projects on a Norwegian base that you thought were profitable, but as with small – very small, I mean – tax changes suddenly don't become profitable anymore, that it's a warning. I think it's scary with everyone who thinks that just in the same way, everything is going to grow into the sky, and I think it's scary for the North Norwegian business community that you don't take those objections into consideration. The left has voted for most of the projects in this room. But we have often had objections and questions related to them. We believe that if you go into uncritical development, where you don't weigh these things up against each other, Norway can move in a pretty scary direction. Thinking that the project is going to save North-Norwegian business when you're not sure of profitability, I also think I'm scary. That's why we're voting against this today. We're not against the project in itself, we're not against the expansion, but we think there's so many uncertainties that we can't put our party name on as uncertain an extension as the one we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e643	I didn't really intend to extend the debate, but when the Council of State Ola Borten Moe went to the pulpit to comment on disagreements in the opposition, it was in his place to remind him that this hall unanimously joined the kerosene message, which we dealt with not long ago. So there is a broad consensus about the long lines of Norwegian petroleum policy. There is a broad consensus on the long-termity and predictability that should and should be the basis for the development of Norwegian resources. But then the Left disagrees with this project, and the Left is free to be. I was in a debate yesterday with the State Council Board Vegar Solhjell. He agreed with the Green Party's representative Rasmus Hansson that the production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base should be phased out from a 20-year perspective. So you could say that among the government parties is the cracking point of view. Even within the Centre Party, it must be said that there is quite a wide scope for what one might think about energy policy in Norway. The Central Party has now ruled the Ministry of Oil and Energy for eight years. The party has been the same, but the policy has changed dramatically according to who has been sitting there. So I think that within the Center Party you'll find all the views that are represented in this room today. If the Council of State needs to comment on the views of other parties, he must also consider commenting on the different views of his own party in the same matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e650	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e664	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose a five-line succession of five lines in response to statements by a member of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Nikolai Astrup – on behalf of Siri A. Meling, who is the rapporteur on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e673	It is in Norway’s interest to develop several inter-national links for the transmission of power. Several cross-border links improve security of supply in Norway in dry and cold years and greater opportunities to export power in wet and warm years. In total, there is more stable power prices in Norway, and it creates community values when we can buy surplus power reasonably from Northern Europe when the wind blows and the sun shines, and sells our regulatory power when prices are high in Europe. In total, therefore, it is in our interest to develop more cross-border links, and the Right believes that the level of ambition should be raised in this area. Statenet has major tasks in Norway. The internal network shall be developed for between 50 billion. kr and 70 brd. kr in the following years. Then we're just talking about the central network. Many major projects are already delayed and more expensive than planned. It therefore makes sense to relieve Statnet by allowing other actors to expand and operate foreign tables. The changes in the energy law proposed by the government mean that this is not possible. It thinks the Right is unlucky, and we have trouble understanding the reason. The Government Parties justify Statnet’s monopoly on the construction and operation of inter-national connections by seeing these links in the context of the needs and constraints of the domestic network. Of course, no one disagrees. However, there is no argument that, once this assessment has been carried out, the need for the connection is established and the capacity of the domestic network has been assessed as sufficient. Only then will there be a concession for development, and it is precisely in the concession treatment that the government's counter-representations are to be taken care of. Some also express concern about who is left with the basic rate if the surplus on the intermediate link turns out to be large and justifies Statnet's monopoly on the acquisition of the Community interest rate. The right fully agrees that the rent on land will fall to the community, but it can be resolved through the tax system or by other means that ensure the builder and operator a reasonable and predictable return on the investment and that the surplus in excess of it will fall to the community. This is the way we pick up the basic rate on a Norwegian base. There is no one in this room who believes that Statoil should have a monopoly on oil and gas production on a Norwegian base for the sake of the basic interest rate. Therefore, there should be no reason for Statnett to have monopoly on foreign tables for the purposes of the rent on land – we collect it through the tax system. Giving Statnet a monopoly on ownership of inter-territorial links means, in substance, that the authorities provide important tools to reduce the risks and costs to customers. The government believes that online customers should take the whole risk alone. Several actors will both reduce the risk and lead to competition and diversity in projects. It can provide better projects and greater implementation. The right believes that monopoly on inter-national connections can lead to more expensive projects and lower rates of expansion than is the case if we let go of all good forces in interaction with the public. I'm dealing with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e686	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e689	The energy sector is changing both in Norway and in Europe. Increasingly more renewable energy production, the shale gas revolution in the United States and very low quota prices make it important to look at how we organise ourselves in the energy sector. The changes proposed by the government in Prop. 113 L travels important debates about ownership, foreign trade with electricity and has revealed different philosophies among the political parties about how we think about foreign trade with force. It is positive that the change proposed by the government in the second paragraph of Section 3-1 and Section 5-6 are endorsed by an overall committee. It is also positive that smaller wind turbines, which are currently subject to concession treatment under the Energy Act, must now be treated in the municipalities under the Planning and Building Act. It gives greater local influence, and it releases important capacity in the concessional treatment system. Increased local influence on such issues may also increase the acceptability of the population for this type of nature intervention. The big debate on this issue has concerned the changes in the energy law rules for ownership of foreign tables. The government proposes that only Statnett, or companies where Statnett has a dominant influence, should be able to build foreign tables. The Committee’s hearing was also of the opinion that this is a matter of concern. Foreign cables are important for Norway. We have a hydropower-based power system that makes us vulnerable this year with low rainfall, especially this year with low rainfall and cold winters. That's what we saw in the winter 2010 and 2011. We depend on being connected to the countries around us. It allows us to export force when we can and import force when we have to. It also gives us good finances in connection with the foreign tables. Foreigners are a critical infrastructure. Control of the flow of power into and out of the country is central to ensuring the balance of the power system. The working party and the red-green government will build socially profitable cables abroad. It provides value creation and security of supply. We also contribute to balancing an increasing amount of power from unregulated energy sources such as wind power and small scale hydropower. However, we do not want unlimited development, and we want to ensure official control. Today, only State networks build cables between Norway and the rest of the world. The government's proposal does not lead to a change of practice. The Government's proposed amendment to the Energy Act § 4-2 is important for several reasons. In particular, I want to draw up some facts. Firstly, the profits from the foreign tables today are going to reduce the net tariff for Norwegian online customers. There are, in part, quite large amounts per year used to facilitate the bill for upgrades and maintenance – paid by online customers today. I believe it is an important value that the profit from the power exchange should go back to the community in that way. That would not be the case with a private owner of the foreign tables. Secondly, increased flows of power between Norway and the rest of the world lead to a change in power flows in Norway. This may lead to the need for the development of networks or increased maintenance costs. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that the builder and operator of foreign tables is the same as the one responsible for system integrity in Norway. Network development is expensive and is directly charged to the customer through the network tariff. It is therefore also important to monitor the impact of the construction and operation of the cable on the network. Thirdly, the key changes made to the Energy Act in 1991 were that we distinguished between the production and transport of electrical energy – that is, to prevent an actor from being given too much market power, and to ensure real third-party access to the network. I am not surprised that the opposition wants to allow more private ownership in the energy industry. For my part, I believe that what is at the heart of such issues is how we ensure that the profits from systems for which we are all involved in paying for are returned to the public, and how we ensure official control of critical infrastructure. We must also be clear that the construction of foreign tables will benefit the people of Norway. The government's proposals show an ideological difference between the red-green government and the opposition. The government’s proposal is a correct change, not least ensuring official control of foreign trade by force in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e717	We have launched a large-scale deployment of renewable energy in Norway. This energy shall be used to replace fossil energy use, e.g.: by electrification of platforms, and by developing own energy-intensive industries that are environmentally friendly and that contribute to the creation of value in Norway. Rather, we want to supply Europe with processed energy, industrial products such as energy. aluminium, rather than being a primary energy supplier. At the same time, we see a large-scale expansion of non-regulatable renewable energy in Europe, from the sun and the wind. It increases the need for power exchange, both so that we can deliver energy when the windmills in Germany stand still, and so that we can receive energy when they have too much wind power in Germany, as they had in the rum Christmas last year, when the price of energy was actually negative. For this reason, it is important to develop international relations – in order to increase security of supply and to support the development of the renewable effort in Europe. This is a great deal of agreement, with the exception of the Advance Party. The disagreement between the government parties and the opposition relates to ownership rights. As we have seen in several other areas, the right side is not to be trusted in securing public ownership of natural resources and important infrastructure related to natural resources. The rational development of foreign tables will generate good income in the long term. These revenues shall benefit Norwegian consumers. At the same time, new foreign tables will also lead to the need to upgrade the domestic network. Therefore, it is necessary that the owner and builder of foreign tables are the same as those responsible for the integrity of the system of the domestic network. This will help to ensure that a view is made of the construction of foreign tables in connection with the needs and constraints of the network in Norway. At least as important is keeping the distinction between production and transmission of power. No one is surprised that power producers want to acquire ownership of the foreign tables for full control. But if we look at the other hearing opinions, we see that the LO wants strong public ownership of the natural resources and infrastructure, and they say that they are very satisfied with the requirement for ownership of the foreign tables. Energy veterans and Sintef also believe that there are good reasons to give systemic responsibility for the development and operation of foreign tables. The Competition Authority believes that it would be optimal for a system operator such as Statnet to be responsible for the operation of the international connections. They also point out that the foreign tables will prevent domestic power companies from manipulating the market and creating regional deficits at high prices. The setting up of the Environment Agency (ZERO) has no preference as to who owns the compounds, but points out that climate needs to be included as a development criterion. It speaks for public ownership in my opinion. In the case of district heating, the Energy Act is amended to regulate access to third-party supply and opens the possibility of negotiating third-party access – subject to a number of reservations from the Committee. It is important to stress that the purpose of these changes is to ensure that energy suppliers, heat suppliers in the vicinity of a district heating network – such as those such as electricity supply and heating. fitted with waste heat – shall be able to use the energy as efficiently as possible into the district heating network. These changes are not intended to introduce competition in the district heating network, for example: have been made on the electricity network since district heating is currently exposed to competition from electricity through the concessional conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e734	A central purpose of the foreign concession scheme is to facilitate the most efficient and secure exchange of power between Norway and the rest of the world. Here are security of supply, the environment and efficient resource management logs. The centre party believes that this forms a framework for the matter we are dealing with today – and the central question is how we can best achieve this goal. Our country is part of a Nordic power market with distinctions to the power market in Europe. It allows us to secure the supply of power in times when we produce less than the consumption of our country, and it also gives us a surplus power market. The change we are making today, clarify what is subject to concession, what is the criterion to be used for assessing whether foreign concessions are to be granted, and what is to be regulated in the civil engineering and foreign concessions. Secondly, it is proposed that only the system administrator, or where he has a decisive influence, should have a foreign concession. The central party believes that there are good reasons why Statnett should own or have control over the foreign connections. The setting up of such cables often leads to the fact that it is accommodating with upgrading and strengthening of the domestic power grid. It is of great importance that owners and developers of extraterrestrial landscapes are also responsible for the integrity of the system of the domestic network. Developments will be seen more closely and the overall use of resources will be improved. Furthermore, the Centre Party is clear that it may have adverse consequences if producers of power also have access to own and operate the network that exchanges power between Norway and the rest of the world. Now I'm not going to repeat all the good reasons that the representative Stroem went through on behalf of the government party, I just want to put behind them – and add: The current network is critical infrastructure, and the connections to the rest of the world we from the Center Party think is right and proper that is under the control of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e747	The exchange of power with the rest of the world is important for Norway because it makes our hydroelectric power system less vulnerable to the variations in rainfall. In periods of low rainfall, if necessary, we can import the power we need to meet domestic demand. In periods of high rainfall, power producers may export power to the rest of the world accordingly. The daily power exchange between Norway and the rest of the world is largely based on the use of different technologies to generate electricity. Therefore, sufficient transfer capacity to the rest of the world contributes to the efficient use of power resources. There is a need for a transmission system with the capacity to handle the increased cross-border trade if an integrated Nordic and European power market is to function properly. Market integration requires new investments in transmission capacity between countries. Due to bottlenecks in the transmission system in the Nordic power market, situations may arise in which the power price becomes different in different geographical areas. Such bottlenecks can sometimes create large price differences between the price ranges. The Christian People's Party's starting point is that inter-national connections contribute to energy conversion from fossil to renewable energy, as we see in, for example. Denmark. Norway can also contribute more manageable hydropower in other countries. More inter-country networks are a prerequisite for a future renewable European power system. If we succeed in the electrical certification system and get a lot of new renewable energy, there could also be energy that can be exported. Therefore, we believe it is more important to maintain the rate of expansion of current inter-national relations plans and to initiate new design than to have explicit state ownership. We also record that almost all the hearing bodies were sceptical and critical of the change. The introduction of explicit state ownership, in the view of the Christian People's Party, will lead to less focus on the development of inter-territorial relations. The legislative proposal will provide a lower rate of expansion of inter-national relations and reduce the current professional environment. The legislative proposal will also monopolise the initiative to develop new links, which is likely to lead to fewer new projects in the future. Commercial initiatives will disappear as the economic incentives for the actors cease to exist. They have contributed greatly to the expansion plans of the continent we have today. Therefore, the amendment will remove an important driver for Norwegian inter-national connections. We also know that Statnett has many demanding projects in the future. Today’s capacity situation will make it difficult to implement today’s development plans without delay. The fact that they are now to have a monopoly on inter-national relations makes the situation even more difficult. We ask major questions about whether Statnet has enough capacity and capital to implement the projects that should come. Another aspect of explicit state ownership is that all competences will be brought together in one company. In addition to the fact that all development initiatives will come from Statnett, all professional investigations, public plays and professional contributions to the social debate will also come from Statnett. It will create a closed debate. State ownership also requires that the professional competence of inter-territorial relations is not only maintained but also strengthened in Statnet. In the future, if Norway wants to be ambitious in terms of inter-territorial relations, it cannot be hindered by a lack of skills and a limited professional environment. This must also be part of the political strategy. Finally, through the concession provisions, authorities may decide who will be able to build, an assessment of socio-economic considerations, an assessment of the impact on power prices, and a consideration of other considerations. To those who are concerned that the large amount of money may come on their private hands, I would like to stress that one through the tax system can ensure that any large profit can be attributed to the community. That is why we believe that the most important thing is that a sheep is built cables, not that it is a monopoly on it. That's why we're voting against the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e762	It is a fact that, within a very short time, we will receive a lot of renewable energy in Norway and the Nordic countries, which will be difficult to use domestically. I would like to make a comment on what the representative, Mr Egeland, said – and it is unexpected to hear from that team: for example, you can. produce aluminium of any of that force. I think that's very, very happy. There have been no such signals we have previously received from SV. This force, of which we receive profits in the Nordic countries, and in Norway in particular, must be exchanged with the rest of the world – that is, there is no disagreement. We in the opposition believe that it must not just be Statnett to produce the cables. The other actors are largely owned by the public – most power plants are either the State or the municipalities – therefore there is no risk of competition. It was claimed from one of the representatives that you could manipulate if you had control of the cables. The cables may and should be built in competition between Statnett and other operators, but the operation of these cables must be subject to concessional concession, of course, so that the power to be exchanged for Europe is covered. This is glorified by the fact that only Statnet can manage to expand these cables, and that it has to be in the control of the government. Statnet now probably has so many projects that it will be difficult to implement the project portfolio they have, up to 70 billion. kr, in a very short time. You can't do that, and it would be a strength for the power situation in Norway if you also got people other than Statnet to build these cables. It'll be public owners. The profits go largely to the municipalities – the municipalities own a lot of the public power. There is very little left in this country that is owned by private companies. In that case, the private enterprises are large corporations, foreign and Norwegian, which own some yet, but it is small. That is why, in the Progress Party, we want Statnett to have competition. We need more – we feel we have competition, we get better innovation opportunities and we get better prices. That's why we're going to argue that only Statnet should be able to build foreign tables.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e771	The Government proposes amendments to the concession rules in the Energy Act in three areas of this bill. Firstly, it is proposed to update the current legal provision on the concession for the export and import of electricity. It will provide a preparation of, among others. what is subject to a concession, who may be granted a concession, what must be taken into account in the examination of concession applications and what conditions are involved. It is also a proposal to clarify who can obtain a concession to own or operate the international connections. I'll get closer to that. Secondly, a legislative amendment is proposed to allow smaller wind turbines, which are currently subject to concession treatment under the Energy Act, to be treated by municipalities under the Planning and Building Act. Decisions that may be taken locally should as far as possible be taken locally. A concession limit related to effect will ensure predictability as to who will deal with the case – who will deal with what. The proposal will improve the division of labour between the State and the municipality for smaller wind turbines. It's very good and will hopefully trigger more interest in that type of project. Thirdly, the Government proposes to drop new negotiation requirements for district heating concessionaires receiving a request for third-party supply or third-party access to the district heating network. This is done to facilitate more efficient use of district heating resources: more heat supplied from different resources. I think that's good, and it should be able to trigger new potential. At the same time, I would like to stress that the proposal does not imply any right to supply or access, but the right to negotiate. So I want to go a little bit closer to the question of who should be able to own the foreign connections. I have noticed that the opposition over a long period of time has been directed strongly against this part of the proposal. I believe that the government has a well-founded proposal, which ensures that Statnett – as the system administrator for all our overall power grid and also as the owner of most of the central network – has a similar responsibility for foreign connections. Foreign connections are part of the central network. It's a natural monopoly. The only thing – and it should be thought that one agreed in the Right – that is worse than monopoly, is thus private monopoly. The electricity network is socially critical infrastructure, and a well-planned external power trade is important for many reasons. I agree to point out the contribution to security of supply, especially in dry years, and the need to give all power producers the same market access through Nord Pool. The planning, construction and operation of the domestic power grid and the external connections are closely linked and the total infrastructure constitutes a national electricity supply system. As a central network operator and a significant network operator, Statnett is responsible for ensuring that there is a constant balance between the generation and consumption of electricity and for making the necessary investments in the transmission system. This shall be done on the basis of socio-economic assessments. I believe that Statnett has the best conditions for developing new foreign connections, looking up to the Norwegian power system as a whole. The opposition believes that power generation actors should also be able to own foreign tables. Some of these authorisations were actually granted early in the 1990s. They were never realized. Let me just refer to what happened early in the 1990s, namely the rules for separating production and transmission. It was then forward-looking and good decisions. There are no good reasons to allow producers to re-enter the central network by allowing private ownership of our international connections. Let me also say that I don't see the need. We now have a comprehensive development of new foreign connections. We've already built Sweden. It is now being built in Denmark. We have signed agreements with England and Germany. If this is realised, it will increase the exchange capacity of 3000 MW by 2020. There is an increase of 60 pst., a significant increase in the existing capacity. Our system, in our opinion, is probably not dimensioned in order to take additional capacity increases during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e792	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e796	It is interesting that the Council of State believes it is so bad to allow private people to build and operate a foreign table, when he thinks it is entirely right that the private owner Gassled. What does the Council of State think is the fundamental difference between letting private ownership of critical infrastructure, such as Gassled, within the petroleum industry and letting private ownership of an intermediate link?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e801	If this was a basic post to sub-privatise or sell Statnet and make the central network part of a competition, it's an interesting clarification from the Right. I have not registered that on my own. My starting point is that the international connections are part of the central network. It is a natural monopoly, and it should be organised and operated in the same way as the rest of our central network. It's closely related to our supply system. How to build and operate it is also very closely linked to how to operate and ensure an overall, good and safe power supply in Norway. Finally, it is important that there is a distinction between producers and the transport of energy. It has been Norwegian policy for the past 25 years. At that time it was a forward-looking and good decision. That's it yet. There is no reason to allow producers to re-enter the central network. Gas link is the infrastructure of the sea. It is very important for Norway, yes, but also subject to interest rate taxation. I hear that right saying that you should also introduce it online. I don't understand how to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e812	Gassled thus has a natural monopoly and is comparable to an inter-national link. It is fully possible to collect the basic interest rate on a foreign connection by saying – just as Gassled has done – that a reasonable predictable return is guaranteed for the person building and operating the intermediate link, but that the extra income is due to the community, just to pay down on the domestic development of networks, which is the current system. There is no reason why this should not be done through a concession and tax system, in which the government ensures official control, where the rent is due to the community and where the system integrity is ensured by the concession system. Why does the Council of State think this is so difficult to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e817	I hear that the representative Astrup claims that it will be possible to collect the rent through tax regimes other than what we currently have for the central network. It is essentially a fiscal or tax theory exercise, all the time the type of change has not been proposed. I cannot understand anything other than that it must mean that you want to impose a basic interest tax on the network company in Rygge – or, if necessary, only for the international connections. How to do it in practice, I have no idea. We don't have to deal with that, all the time this is part of a natural monopoly. You do not solve the overall problem, namely that you have overall system responsibilities. This'll hang in the middle of nowhere. How to operate and expand international connections is related to power supply, power balance and power security in the other network. For Gassleds, the whole point is that you operate the whole system together and can optimise. What the Right Now proposes is a fragmentation of a natural monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e824	In the past, we often heard from the positioning parties that Norway was going to be a green battery against Europe. It's been considerably faded down lately. What we can see from the contours of, is really: do the cables have enough capacity to be a battery at all? Won't there be very little power we can exchange, with today's planned cables? We in the Progress Party are therefore a little concerned that other than Statnets should be able to build this – in order to achieve sufficient capacity. Can the Council of State say a little bit about this last one?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e831	The plans currently available, including the extension to both Sweden, Denmark – which has been partially realised – Germany and England, represent a capacity increase up to 2020 of 3000 MW, or 60 pst. This means that we have never built so much new exchange capacity before in Norwegian history in such a short time. I therefore think that the claim that we will not be able to carry significant amounts of electricity both in and out of Norway and the Nordic countries falls on their own unfairness. Interterrestrial relations are a long history. The first one I think came in the 1960s. These require significant investments also in back-up networks. It doesn't just keep building a cable and pulling it ashore, you also have to make sure that it works well with the system throughout the country. This means that we need to upgrade not only inter-national connections, but also the entire national network. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we be able to see this in context – and do so as it is sound and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e838	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e852	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e861	The 1996 Nature Conservation Act provided the basis for the creation of the State’s National Monitoring Office (SNO) as supervisory authority. The aim of the SNO is to preserve national environmental values and to prevent environmental crime. The SNO must therefore supervise nature itself and human behaviour in nature – it becomes a holistic oversight. I believe it is important that we have good supervision and control of the enforcement of legislation to ensure the sustainable use and protection of natural disasters and land. At the same time, it is important that we achieve a good division of tasks and roles and a good cooperation between the SNO, the archipelago service, the local mountain government and the police. We need to use the resources effectively and respect local knowledge and the commitment, for example. mountaineering and mountainopausal stand for. It is not to hide that it has been discussed and unsightly, but I believe that we have now largely been cleared up in this, showing, among other things, that. that the SNO has valid contracts for the purchase of services from the Archipelago Service, State Forest and Mountain Service and the supervision of mountain government and the general public. It is now proposed to amend the laws of nature, which provide for a clean-up of the nature of the law, and a clarification of the legal basis of the supervisory control. Act on recreational and small boats § 40 is now included in the list of decisions to be monitored by the Natursvishet. The legislation applies to water snipers, which were granted in accordance with this paragraph. I believe that it is right to clarify and clarify their powers, both with regard to who is being controlled, and with regard to the supervision of their working situation and the possibility of effective control. A common regulation of powers in the law on natural security will be a thing of the past. When it comes to defining the role and understanding of the role of the SNO and the police, the majority of governments support their proposals. I want to refer here to the proposition where it says: ‘Natural security and police are both concerned with monitoring compliance and detection of possible breaches of the rules. Forces such as search, seizure and seizure are reserved for the police. The instruments of supervision must be specified on the basis of their role understanding and after weighing the possibility of effective control, proportionality and competence.’;» It doesn't stick so that the SNO can put physical power behind its orders. Therefore, no dangerous situations should arise, as pointed out by the minority, as a result of the SNO being able to stop people and vehicles. To be able to exercise this authority, a penalty must be imposed on those who did not. Therefore, it is made punishable not to comply with orders. The majority support the legislative amendment proposal. The other parties have alternative suggestions that I expect them to do well for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e883	The right was critical to establish the SNO when this was done in 1996. The proposal for a State nature oversight did not clarify the relationship between local oversight and a state nature oversight or the relationship between supervision and management. In addition, at that time, the Right considered that the lenght offices and today’s civil oversight corps have built up great trust and a good local contact network, and that a non-governmental nature oversight should be carried out in parallel with existing professional oversight arrangements. Right-wing insists that the main task of a civil state nature oversight should be an act of stagnation, with environmental monitoring and control functions. Following up concrete suspicions of serious cases of environmental crime is a task for the ordinary police. Right is critical of some of the proposals in the bill, and believes that the State's nature oversight, with the submission of new § 3 of the law of nature, is given powers that go far into what is the police's task. It will include, among others: be able to suspend supervision of persons, vehicles and vessels and to require the submission of permits and exemptions. They may require information on name, date of birth, registered address and current residence. Furthermore, supervision may require access to private roads and inland areas, with the exception of residential and garden spaces, and the implementation of audio and video recordings and other documentation measures. This is all the way to the right. Instead of legislating a development in which natural oversight has been increasingly involved in police tasks, a state’s nature oversight should instead limit its tasks in relation to current practices to what should be the oversight of its main tasks, e.g. deterrent activity, environmental monitoring and a control function. Right thinks that the supervision should have the ability to put physical power behind its impositions, and that the ability to stop people, vehicles and vessels is a right that should lie with the police. The police directorate also shows in its hearing that they are sceptical about this. They think that stopping by means of physical closures can escalate and be dangerous for both supervisors and those who are being tried to stop. Such a measure requires knowledge and training. Right does not want to add the law on recreational and small boats to the list in Natural Observance Act § 2 above the decisions with which the Naturbesicht is to exercise control. We believe that the supervision that small-boat traffic – including watercraft – is conducted in a defensive way must be a police task. I'm addressing the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e909	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, has taken up what he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e912	In my opinion, this is a very positive case – because there is a cleaning-up in which the laws of nature supervision are to be monitored, and because we are given a clarification of the basis for the supervisory control activities. I have little understanding of the concerns of the Right and the Advance Party as to whether the State's nature oversight now receives powers that they believe are within the police's remit. Firstly, after many years of ambiguity, there is, in fact, a consensus on what is being proposed between the Agency and the police. Secondly, it is strange that the two so-called law-and-order parties – the Right Party and the Advance Party – are in fact calling for a policy that makes it impossible to follow up the crime. Is it because the parties really believe that these crimes are not so important? If they believe that there are important crimes, the parties are without a sense of reality, if they think that the police should be able to be present where the people of the State are today. It would also be a totally crazy priority. During the terrorist action on Ut Island, Northern Buskerud had police districts — covering large sections of Hardangervidda — three uniformed police officers on guard throughout the district. It was good they didn't find themselves, for example. on a motor traffic control on a wide range! It would require an enormous strengthening of the police if they were to enter into the tasks of the Natursprüfung, and that would be a totally crazy priority. At the same time, when the government opens up an increase in snowmobile traffic through routes for recreational purposes in some municipalities, it is important to allow for the reduction of illegal and dangerous driving. Too many rural areas have lost their young people in motor vehicle deaths. Nature oversight must have the opportunity both to ask for identification and to stop people, for which there will be a need in a number of the tasks in which the Naturbsicht exercises control. It is about efficient resource use that the people of the SNO are given the powers proposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e927	A basic idea for the Center Party is that the Earth should be passed on to the next generation in at least as good a condition as it was when we took over. Reasonable and sustainable use of the earth is a central part of the solution to the climate crisis, to the energy crisis and to the food crisis. The center party thinks that use often is the best protection. We believe that those who live with and by nature have knowledge and experience to manage the earth in a good and forward-looking way, just like generations before they have done. In fact, we can thank natural users for much of the diversity we find, both before the cultural landscape and the diversity of species in our country. Nature gives us food, water, energy, leisure activities and natural experiences through hunting, tourism and fishing. Man's use of nature through generations has given us the landscape we have today, and cultural memory that we can be proud of. Then we must also ensure that environmental crime is maintained and that national environmental values are preserved. Then you need a clean-up -- a clean-up that primarily manifests today's management practices, which give the administrator some powers, but at the same time limits others. Clear boundaries and division of tasks in natural management are also important against, for example, Mountain government, mountain supervision and others who manage important tasks before our natural management, on which the case spokesperson was involved. It must be clear what the laws of the State nature agency are to monitor, and what the basis for their control is. Its monitoring activity is important in order to ensure national environmental values. At the same time, police have to exercise police authority. Therefore, raising the border against the police's power is important. It is the police who have political implications and must have a police picture, and this must be reflected in the legislation. I am therefore pleased that the original proposal that supervision should also be able to establish e.g. physical closure, adjusted. It is clear from the proposal that stoppages should not be possible by the fact that materials or persons constitute physical closures corresponding to a roadblock. Nature conservation is one of several important means of managing natural resources and natural disasters. Although they treat the earth with the respect it has for it, it is important — both for the prevention and detection of environmental crime — and therefore this matter is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e940	A single committee points out that the objective of the State Environmental Protection Agency (SNO) is to ensure national environmental values and to prevent environmental crime. The SNO must therefore exercise supervision of both nature itself and human behaviour in nature. In many ways, this will be a holistic oversight. It is now also proposed to amend the laws of nature, which provide for the cleaning-up of the laws of nature, and for clarification of the basis of confidentiality of the supervisory control. Experience also shows that there is a need to clean up the powers of the SNO and that there will be a common regulation of the powers of the NCA. There is also a call for a good explanation of the role and understanding of SNO’s tasks, especially in relation to the police’s tasks. The party of progress and the Right believes that the main task of a civil, state nature oversight should be staggering activity, environmental monitoring and control function. Following up concrete suspicions of serious cases of environmental crime is, in our opinion, a task for the ordinary police – not the SNO. In other words, the party of progress is very critical that the SNO will now be given an extended mandate to intervene in the role of the police, as is now the case. The progress party is also critical to add the law on recreational and small boats § 40 to the list of tasks to be monitored by the SNO in the field of nature care. Monitoring that small-boat traffic — including watercraft — is being conducted in a defensive manner must be a police task.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e953	The government is promoting proposals for changes in the law on state nature conservation. The government proposes changes to the supervisory clauses 2 and 3. On the one hand, the changes involve a clean-up of the statutory regulation. On the one hand, the changes provide a clarification of the basis of trust for the SNO's control operation with a more detailed definition of the powers and obligations of the control object. The state’s nature oversight is doing an important job to value national environmental values and to prevent environmental crime. The enforcement powers of the law are not directly governed by the law today, but are implicit in the tasks entrusted to it and by certain specific laws. Clearing and clarifying the powers of nature supervision is important both for the sake of the citizens being controlled – that they have good conditions – and for the sake of supervision of their working situation and the possibility of effective control. The proposal is essentially in line with established supervisory control practices. The aim of the proposal is to legislate in the law of nature, laying down the basic powers necessary for the monitoring of natural resources by law. The Government proposes that supervision should be empowered by means of control to stop persons, vehicles and vessels, to require the granting of rights required by the laws governing the supervision of persons, to require information on personal facilities, to have access to private roads, in the event of a suspected breach of laws over which supervision is exercised, to have access to land with the exception of the premises and the yard, and to keep records and to expel persons and/or to require the carriage of vehicles, vessels or items removed in order to stop ongoing illegal behaviour. The proposal does not provide natural resources for the use of physical power and clearly limits the exercise of police authority. Borders against police force have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice as the responsible department of police. The use of the powers may only be made when necessary to verify that the rules of supervision are in control, are respected, and it would not be by its nature and otherwise would be by way of excessive interference. The authorisation shall be valid only where supervision is exercised and not when supervision is carried out. The person being checked is obliged to comply with instructions within the scope of his powers of oversight. Failure to comply with such obligations will be punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e969	Both in relation to the representative of Egeland and others, I just want to establish that the Right is a law and order party, and that is why I believe that the police are going to take care of these arrangements. That is why we are voting against Section 3. We think this is approaching police tasks so much that it should be the police that do it. I have a question for the Council of State: Is he not concerned that a government agency other than the police gets so extensive tasks into what should be the police's territory? Can't this lead to bad events and circumstances when the police aren't supposed to do these?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e977	I think maybe I have two other concerns first. I'm concerned that we have a significant amount of environmental crime in Norway. A part of it is serious crime, which is important for it to be broken down, for one to follow up and to prevent. SNO is one of our most important tools to do so in width, of course, in addition to the fact that matters that are being reported should be researched and handled in the usual way by our judicial authorities. Then it also has our cause for concern, I think, because we have not had a clear enough legal limitation – a home for the SNO's business. We're going to get that. And I find it a little weird that a party like the Right doesn't seem to make more sense that an existing one is allowed into law, and that's essentially a continuation of what's now. Then the boundaries of the police authorities were drawn up in cooperation with the and their responsible departments with full agreement on what is now being presented. Then I feel sure that it will be neat and work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e986	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1000	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1009	The case concerns a proposal from the government representatives Nikolai Astrup and Siri A. Meling for a report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. Every two years in the period 1999–2007, a major communication was presented to present the development of the environment and the main elements of the government's environmental policy. Since 2007, no major communication has been submitted on the government's environmental policy and state of the state of the state of the state. The majority of the Committee, the governmental parties, stress the importance of effective environmental reporting, and they point to the Ministry’s website, environmental status.no, showing an updated overview of the environmental status in Norway at all times. They are also clear that the government is promoting policies in other documents, that the experience of the big business message on the state of the state of the state of the state has been varied and that the format has not been suitable for a more holistic discussion of the principle. For this reason, the government has chosen not to present a state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state since 2007. The Committee's minority, the opposition – the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party – believes that it is unfortunate that no big message has been presented, and we share the opinion of the proposers and wish that the government's environmental policy and state of affairs had been presented as a big message. We also point out that in six years there has not been a single wholesale communication that has provided a presentation of the government's environmental policy. At the same time, we point out that the review of the performance targets in the annual budget proposals is important, but does not replace its own big message of government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state, because its own big message would provide a better basis and a more comprehensive discussion of the main environmental challenges and policies, regardless of the annual budgetary assessments and appropriations. I'm taking up the minority proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1022	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1025	As the case-speaker said, every two years in the period 1999-2007, a big report was presented on the government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state. As also the case-speaker mentioned, the Government Party believes that effective environmental reporting is important to provide a precise picture of the environmental situation in Norway. There must be a simple and accessible overview of the functioning of the instruments introduced in relation to the environmental objectives adopted. The experience with the state of the kingdom's environment was that this was not necessarily the right form for reporting. It was also the background for a co-consensual committee in 2008 which asked the government to assess the appropriateness of this form of notification. Otherwise, the Ministry of the Environment has its budget proposal – in my view – a very comprehensive orientation on results and achievement of objectives in different environmental areas. The Ministry's environmental status website always refers to an updated overview of the state of the environment in Norway. At regular intervals, messages have been provided in important areas of environmental policy. Otherwise, I refer you to the Council of State letter from 9 April, which is at the setting, where he writes: ‘When it comes to the concrete proposal for an own big message, I will consider the matter more closely and come back to Stortinget at a suitable ratio.’ The majority therefore proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1041	The rapporteur has explained in an excellent way why we should continue to have a big message on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and a comprehensive debate on environmental policy in this Chamber, based on a government communication. Therefore, I shall be brief and careful to say that it has been six years since the last time the government presented what it itself referred to as the most important communication on environmental policy in Norway, and a communication that gave the Storting a chance to debate environmental policy in a comprehensive and comprehensive way. Reference to the creation of a website called environmental status.no. It is an excellent website, but a poor substitute for an overall debate on environmental policy in the United Kingdom. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government and government parties, which claim to be very concerned about the environment, will not give the Storting this opportunity to discuss the results of government policy and the ambitions they have for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1048	The Socialist Left Party is a driver in both environmental and climate work. At the end of the session it is with joy and pride that we can look back at everything that has happened in this area in the time of the red-green government. I would like to mention something: this government has launched the most comprehensive climate change measures, we have had a turnaround in transport policy for the benefit of trains, public transport and bicycles, we have adopted a bio-diversity law that is used as an example worldwide, and we are in the process of a comprehensive deployment of renewable energy. There have been many cases for the Storting in this area. At the same time, I do not think there is any disagreement between the parties about the need to have a comprehensive review of Norwegian environmental policy. The Committee notes that the Ministry has a website, environmental status.no, where such a comprehensive overview can be found. At the same time, it is reported in the State budget. But that is right, and that is what the proposers are asking for, that we have not had an overall debate in the Storting in recent years. I fully share that wish. At the same time, it was a unanimous committee that asked questions about the shape of the former state of the environment, whether it was right. I think, perhaps, that regular statements by the Minister for the Environment can be such a good form, as we have in the field of foreign policy, and as the Minister for the Environment has offered. But I note that the Environment Minister writes that he will come back to Stortinget, so that next year we will be able to get an environmental policy statement in an appropriate form, and I hope that it is just him who comes back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1057	Some brief comments also from the Center Party's page: This is a typical case that does not necessarily have a phase, and from the Center Party's side, we actively participated in the handling of the state of the kingdom's environmental status messages the years they were produced. We were also behind the plural comment, the general comment, which said that this might not be the way to deal with this further, as the case-speaker had to say. This was back in 2008. The core of this is how we in this committee, and at the same time in the greatest possible way, can not only discuss the breadth of government's visions and strategies in environmental policy, but also its follow-up. Then I would like to stress that we in this room quite often discuss the government's environmental policy with both narrow and broad approaches, so that one must not pretend that we do not have a debate about the government's environmental policy. I'm going to say that we have. But the center part is quite happy to widen out and find new and different forms to do this. A model is an outreach from the Council of State, which we can discuss – something that has been used by other committees with success – or we can find other ways that we can have wide-ranging environmental policy debates in this Chamber. This is just a signal that we from the Center Party's side are at least open to discuss different models for this. I don't think that there's any big mess in the committee and in this room about the main objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1070	Firstly, I am sincerely pleased with the interest expressed by the representative Astrup and the rest of the committee here when it comes to the government's environmental policy and the need to debate him in the Stortinget. The government has put environmental policy at the forefront. We have introduced new and far-reaching laws, such as natural disasters, on the very very important climate and forest activity, which is being noticed internationally, and set up new holistic management plans for our marine areas, in order to capture a few things. All these things have been thoroughly discussed in this room. I can also add the two messages about climate policy and the strategy for sustainable development. Here, the Stortinget has also had the opportunity to discuss widely the government's policy. I therefore believe that this is not the way the representative of Astrup says that the Stortinget has not been discussing the government's overall environmental policy in recent years. This government has, and has, high ambitions about a high rate of environmental policy, and the Storting is invited to discuss all the government's important choices here. The government's environmental policy and state of affairs, RM, were presented five times in total, with about the same template. When the Energy and Environment Committee dealt with the latest message so far in 2007, the government was asked to assess whether the message in its present form functioned accordingly. According to the government's opinion, the experience of this form of message has been somewhat varied. Work on such a message consumes a great deal of time and resources, and it is therefore important that the results and benefits are proportionate to the work being done. It is also important that the debate actually leads to what is meant by the message. I am not overconfident that the format of this message provides the best basis for a more holistic and fundamental discussion on the choice of direction and priorities in environmental policy, as the objective was. When it comes to reporting on the state of the environment in our country, it has been a goal for the ministry to make it both better and more available, and an important tool has been the establishment of environmental status.no. That being said, I will nevertheless be open to several ways of presenting the government's environmental policy to the Stortinget. I therefore agree with the proposal that it would be both positive and useful to have a common and fundamental discussion on the choice of direction and priorities in environmental policy, as well as the budgetary debate. However, a message according to the same setup as before may not be the correct solution. Perhaps distributions or a message every four years, depending on the model of the perspective message, may be alternative models that are very good. If a new message of a similar type to RM was to be present, I think it would require a more thorough discussion of both the content and the function it should have. As Minister of Environmental Protection, I am always at the disposal of the Storting to do something for the government's ambitious environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1091	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1094	I really agree with the Council of State in his final comment that it must at least be carefully assessed. The ways in which the Council of State outlined that it could be done are examples that the Christian People's Party can look at when, hopefully, we get government power for the harvest. There are several ways one can organise, gain more control and overview of, a general debate on environmental policy. One of the proposals that we agreed on in the climate agreement – which is to some extent side by side – was to assess the appropriateness of a climate law. The Christian People's Party wanted to go even further, but at least we're happy that at least one was going to prove the appropriateness. My question is: what about the offence? Is it e.g. soon to set up a public sample to assess and assess the climate law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1104	I am pleased that the representative, Ropstad, mainly shares my reflections. I don't have a fasitant answer to what's the best way to secure a debate. To be completely honest, I think all models can have their own challenges. It does not tend to be a step-by-step house on all the foreign policy issues either, I think from my own time on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Creating a good debate in the Biggest, which is principled and superior, is a challenge that I believe we have in many fields. But I've thought through it, and my plan is during the fall to come back to Stortinget with a closer assessment, and then I thought it would be natural to have dialogue with the various parties in the committee in advance of what kind of thoughts you have about it. When it comes to the question of following up the climate agreement on climate legislation, the government will of course do it and come back with how to decide whether it is preferable to introduce a climate law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1115	My question really just depends on how things are. Last year we agreed to assess the appropriateness, which I thought was too short, but that was where we got into the climate agreement. I'm concerned that it can't be the biggest job, so in a year's time one must have come a long way in that investigation. My question is really just, what's the point? I might have expected someone to put down a public sample or something like that this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1124	We're trying to follow that point up. But as the representative Ropstad thinks, the climate agreement was a quite comprehensive package of a number of things. Most of it came from the climate message, but a good part was added. We're going to come back again with how we're going to follow up that point as well, but we're not done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1131	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1147	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1156	Biodiversity is the basis for human existence, quality of life and well-being. Biodiversity has been developed naturally over a long period of time and through cultural influences. It is an overall committee which underlines the importance of preserving biodiversity for future generations and which believes that it is best done through a combination of protection and sustainable use. A law is important to ensure that Norwegian natural values are respected. The Nature Diversity Act, which was unanimously adopted in the United Kingdom in 2007, is one of the most important tools we have for maintaining important natural values in Norway. Norway has also acceded to the Convention on Biological Diversity. 20 new global conservation objectives for natural diversity and ecosystem services up to 2020 were adopted under this convention in Nagoya in 2010. It was also agreed that countries should update and revise their National Natural Diversity Action Plans in line with the new global objectives, and that the Action Plan should be in place and implemented by 2015. Representatives Tenden and Skei Grande have made a number of proposals in the document on how to better address natural diversity. A single committee shares the intentions of the proposers with the proposals, but considers that the concrete proposals need to be considered in the context of the national action plan presented in March next year, when the proposals are very comprehensive, and many of them will require their own investigations. A Joint Committee therefore proposes that document 8:66 S be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1171	It is important, as the case-speaker says, to take care of the natural disaster. We need to have measures, instruments and legislation to support this. We have to meet our international obligations and do our part of the job. Then, through the Convention on Biological Diversity, we are obliged to follow up the global objectives to ensure the protection and sustainable use of natural diversity. The government does so, for example: through the work of a national natural disaster action plan. The many proposals made by the proposers should be considered in the context of this work. The proposals are many, 23 and extensive, and it is impossible to comment on them in a few minutes, but I refer to the statements of the case-speaker, and that there is a joint committee behind the vote. It is an attitude to which the Trade Committee also subscribes. It's the left behind the suggestions, and they'll be standing alone about them. I guess it shows the rift on the side of the city. When the bourgeois parties take the aim of ruling together, it may be nice to note the great distance it is in environmental policy between the outer left and the progressive party in the civil wing. When it comes to the Left's proposals, there is a lot of this that has already been dealt with, as stated in the Council of State's letter to the Committee, but there are also proposals that we have discussed and rejected here before, for example. the first proposal, to wind up aid schemes for forest roads and to operate in difficult terrain. The left has tried it before. They did when they had the Minister of Agriculture. I myself was deeply committed to counteracting that proposal. As of now, this would lead to a large reduction in forest management, among other things. in Gudbrandsdalen – which I know well. Now we have a situation where forestry and timber industries are struggling, so that one will actually establish stimulating packages of measures. So once again, the left hand side has to do the opposite. For my part, I think that an active forest operation is needed for value creation. It is also environmentally friendly at a time when the cultural landscape throughout the country grows to be forested. This is an example of the fact that these proposals from the Left should not be accepted, but, as I said, be included in an assessment and as an input into an action plan to address the biological deficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1184	The previous debate was about how we could have access to this committee and in this room to discuss the scope of environmental policy. In this way, the Left has made a contribution here, because it is an extremely comprehensive proposal that has been put forward here. There are many proposals and they are comprehensive. Some are good, some are less good. When I take the floor, it is to comment on what I currently see as a missing context in the Left's rhetoric and a missing link between environmental policy and the nature protection policy of the Left. It has repeatedly surprised us in the Central Party that when a discussion of climate, either in this room or in debates outside this room, the Left is among the parties that are most forward and most impatient when it comes to the request for more renewable energy to replace fossil energy use. They have several times come with quite strong criticism of the government, because one produces too little alternative energy, too little renewable energy. But when we go to the core of this and start discussing the alternative types of energy, for example. The bioenergy and potential in our forest are, of course, the left in the front row to impose restrictions on that forest operation – including in this proposal. Should a set of windmills to produce pure wind energy, a Left meets its local teams with banners in demonstrations outside. If a small power plant is built to generate renewable hydropower, it can be quite certain that in many cases the left is there and protests against the construction of the plant. So one is for the energy, for the pure energy, but one is about all the plants that are going to produce the energy, the lines that are going to lead the pure energy to replace the fossil energy, and to use the forest to create renewable fuel, renewable heat, not least, that can replace the oil fire, that brings with it large emissions. Then we don't say in the Center Party that we're going to build all nature – in no way. There must be an assessment on a case-by-case basis. But it is not possible to say that all measures to produce clean and climate-friendly energy should not be implemented, while criticising the government for not doing enough in the climate field. It just doesn't hang out together.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1193	Attack is the best defense. The left believes that robust ecosystems with a wide variety of species and genes ensure access to vital ecosystem services, such as food, clean water, clean air – the natural resources used to build houses and provide energy. Natural diversity provides experiences and quality of life and is an important part of the culture of many different societies. That's why it's dramatic for life on the globe when the diversity of species is eradicated at a rate that's at least a thousand times faster than what's natural. It is the poor parts of the world's population that are hit first and foremost directly when natural diversity disappears. Norway too has a long way to go before natural diversity is assured. In the Norwegian Red List of 2010, which shows forecasts of species risk of extinction from an area, there are 4,599 species, of which 2,398 are classified as at risk and 1,284 as at near risk. The biggest threat to natural diversity in Norway is land use and land use change. The development of natural areas and the cultural landscape threatens animals and plants, and many habitat types that are not elsewhere in the world are in the process of disappearing. The development of cabin areas, a road – which is certainly a theme here today – a power station or the planting of foreign wood produces revenues for both municipalities, businesses and individuals, without any visible cost of destruction. Here lies the core of the problem. It is difficult to reverse development and stop the dramatic loss of species and habitat types, because diversity is destroyed bit by bit, and because each intervention may seem insignificant. It is only when you look up and see the larger picture – regional, national and global – that the picture becomes clear. Norway has obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity to halt the eradication of species. The proposers are pleased that the international community through the Convention has established an important framework, but that is what is happening within the borders of each country, which will determine whether the objective is being achieved. Therefore, it is crucial how Norway manages natural resources within its borders and how biodiversity is affected in the rest of the world. I refer to all the good proposals of the Left in the document and hope for a positive response for them – for nature and for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1210	There is still a great need to ensure natural degradation, both internationally and at home. Therefore, I am pleased to see a great commitment to Norwegian natural disasters from the representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden. Norwegian nature is very varied. The combination of topography, northern location and hot sea currents has provided a wide range of landscapes and nature types. At the same time, we know that approx. 2 400 species are threatened, according to the Norwegian Red List for Species 2010, and half of the 80 natural species on the Norwegian Red List for Nature Types 2011 are threatened. It's the sum of many small and large single interventions that help their species to be eaten up piece by bit. 87 pst. of the threatened and threatened species on the red list are threatened by anthropogenic land changes, such as: housing, energy installations, road, nutrient development, mass extraction, forestry and agriculture. The absence of natural types, species and genes is building blocks in ecosystems. The interaction is so nice that extinction of one species can have great consequences for others. That's why we have to work to take care of the health of nature. To meet the major challenges we face, we need to work in many areas at the same time, and all sectors that have a negative impact on the lack of plants and animals in nature must contribute to the work. Then, through the Convention on Biological Diversity, Norway is also obliged to follow up the global goals to ensure the protection and sustainable use of our natural diversity. In order to follow up the objectives of ensuring a holistic approach to natural disasters by 2020, the government will establish a national natural disaster action plan. We aim to complete the action plan next year. The work on the National Action Plan is rented by the Ministry of the Environment and is carried out in cooperation with the relevant departments and is based on the national environmental objectives. This will include a mention and an assessment of the current nature-deficiency instrument, and we suggest any improvements or new instruments. The action plan shall also address knowledge needs and coordination between sectors and between levels of administration. I will come back to Stortinget with the main features of the action plan when he is completed next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1232	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1235	An important area of natural diversity is the conflict between oil and vulnerable areas. In a previous management plan, an ice edge and the polar front have been defined as particularly vulnerable areas. An additional communication has been submitted to the Committee today, stating that in the new area to be opened in the Barents Sea south-east there may be petroleum activities throughout the region, but that time limits are imposed so that it cannot be the whole year. We know that over the last few years — by 2003 at the latest — there has been a high prevalence of ice going deep into the new area. This means that petroleum activity is now possible in areas where the ice may come in parts of the year. What makes the government now accept the risk of opening up petroleum activities in areas where there will be ice in parts of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1244	That's wrong. The previous message, which is followed up today with a clarification – which was first sent a message about and which is presented as an additional message today – states that according to the management plan, the Barents Sea should be south-east managed according to the same principle as in the existing management plan, i.e. that there shall be no petroleum activity at the ice edge and the polar front. Then the management plan defines a limit of 35 km from land and a limit of 50 km from the ice edge in certain periods as well. He also stated that further discussions on this, for example: is needed to define it even more closely, will be included in the roll-out of the Barents Sea Management Plan for the next major period — as indicated in the Norwegian Sea Management Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1250	It could also have been tempting to follow up the representative’s questions, but as the additional message came while we were sitting here, it is difficult to get it done. Instead, I would like to ask the Council of State a question about the Law on Natural Diversity. As I mentioned in my article, the Nature Diversity Act is one of the most important tools we have for maintaining important natural values in Norway. At the same time, both builders and public authorities seem to be being taken to bed over the fact that important natural values exist in areas where they also plan infrastructure projects. This conflict between modern needs and natural values is becoming increasingly apparent, not least in urban areas. The question is what the government is doing to follow up on the fact that public agencies, public actors and others are actually taking over the natural diversity law and planning and taking into account the natural diversity law when developing e.g. roads, railways and other infrastructure — such as: power lines from Ørskog to Sogndal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1259	It's an important question, because when you introduce a new piece of legislation – especially a law as comprehensive as this is about – it'll take time to implement it. I believe that the most important thing is to slowly but surely develop the necessary skills on how to understand it, not least in our municipalities. That is why we work very systematically through an own project to build up competence in the field of natural disasters – interpretation and understanding of it. I've also had more meetings. It has been a theme for KS to discuss how we can work together on this, because here the municipalities will be a key factor. The third is that, fortunately, there is an extensive monitoring of natural diversity. I believe that in order to avoid processes that go over a long time, with contradictions, etc., perhaps good knowledge and understanding in advance are one of the most important things. I see that municipalities that have it are more capable of avoiding this than those that don't. That's why we also follow up the need for mapping at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1266	I would first like to thank the Council of States for their thorough and relatively positive response to all the proposals that the Left has here today. My question is palm oil. The Minister for the Environment writes in his letter that there is no industry standard or certification system that is good enough. My question is then: why not prevent use and import until they are in place and credible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1275	Norway has a strong commitment in different ways to limit the negative impacts of the palm oil industry on deforestation. It's special in Southeast Asia it's a big deal – and specifically in Indonesia. Through the forest project, we work heavily with Indonesian authorities on this, and we are also in dialogue with companies. As the representative is probably familiar with, several companies have been excluded through the Petroleum Fund because of their practices. So it's part of history that there's a big difference between how the company operates and whether the production is productive or not. Therefore, it is also important to have a nuanced image of it. But the most important thing is that we follow this heavily – especially in the area where it is most topical, to limit the damage from the palm oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1282	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1287	I am one of those who believe that the intention of the proposal is good. But now, when we agree to attach this protocol, I need to explain the vote, because I believe that some of the proposals are completely unacceptable. Taking care of natural diversity is particularly important. I also believe that the government has done a good job in this area over the past few years, and I am addressing the action plan that is now under way. However, the measures that need to be taken to strengthen the protection of natural diversity must, in my view, be based on both a certain degree of legitimacy in the population and be appropriate. What concerns me in particular, and I would like to say clearly from this platform – something also the representatives of Sande and Rudihagen were in a very good way – is that the impact we see on the efficient and good forestry contained in these proposals does not seem to benefit forestry. It's an industry that needs all sorts of drag help. I do not think it is particularly appropriate to take care of the natural diversity either. I am thinking in particular of proposing to wind up all support for e.g. forest roads. It's going very far, and it's in my opinion very little appropriate and can also help to weaken very much of the legitimacy of natural diversity in the population. First of all, the forest roads occupy very little area, and I believe that the forest roads we have need, and where we need to make the roads better, there is also a good environmental protection measure we are talking about. It has to worry those who are concerned about the climate, but also about the natural diversity, that we are now in a situation where well only 35 pst. the growth rate in Norwegian forests is reduced. It's a major climate challenge. However, we also believe that effective and good forestry, which we have quite a long tradition of operating in Norway, has very few arguments to say that it has hampered biodiversity and natural diversity in Norway. That is why I need clear support for the line on which the government has put forward, at the latest, for the proposals put forward in the revised national budget to strengthen the establishment and improvement of forest roads, so that the industry too has an opportunity to operate efficiently and efficiently. Driving efficiently and well in forestry is a good climate policy, which in turn reinforces the diversity of nature. I believe we have very little evidence to say that healthy and good forest activities have destroyed in particular by the diversity of species in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1298	Natural diversity, landscape diversity and biodiversity in biological species are incredibly important. Very many species survive only if nature is used and not bound against restocking. The view of the centre party is multi-use; it is long-term; it is profitable in long-term use – the longer-term, the more in line with ecological requirements. The proposal of the left today is marked by bans, blacklisting, protection in the sense of binding and reporting – for example, the general obligation to notify at the highest level. What's that? Report what? Report to whom? Controlled by whom? What's happened to the Left Party? Historically, the Left was a combination of theoretical and practical life, anchored in practical life across occupational groups and social teams. It was something great. Now it's talking about 'robust ecosystems', it's talking about climate, but a dare not to talk about photosynthesis, a dare not to talk about forest mowing, a dare not to talk about use. There is no focus on the use of soil or forest, no focus on the size of the land used, the decline in fertility in the soil, the decline in the production of renewable carbon. Today's Left appears in a competition to be the most excellent theoretical, mostly on a visit in nature, while those who work there, in sowing, in planting, in growing and harvesting, more and more appear to be the problem than the solution. This is a vision that is fundamentally contrary to the great knowledge we have about ecological contexts, about the relationship between man and nature. Ecology is a subject of its own, interactions in nature – it is the interaction between the beautiful physical and biological contexts and man’s management of them. Left forgets man. The left speaks climate, while reducing the production of plant carbon. The intention of the Left's proposal today is not good, but simply harmful to ecology, as one has learned it through the work of generations for the great diversity of species.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1305	Now you talk so much about civil division! The fact that the last three entries from the government parties represented some common position was hardly possible. The similarity between Sande, Storberget and the Council of State, or perhaps at any rate Lundtägen, Storberget and the Council of State, was quite fascinating. I almost don't know where to start. Actually, we're for interaction. But we're not for an interaction where the one who interacts is wiped out. We are in favour of an interaction in the ecosystems where species can survive. We're in favour of a balance sheet, and we're in favour of that balance sheet based on knowledge. And yes, we are for knowledge, also the practical knowledge that Lundtigen showed. There's a difference between being a theorist at one end and being a homeborn at the other end. But what we are proposing here, for example. within the maximum, is practiced in many places in Norway. It works perfectly well, even for those who are active in forest management, such as for example. in Oslomarka, where you have an active forest management, and you also have active harvesting of lots. But you have a reporting obligation system, and it's probably going to fight the Left to keep having, like the big forest owner like the Oslo Agency is in this area. Well, we can get a lot of protection done, there's a lot of farmers who want voluntary protection, just the government would have been willing to put money on the table to actually do it. It's not right, as Sande says, that we've been against windmills and against all kinds of hydropower plants. The big windmill municipality in Norway, the one that went all the way in front of windmills, was actually the Left Municipality of Smøla. It had the first large wind farm in Norway and was led by a Left rapporteur. But we can actually have two thoughts in our head at the same time. It's not like you can solve the climate challenges and then the day you might have done it, turn it around, and then you've ruined nature on the road. Then there was nothing to fight for. If you can't have two thoughts in your head about taking care of the diversity of species, take care of the classical nature protection and make sure that we have a forest that is actually balanced, which is a very important part of it, then there's nothing to fight for. I notice that both the Workers' Party and SV today see this as a good proposal, while the Center Party is not even willing to look at the nearest forest and on how it is done there, to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1316	It is no secret that the Centre Party and SV look at the use of nature differently. However, I think what's important here now is not to discuss what different alliances think about this, but what we think about the matter. The leader of the left says that one is for interaction in nature. Yes, interactions in nature, that's the core of ecology. Ecology is to understand the interaction of nature. Part of the interaction in nature is humans, and the more humans live from renewable natural resources, the more a living of the carbon that plants provide us, the more environmentally friendly it is. It's the view of the Center Party. The problem today is that more and more of what we need from carbon comes from oil and gas. That gives us bigger problems. So we have to use nature wisely, using nature so that species survive, and very many species survive only through use. The left is talking about protecting chives and all the world's stuff -- old operating methods. The most important thing is to ensure the operating methods that we have today, which allow us to use our areas wisely for the production of food and fibre. In this, the left comes with reporting obligations at the highest – that we should have the same law across the country as in Oslomarka. We shall be required to report at the maximum in the forest belt. That's wise, because we have to be very careful there. However, introducing reporting obligations at the highest level in all forests in Norway — what kind of theorization is it? We need knowledge, we need education of people who understand the interaction of nature, not least those who work with the forest. We need authoritative people. We have to take care of the diversity of species. We have to balance a forest, said the leader of the Left. Yes, what is forest in balance? It's that we both have to chop a tree and then or plant a tree. It's equally natural. When they get older, trees can be mowed. We must have a practical, healthy relationship to that. The left never talks about mowing trees. One's talking about bonding, bonding, bonding. This is important to have a debate on whether to be credible in the future environmental debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1325	The next speaker is the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and then the representative of Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1328	Now it is a little regrettable that I come between the representatives Lundtägen and Skei Grande and destroy the exchange of lines. But I needed to follow up on what I said in my question, which I felt I was not getting a good enough answer to. That is why I want to clarify what I think is serious about what I perceive has come to the Council of State today. The correction contained in the additional communication that came today is: ‘In the ice edge and polar front areas, petroleum activities shall not be commenced at this time. The issue of petroleum activities at the ice edge and the polar front will be re-examined in the context of the next update of the Barents Sea Management Plan. This does not preclude the operation of petroleum activities throughout the Barents Sea south-east.» There's two contradictions. On the one hand, one says that one does not want petroleum activity at the edge of the ice and the polar front, and in the next sentence one says that it does not prevent petroleum activity throughout the Barent Sea south-east. Then the question is, what defines a'skanten and the polar front'? I have received an answer to questions from the Ministry: ‘In the concept of the actual/observed edge of the ice, it is added at all times to the ice edge observed. In the opening process, the ice edge is defined as 40 pst. ice coverage.’» That means that the ‘actual/observed ice edge’ is ‘the ice edge observed at all times’. We're all familiar with it melting and pulling northwards in the summer and pulling southwards in the winter. The previous Barents Sea Management Plan states: ‘Polar fronts also extend into previously disputed areas’ — that is, what is now the Barents Sea south-east. – «Seawater covers parts of the area during periods of the year. Maximum ice prevalence may vary from one year to another, the longer east you get.’ The point is, I can see that there's a contradiction here. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment is aware that there should be no petroleum activity in areas where there may be ice parts of the year, but what lies in the additional message adopted by the Council of State today says the opposite, and especially when one uses the definition ‘the ice edge observed at all times’. This means that it can be opened up to petroleum activities in the summer. But what if it becomes a find, and the ice is pulling down? Should one then say that here it is not possible to move on? Here one has either not been able to end up with a definition, and then through the supplementary message today has a conclusion, or it's a conflict with what the definition is. As I see it, this is a threat to natural diversity. It is very dangerous if the Storing is to adopt this, because that means that one opens up to petroleum activity in an area where there will be ice parts of the year. It does not want a Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1355	I believe that a party that is concerned about being rooted in the basic values that lie in that we are going to take care of nature, must also have respect for nature. One must also have respect for knowledge of nature. What is the basis for this proposal? Well, the basis for this is that we lose thousands of species around the planet all the time, species that we can both survive and live off if we had managed to take care of them, species that we have no right to eradicate in view of the coming generations. While the Center Party is afraid to get a warning, that someone has to fill in a paper, we see that thousands of species disappear from the globe all the time. What's with respect for nature? What does it have to do with respect for the challenges we are actually facing? What about the knowledge-based approach to what we're doing? Knowledge lies there in fact: we lose thousands of species at all times. There are species around us all the time. We are obliged, I believe, as politicians to take that responsibility. Then you should not be frustrated at perhaps having to fill out a form. Otherwise, read the proposal we have made, which is about figuring out if someone might have to fill out a form to save some of the things that we are responsible for in their entirety. I have noticed that the central part of the government is becoming increasingly pervasive, and in the last two months the government has decided to build both a road and a power line for its own party traps through highly protected areas, because it is most important. I am concerned that interaction should be based on knowledge, that the balance of nature should be based on knowledge, that we should use nature in all the ways we can that are reasonable people in relation to nature's balance. But we are also obliged as politicians to take a much more holistic responsibility, which is far beyond the scope of our tractor. It's actually about several generations, it's about the next generation having the same freedom of choice that we have today in relation to our nature and the ability to use nature properly. That is what these proposals are based on. I notice that almost all the parties in this room have realized that it is important. I notice that the Center Party thinks it's most important to attack the Left because we actually want tools to reach it. I think it's very short-sighted of the Center Party. I think it's very short-sighted on behalf of those who want to use nature for something sensible in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1368	I get the impression from the representative, Skei Grande, that the centre party here must have trotted on a sore toe of the representative, Skei Grande and Left, because we are asking some critical questions about the definition of knowledge. Knowledge is made up of facts, but knowledge is also the experience-based knowledge, which I would like the representative Skei Grande and Left to show a little more respect than what one clearly does – the knowledge they have that has lived in and the nature of generations, the knowledge of variations in nature, of the diversity of nature that they live in, and not just on visits there sometimes. What's interesting is that once again, Schei Grande does not comment on the importance of the use of nature, on which the representative Lundtigen challenges the left. When it mentions an explicit natural defect in the article, only predators specify on land. It has a cost on its own point. It is also an expression of the species discrimination that often exists in the left and part of natural resources when it relates to biological deficiency. The 30 pst. of the species living in the cultural landscape, a cultural landscape which is undergoing dramatic change, has not been given an explicit place in the Left's proposal. There might be a hint for the next time you have to pick up a suggestion in this room. Finally Smøla – Smøla and wind power. I think the former Smøla vocabulary manager will agree that it might not be the Left Party that has raised the wind force bag and the wind power production in Norway. Rather, on the contrary, the representative Skei Grande's last post showed that resistance to both power lines and others is part of the rhetoric to the left – just as I said in my opening post, so it was an emphasis only.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1377	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1380	Sande is wrong. I think the rapporteur is very pleased with the support he has received from the Left. However, he has also not proposed building wind turbines in the most protected areas of Norway. He has proposed doing so in a municipality that has a lot of potential to exploit wind. I think he has experienced that he has received good support from the Left, at least he has been here many times and worked on that matter. Then the Senter Party is supported because we have mentioned predators – we are dealing with species discrimination and should have had with some domestic animals. I don't see cows and sheep and pigs that very threatened species in Norway. I must admit that I have had an involvement with some horse breeds that seem to be threatened. There are some Norwegian horse breeds that are threatened, there may be some Norwegian curas that are. But we didn't find it as an important part of this. It's about being knowledge-based, it's about seeing what knowledge lies there, and what research is there. I think there are a lot of people who are moving in Norwegian nature, who see the feature much stronger than what the Center Party is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1389	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1392	Knowledge is absolutely fundamental and fundamental, and theoretical knowledge is knowledge to become a better practice. Everything must be anchored in the practical. Skei Grande says we're losing thousands of species all the time. Yes, species die and species die, as a result of climate change, as a result of changes in operations, and as a result of Norway’s having escaped from poverty, there are some species belonging to poverty that we do not have on a similar scale today. It's just like that, we like humans can do very little with it. The center party wants us to have reservations to take care of rare species, spend money on it so that we can secure them. But then we have to do it, not like today, where we make reservations without doing anything to secure the purpose of the protection. We are not afraid of reporting obligations with regard to the forest, but we are against filling in more papers. It's not the solution, it's the operating modes, and then it needs more practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1401	The representative Erling Sande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1404	The last post of the representative, Skei Grande, was descriptive. I didn't mean domestic animals with one word in my post, nor was it domestic animals I thought of. I recommend Left and Skei Grande to look past the predators and the domestic animals and look at the small species – not all of them are very visible either, but they should be as much world as other species – that live in meadows, that live in landscapes that are kept up by grazing animals, that live and are in our species diversity only because these areas are used. That's what I mean by species discrimination; when a set of species over others, it doesn't go into our calculation. I should actually wish – even if it never happens – that the environmental movement was in the lawn here and talk about these species that will disappear from our nature if the cultural landscape grows again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1409	I will not extend this debate. I just want to end by saying that all the proposals left handed in were not to tease the centre party – in no way – but there is a genuine knowledge-based commitment in the Left Party for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 6, 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1454	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1463	I will explain the matter in three minutes. 6, 7 and 8 on today's file map. First case No. 8, Prop. 137 S on the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment to consent to the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol to the Convention on Biological Diversity of 22 May 1992, on access to genetic resources and a fair distribution of the benefits resulting from the use of these resources. The Nagoya Protocol was adopted by consensus at the 10th meeting of the Convention on Biological Diversity in Nagoya, Japan 18-29. ==References== The aim of the Protocol is to achieve a fair and equivalent distribution of the benefits resulting from the use of genetic resources. The adopted Protocol is considered by the Ministry to be in line with Norwegian positions in the negotiations leading up to the Nagoya Protocol and provides the opportunity to ensure that value creation based on Norwegian genetic resources also benefits Norway even when genetic resources are used abroad. The Protocol provides a basis for potential innovations and revenues for the benefit of the community in Norway. The Protocol shall enter into force after ratification by 50 countries and shall be evaluated four years after its entry into force. Many of the provisions of the Protocol have been observed in the Nature Diversity Act, the Marine Resource Act and the Patent Act, but not all. Since the Protocol also requires legislative amendment and is considered of particular importance, the consent of the Storting to ratification is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law. In Case No. 7, Prop. 134 L for 2012–2013, the Ministry of the Environment proposes the inclusion of a new regulatory body in the Natural Diversity Act to facilitate compliance with the Nagoya Protocol to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Article 5(b) of the Protocol 5, Article 7 and Article 16 contain several obligations relating to traditional knowledge relating to genetic material. At present, there are no specific provisions of Norwegian law that fulfil these obligations. In order to facilitate the implementation of these obligations in regulations under the Nature Diversity Act, the Ministry proposes the inclusion of a new regulatory body in Chapter VII of the Act on Access to Genetic Resources. In Case No. 6, Prop. 145 L for 2012–2013, the Ministry of the Environment proposes changes to the Nature Diversity Act and the Outdoors Act. The amendments to the Nature Diversity Act clarify the rules on protection regulations in general and on regulations for landscape protection areas in particular. It is also proposed to amend the Natural Diversity Act to allow the delegation of competence to make minor changes to the protection regulations and to change the county's right of appeal as well as to amend transitional provisions for the protection regulations. The proposal for a change to the Outdoors Act involves a creation which was created by the Amending Act of 16 September 2011. I refer to the settings in these three matters from the Committee and recommend them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1482	We're now dealing with three things at a time. Let me first join in what has been said about the importance of the Nagoya protocol. The purpose of the Protocol is to facilitate the protection and respect of the interests of indigenous and local communities by access to and exploitation of knowledge related to genetic material developed, transferred and preserved by an indigenous or a community. This will have an impact in Norway, but is particularly important in developing countries where genetic resources are large and indigenous to date have had very limited benefits from the processing of genetic resources. The Nagoya Protocol will help correct this imbalance, and it is important that Norway is a driving force for as many countries as possible to ratify the Protocol and make the necessary changes to national legislation as a result. We also treat Prop. 145 L for 2012–2013 on amendments to the Nature Diversity Act and the Outdoors Act today. Right supports the amendments made to the Nature Diversity Act § 34, 36 and 77. We also support the proposal in the third paragraph of Section 62, which codifies the complaints lodged by the county court today, as a result of the delegation decisions taken in accordance with the second paragraph. At the same time, it is of fundamental concern that the Secretariat of the Security Council has an employment relationship with a body that has the right to complain about the decisions of the Boards. The right is of the opinion that this should be reconsidered, and we are surprised that it is only the Progress Party and the Right who see the unfortunate link between the decision-making body and the appeal body that this gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1489	Yes, then I'm going to be a third party saying that in 2010 there was agreement between all the Member States on the UN Convention on Biological Diversity: a new ten-year strategic plan for international and national efforts to save biodiversity. One of the main tools agreed upon was the Nagoya Protocol – on fair access to genetic resources – that we will adopt today. And then we're the first country to ratify the agreement. Ensuring fair use of genetic resources is important for biodiversity, because it is about obtaining the consent of indigenous or local communities through the use of traditional knowledge, so that large participations cannot enter and supply themselves and monopolise genetic material. Fair sharing of the benefits of genetic resources is important in order to provide a basis for an interest in preserving biodiversity. In the case of exploitation carried out in a country other than the country of origin, and the legislation of the country of which the indigenous or local community is involved so requires, it is necessary to ensure that an agreement is reached on the exploitation of knowledge. Furthermore, the Protocol requires action to be taken and calls for action, where it is not complied with. The reason for this is that most of the world’s genetic resources are found in developing countries, while mainly in the countries that have the technology and the economic resources to make use of genetic material, e.g. related to medicine, in which there is a lot of money. The Nagoya Protocol goes beyond the Natural Diversity Act. The Nature Diversity Act does not cover how to respect the rights of indigenous peoples or communities or how to obtain a fair distribution of the goods through the use of genetic material. That is why there is also a need to amend the Nature Diversity Act, so that we get a prescription shelter that supports the Nagoya Protocol, and which SV of course strongly supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1500	In things like these, there'll be a lot of repetition. I'll try to limit it, but just say that the Centre Party is fully behind the case-speaker's description in his main post. The Nagoya Protocol is important, and it is important that, as a country, we are driving the protocol to be ratified, which is what we are, now that we are first in the country group – if one is going to use it further – to deal with it. This is about international solidarity for indigenous groups, communities and countries — often poor countries — which have experienced that their genetic resources have only made people richer in rich countries. So it's about justice, respect for other people's resources and their knowledge, and self-imposed limitations to ensure that those who come after us can say with certainty that we did not create our wealth at the expense of others, and that everyone around our globe has the opportunity to develop their resources – and their knowledge – related to genetic material.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1509	As has been said a few times from now on, the Nagoya Protocol was ratified on 29 October 2010 and adopted at the Convention on Biological Diversity in Nagoya, Japan. In the negotiations on the Nagoya Protocol, Norway had an important bridge builder role between Iceland and the developing world. When Norway soon ratifys the Nagoya Protocol, we contribute to a fairer distribution of benefits from the use of genetic resources in the world and to the adoption of the Nagoya Protocol by 2015. A change in the laws of nature is necessary for ratification. This change applies to a new repository of traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources developed, transferred and preserved by indigenous or local communities. Such knowledge may, for example: are traditional knowledge of the active substance in a plant. Such knowledge is closely related to nature and important to take care of also through legal rules. The directory does not have a legal effect. It is necessary to create a model that must be about clarifying what is meant by the re-examined traditional knowledge, indigenous population and community. It is also necessary to make thorough and expedient limitations to the exploitation of the type of knowledge that can be said to be right to the Community. The former will relate only to the exploitation of knowledge in Norway. Other changes in natural disasters relate to the rules on protection areas and their administration. The proposal includes, inter alia: clarification of the rules on protection of protected sites in general and protection of protected areas in particular. It is also proposed to amend the possibility of delegating the competence to make minor changes to the rights of protection and to clarify the State's right of appeal. The outdoor loft is proposed to correct an error that occurred when changing the outdoor loft in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1524	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Six, seven, eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1538	I see that in the gallery it's arrived what might be a school class. I guess they haven't come of special interest in this GGGI case. GGG does not represent the Good Book of Gyldendal, with which I grew up, but it stands for the Global Green Growth Institute, and we are now going to ratify an agreement on the establishment of this Institute. I assume that there will be no heated debate on this either, because it is a unanimous committee that writes in the remarks that they share the ministry's wish that Norway should be a driving force for greener development – not only in Norway but throughout the world. The Committee considers that Norway could be an important bridge builder between different groups of countries in international processes. We are already engaged in the work on the green economy through support for the UN Environment Programme, the OECD Green Growth Strategy, not to mention the Energy Pluss Climate and Forest Initiative. This and the GGG Institute are just an initiative in which Norway can cooperate with developing countries, as it follows from the UNFCCC that Member States should develop national low-carbon strategies. It also applies to developing countries, and the Committee believes that the GGG Institute is a strategic partner in this work. The matter has been brought before the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, and they have the same attitude as us, namely that we should ratify the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1549	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1563	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1572	Prop. 78 L is the last case that is a direct consequence of the church agreement concluded by the parties at Stortinget on 10 April 2008. One prerequisite of that agreement was the establishment of ‘real choices, increased use of direct elections and church elections at the same time as public elections’. This work, often referred to as the reform of democracy, has led to extensive work within the Church, and electoral arrangements have been tested in recent church elections. It must be said that not all attempts have been equally successful, but important lessons have been taken into account in new trials. The necessary constitutional changes that followed the church settlement were dealt with on 21 May last year. Today, we are dealing with the necessary changes to the church law relating to the electoral system of the church bodies themselves – changes to facilitate the Church's proper functioning, good and democratic electoral system. The biggest change in the government's proposal is enough to expand the number of playful members of the diocese councils from four to seven. Furthermore, it is proposed that at least four of these should be chosen by direct elections. The number of directly elected members, and whether it is good democracy to have members appointed by the Soccer Councils, has probably been the change that has created the most debate. The Committee endorses the proposal on the subject and the Church meeting has recommended the proposals. In its discussions on further work on the reform of democracy in the Church, the church meeting has also proposed that each Council of Bishops should be able to decide on the number of members to be directly elected in elections to the Council of Bishops. On my own account, I would add that when democratically elected members of a parish council choose missions to the church meeting, I cannot understand that this can be considered undemocratic. The Government further proposes that church elections be held in close proximity to and at the same time as elections to the Grand Duchy or the county council and the local council, that the church meeting be extended by one member elected in accordance with the detailed rules laid down by the Church meeting, and that the church meeting be able to make attempts at two-year electoral periods and extended direct elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops if they so wish. A single committee is in agreement with all the proposals. The proposals in this case are essentially a continuation of what has been carried out in recent church elections. In addition to the proposals made by the government, a unanimous committee has proposed that the 15-year voting system be made permanent by the election of the church – this being in view of the fact that the system has been implemented as an attempt throughout the country at the last two church elections, and that 15 years is considered to be the age of religious authority. This year's church meeting in Kristiansand recommended that this be made a permanent arrangement, and the committee believes it is natural to make this change when we now have the law of treatment. The 2008 Church Agreement has a time limit — the agreement expires on the current ageing period. It is therefore good that we complete and legislate on this issue the main elements of democratic reform. So today, we are writing the last chapter in a comprehensive conversion for the Norwegian Church, at least the last chapter related to the agreement in the agreement. I record that the Church members at the Church Meeting have been very committed to the further development of democracy in the Church. It was exciting to follow that commitment in several debates at this year's church meeting, and several participants I spoke to there were clear that the church meeting had got a new nerve and increased commitment. It promises well for the continuation, and I am delighted to follow the Church in the development of arrangements that give its members an experience of an open and genuine democracy within the Church. So this is the last chapter. The last verse is probably the second reading of the legislative changes. I would like to thank the Committee, and in particular the church-political spokespersons, for good dialogue and good cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1591	A new stage in the history of the church settlement has now been completed, namely what framework Stortinget lays for the Church to evolve as a democracy. I would like to commend the rapporteur, Mr Harberg, for a good job, in close contact with all the parties involved. I also think that the Committee has managed the follow-up to the broad agreement in a smooth manner. I would also like to thank the Council of State Aasrud for very good cooperation. In addition, there has been a good and tidy process and dialogue with the Church Council, so I want to thank everyone for good cooperation. The rapporteur, Mr Harberg, has given a good review of the substance of the matter. That's why I'm going to talk a little bit more generally about this with democracy and democracy in the Church. Democracy is so much more than what is in a law. Developing a democracy is a journey that never ends. Developing a democracy is creating and maintaining a culture where respect and tolerance are undisputed values within a common understanding of the framework and rules when disagreement occurs. Living in a democracy is a constant challenge in the balance between participation, participation, transparency and action. Voting rights are not enough. Formal provisions on the exercise of power are not enough. Having democratic structures in place is not enough. Democracy in Norway was not fully developed on 17 May 1814, although the men behind me had good reason to be satisfied with the standards of that time. Democracy and equality were also not in place on 11 June 1913, 100 years ago, when all Norwegian women were formally given the right to vote. The institutions are very important, but they're not enough. Today we adopt the institutional of the Church's democracy. The rapporteur has prepared this well, and I am pleased with the seriousness and commitment we have seen in the Church about the question. My impression is that the debate has been open and with a ceiling height, but it will always be those who would see the process and the result somewhat differently. But that's also democracy: that someone doesn't get what they want. Yes, most of the time it is that no one gets what they want, at least not exactly as they want. It has to be negotiated, it has to be girlish, and it has to be adjusted in order to achieve the goal of calling the process democratic. Politics is the art of possibility, and that art was practiced in the last great period by those who then negotiated the church settlement. I will commend the ability and the will of all those who contributed to the reconciliation becoming a reality. I'm convinced that this was a right step to take, and that increased self-determination leads to more commitment. Because that's what we're all hoping for: that what we're going to adopt today is going to provide an even better basis for participation and involvement in church issues from the Church's own members. It will at times be demanding, because the Church has to experience open disunity to a greater extent than it has been used to. There will also be some unpleasant and difficult questions that we politicians have dealt with, but that will now be in prison on the Church itself, not with us. Nevertheless: I am convinced that this will go well: that the Church, as we know it in Norway, will still have a central place in many communities, that the Church will be open to all, and that engagement will increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1614	Firstly, I would like to thank you for a good review of the rapporteur. With the decisions we are making today, we have come to terms with the church settlement. The Church Agreement has brought about changes in the Constitution to meet the Norwegian Church as an independent religious community. Changes have also been made to the Funeral Act and the Church Act to meet the reconciliation. The Progress Party will be grateful for the cooperation, both with the political parties and with the selection that has worked on the matter. The party of progress will also thank and praise the Church's bodies, which have been very constructive and solution-oriented in their efforts to achieve the church settlement. Today, there is an adjustment to the Church's electoral system that is on the agenda. The majority previously decided that church elections should be made as a preference, which is the electoral system that gives the individual the most pronunciation for their vote. But the scheme was, as we know, too little known among the voters, which led to the rejection of up to 30 000 votes. As a result, both the Church and all the political parties saw the need to adjust the electoral system to meet the settlement. For the Advance Party, it is of great importance that the Church Meeting be given the opportunity to evaluate, adjust and test arrangements within the framework provided by the Storting. The church meeting has also given its approval to the legislative changes, which indicate that they are satisfied with the changes. Debates and decisions taken at the Church Meeting show – as was also the case-rapporteur – that the Church has been committed to ensuring a genuine democracy, both in the preparation and implementation of future church elections. The Church meeting of the year has also reduced the number of members required to make electoral lists. The party of progress seems to be showing that the Church is following democracy in a good way. The Progress Party agrees with the proposals in the case and believes that these are fully in line with the agreement. For my part, I seem to have registered that the Church has become more active and clearer in the open room on several different themes – even in themes where there is disagreement within the Church. Although I as a member of the church do not always agree with what is claimed, I think it is actually positive for the Church, and that it shows democracy in practice. The Progress Party looks at the Christian cultural heritage, Western values and the distinction between religion and politics as fundamental in Norwegian society. Freedom of religion is a fundamental right of the individual. All religious communities should be independent and self-directed in their form of work, organisation and ministry, provided that this does not lead to infringement or abuse of fellow humans or to an invitation to acts that violate Norwegian law and regulation. The Progress Party believes that both society, the Church and the State are best served by a distinction between church and state, as a politically governed church may also lose its necessary legitimacy. With the realization of the church settlement, the Church has gained a somewhat more freer position as a religious community. The party looks forward to a new church settlement that gives the Norwegian Church full and complete freedom, in line with other religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1642	Let me, like the others, say that I am happy today that we have come to the end of the great work that was started in the last growing-up period. Let me also, like others, praise the work done in Stortinget in the previous period, when you laid the foundation for what was called the Church Agreement. In my opinion, the work was done there, some of the finest one can see from the bulk work. You don't necessarily get the attention you think you deserve when you've managed to work across the partitions to find common good solutions, which I think the church settlement is a good example of. I am also pleased that the job that has now been done – and I would like to commend the case rapporteur for it – has been completed in the same spirit. It has been a good and smooth treatment, and we have now set the framework for what should be the electoral system in the Norwegian People's Church. Democracy is an important part of the Norwegian People's Church, and the framework we are now laying down means that democracy is to be formed. However, I would say that what we are presenting now is not a guarantee that it will succeed. There is a lot of work to be done further. It's demanding to create a living debate out there, we see that. We who are wondering whether we should vote or not in a council election are suffering a lot of pain. I think one of the most fundamental things for more people to vote for is that the living debate that is going on in the Church, whether it is about family policy issues or issues related to caring for creation, environmental issues, is also being brought to life at local level, so that it is clearer to those of us who vote, what and who we vote for, and what they stand for. I read the signals from the Church meeting there that you want a more lively debate, and I agree with the previous speaker, who said that perhaps you have already registered a little more active church. I'm very pleased with the commitment, especially the ethical commitment around the overall environmental issues that the Church meeting has raised with weight this year. So with this, I would say that we are happy to be able to support the proposals for change that are here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1659	The changes in the Church Act are a direct consequence of changes in the Constitution that were adopted last year and that change authority and ties between the Church and the State. The transfer of authority shall be followed up by rules on electoral arrangements to ecclesiastical bodies in the Norwegian Church. It was a prerequisite for the church settlement that a democracy reform was carried out in the Norwegian Church that would give the members of the Church greater influence. The matter we have to deal with today, if we had followed the church agreement to the point and the point, would already have been in place when the constitutional changes were adopted last year. We didn't. The evaluation of the previous two church elections showed that the electoral system of preference did not function satisfactorily. It did not work well enough in 2009, and it actually worked worse in 2011. Let me briefly recapitulate: the selection scheme failed on several points. For the 2009 Joint Council, there were excess candidates, i.e. real choice between several candidates, in only 48 pst. by the churches, in 2011 in 42 p.m. by the congregations. For voters' choices, this is clearly a significant weakness in church elections, and developments have gone in the wrong direction during the two election periods. Lack of real choice was greatest for the Episcopal Council. The most obvious weakness was the high proportion of rejected votes in the Bishops' Council, a total of 9.2 p.m. The choice of preferences was difficult to understand, and the result was that over 30 000 votes were rejected. With reference to the majority comment in the vote, let me stress, for the sake of order, that the Central Party has never claimed that democracy reform should be measured on the basis of a quantitative objective of electoral participation. It's the results of the sum that bother us, which makes us critical. So this is the premise and the back cover to deal with the changes in the law on electoral arrangements in the Norwegian Church. The Party agrees that the proposals submitted are a step in the right direction in giving greater legitimacy to church members and to church bodies. But we believe that the proposals do not go far enough to secure the grassroots in the Church direct influence. The Central Party considers that all the seven playful representatives to be elected to the Councils of Bishops should be chosen directly. We believe direct elections give church members the greatest influence on the composition of the diocese councils. This is particularly important, since the composition of the episcopal councils in the future will be of greater importance. Following the abolition of the Council of Churches, the Councils of Bishops are now to be empowered to appoint prosthetics. The members of the Episcopal Councils are also, by virtue of being delegates to the Church Meeting, those who elect the members of the Council of Churches, who are again the body to appoint bishops. A system of indirect elections to the majority of the playful members of the Episcopal Councils means that the power to elect members of the Bishops' Council and church delegates is added to the councils. We must admit that there have been no current church meetings that have been most important when choosing members of the councils. There's the local stuff and getting access to people that you know will do a good job, that's in focus. In the Center Party we are particularly concerned about this, since it is the Church Council that is now to be the employment body of the bishops. For us, it is therefore essential that the vote behind the body to appoint the top leaders of the Church reflects and maintains the breadth of the church members. The Central Party believes that a system that opens up indirect elections does not adequately guarantee voters clear choices on church policy issues, as the democratic reform presupposes. Let me point out the following: In the Storting's request last year, one asked in the setting that: ‘The government maintains close contact with church bodies and the settlement partners in this work in order to arrive at the electoral system under which the future elections will be held’. This request does not imply that the Church should be given a blank authorisation in the design of new electoral rules. For the Central Party, it has been important in this case to ensure an electoral system that we believe is best suited to an open church. In order to maintain broad membership of the Church and to continue the tradition with what the members experience as their people's churches, it is essential to ensure the breadth of the Church, as the state church system has so far arranged. The Central Party therefore considers that members must have the opportunity to make choices between different alternatives. This means that we believe that voters must be able to make their own lists if they are not known through the nomination committee's list. We believe this will also revitalize church democracy, and therefore believe that proportional elections should be legalized as the general rule of the ecclesiastical elections. I refer to the distributed proposal and promote it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1702	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1705	A people's church cannot be guaranteed by laws and decisions. It can only be secured through good and close relations between the Church and its people. It is strange to stand here and sing the last verse, as the case-rapporteur said. I was one of those who were allowed to join in and negotiate the Church Agreement, and I am the only one who has been able to follow it all the way – until the last verse is to be sung. It was also strange when the first bishop who was appointed after the new state church settlement and the new constitutional changes was appointed in my own diocese. And indeed the first Church meeting was held in my home town of Kristiansand. It feels great. I think the most joyous part of it all is to see a church that feels inspired and takes this seriously and a responsibility that I thought was funny to hear, when we heard the first church meeting's general debate in Kristiansand in our spring. Through the discussion of the reform of democracy and the whole of the Church Agreement, we have given the Church many challenges. There was nothing that fit between the Church's rhythms and its meetings and the state and the Stortinget and the government's plans. I remember, for example. that we had to get a deal in port before Trond Bakkevig and his selection, who was sitting and working with democracy in the Norwegian Church, got his position delivered. We had to have the sample inside, and we had to ask if they could be a little prophets and predict where they were going to land – and they contributed. In addition, we remember that we had extremely short time to make the first elections in 2009. I remember giving praise to the Church at the time for how they managed in a short time to establish a completely different and much more demanding arrangement than they had before. They took the problem, and they did it seriously. The evaluation at the time showed that for the democratic reform, which had three quite clear criteria, two of them were fully met and the last part. What was about church elections at the same time as public elections was easy to measure, and it was possible. Then there was a point that was about increasing the use of direct choices. There is only session use. It's deliberately formulated. That's not a point that says we're going to have direct choices. Increased use of direct selection was authorised by the KIFO report as implemented after the 2009 choice. And then you talk about that there's still something that's left over. It's not a complete failure, but it's something that remains in relation to real choices. And then we did a pretty rough recording lately, and in the light of that, the Church changed its way of arranging it -- with the lack of success that it gave. Here I believe that also we in this house must be involved and take some of the blame, for it was part of our objections that led to the changes that were causing trouble in that election. Now we see that a good job has been done by the government to put forward. There the government had to show the cards and put them on the table before the Church meeting had been allowed to make their recordings. I also want to thank the Council of State, Rigmor Aasrud, for that way of doing it. Both the dryness of showing cards and letting it go at the Church Meeting show a respect for church democracy that the Christian People's Party appreciates. Now the Church meeting has given its input, and we've got it in place. Then I think it's great that the Stortinget listens to church democracy and takes into consideration what the case rapporteur said, namely to give 15-year-olds the right to vote in church elections. It's incredibly important that what church democracy is now hearing is that it's their decision and that it's helping to influence matters further. We think that this also helps to give a clear signal to all those who participate in church democracy. Now it must be "globble" against its own democracy and not against this house any more. The further road is important. The Church must become its own legal entity. A living religious community needs funding, and most importantly, we need a wide religious education reform, so that the people's Church continues to be a people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1726	The proposal for amendments to the church law that Stortinget is dealing with today is the cornerstone of a long-standing political cooperation project. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the parties at Stortinget for their good cooperation in the reform of the church constitution. The basis for this cooperation was, as is well known, attached to the 2008 Church Agreement and to the treatment of St. gemeld by the Stortinges. No 17 for 2007-2008 on the State and the Norwegian Church. The political agreement was an expression of a common political will to maintain the Norwegian Church as an open, nationwide and democratically structured church, and it expressed a desire to provide the Church with a good and robust constitutional basis for necessary administrative reforms in the future. The 2008 agreement provided for a follow-up through several phases — in church bodies, in departments and in large numbers. I am pleased that good processes have resulted in a great deal of consensus on the many road choices that have been made along the way and on the main direction of further work. Without good cooperation, it would not be possible to get to where we are today. It is now three years in a row that the Stortinge deals with proposals for changes in church law. In the spring of 2011, amendments to the Tombs Act were adopted so that the needs of minorities in the context of burial can be better addressed. At the same time, the church law was changed on a few but important points. Later, the ministry has also made adjustments to the burial regulation. In the spring of 2012, Stortinget was informed about the implemented democracy reform and made changes to all seven constitutional paragraphs on the state church system. At the same time, adjustments were made to the church law that were necessary as a result of the constitutional changes. These changes led to church bodies being able to add bishops and prosthetics. The system of church councils and the King as church government was terminated with this. When Stortinget now deals with the legal regulation of the Church's electoral systems in 2013, it also means that the main elements of democratic reform are legalised. All the assumptions of the church settlement, including the point that it is intended to facilitate increased use of direct elections, are thus considered to be met by the state within the time limits set by the agreement. We are today at the conclusion not only of an important constitutional reform, but also of a new beginning in terms of administrative reforms in the Church. There is now a good basis for the further development of the relationship between the State and the Church. Once the constitutional reform of the Church Agreement has been implemented, an administrative reform on the organisation, financial management and management of the Church awaits. I have been talking for a long time about a step-by-step approach to proposals for changes to the Church's arrangements. This affects relationships that are deep in many, including those that are not very religiously active. These changes may have long-term consequences that are difficult to understand. People must have security for continuity in this area. Members shall not experience that the Church is taken from them. In the ongoing work on the Church's framework and arrangements, it is also important to have broad political and church outreach on proposals for changes. I believe that it will now primarily be the Church meeting which must show direction and take initiatives further. At the same time, the Ministry of the Church continues the continuous development work that has gradually and over many years led to greater church autonomy. The Church must be experienced as close, relevant and accessible by its members. Therefore, they must be emboldened, held responsible for, and made decisions about their church. I therefore expect the Church not to end the democratic reform with the changes in the rules adopted by the Stortinget and, later, the Church meeting. Developing church democracy is a continuous work. Questions of which there must be disagreement in the Church must be handled in a good and democratic manner by the Church's own bodies. The bodies of the Church must have sufficient legitimacy to act on behalf of the Church. The life and life experience of ordinary people must be part of the Church's activities and manner of being. That is why democracy must be built from below. This is, as I see it, the overall aim of the work of church democracy and of the changes in law that the Storting is now being invited to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1754	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1761	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1791	The left has announced that they want to vote against. The voting boards showed that 79 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 1 representative voted against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.29.09]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1800	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1805	The representative was incorrect?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1808	Yeah, it went a little fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1813	Let's do the voting one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1830	During the debate Nikolai Astrup has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 29 June No. 50 on the production, transformation, transmission, turnover, distribution and use of energy, etc. is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1952	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on section 4-2 of I and the proposal of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1967	It is then voted over the other paragraphs of paragraphs I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1977	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1987	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e1995	During the debate, Bjørn Lødemel has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 21 June 1996 38 in the case of state-owned natural resources: § 2 is replaced by the following: § 2 Duties of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board shall monitor that the provisions given in or in accordance with Law 1 of 28 June 1957 No. 16 on outdoor life, 2nd law 19 June 2009 nr. 100 on the management of natural diversity [[selected habitat types]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2037	The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right is an alternative to § 2 of the suspension and the same parties have notified that they wish to vote against § 3. Therefore, there is an alternative vote between the vote as a whole and the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2183	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2197	The legislative decision will be taken up to the second time voting in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2205	During the debate, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote during 2013 a key message on the government’s environmental policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2211	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2219	The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2236	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-23, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-23, from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up aid schemes for the construction of forest highways, operation in difficult terrain and the planting of foreign wood.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The government is requesting the entire tax code for Norwegian petroleum industry, including exploration and seismics, in order to propose the removal of environmentally harmful subsidisation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the government to phase out environmental pollutants in products in line with the recommendations of the Committee on the Environment.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to introduce measures, labelling and traceability requirements, limiting the use of palm oil from rainforest areas.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision requires the government to assess the implementation of the notification obligation at the highest level.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to pay attention to the obligations of the EU Water Directive in the case of conditional audits for built-up watercourses.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for mandatory national guidelines on sub-plans for renewable energy development, so that the natural values are identified and not built in areas with the most vulnerable nature.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to introduce a ban on petroleum activity in particularly productive sea areas and/or in areas with highly vulnerable marine flora and/or fauna.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a ban on trawls and snorpenot in vulnerable fjords, including all areas that may have cold-water coral reefs and significant areas of fungus communities and marine feather colonies against active jets and snorkelling.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase support for conversion to organic farming and farming unless fertilisers are used in agriculture.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose an improved law on soil protection.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to increase Norwegian aid for organic and other sustainable agriculture in line with the recommendations of the IAASTD and the UN Special Rapporteur for the Right to Food.’ [[International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up regulations regulating the introduction and introduction of foreign wood species and the release of introduced organisms, which ensure that potentially hazardous species become illegal for release or use.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a blacklist of species that are naturally found in parts of the country but which are nevertheless to be considered organically alien and undesirable in other parts of the country.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the prohibition of maritime landfill from mining activities.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The size asks the government to secure 10 pst. the protection of the productive forest as reserves and national parks by 2020 through a targeted forest protection escalation plan up to 2020.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to update the red list for endangered and extinct species every five years.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a joint management agreement between Norway, Sweden and Finland to ensure viable populations of the four major predators, both in Norway and the Nordic region.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norwegian assistance supports the possibility of developing under the recipient countries to fulfil their obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity, including the special rights of indigenous peoples to participation and traditional knowledge.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking to prevent climate action that harms natural diversity.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to deliver a national action plan, which Norway is obliged to draw up under the Convention on Biological Diversity, by 2015 and to incorporate as a minimum all known deviations from the international objectives.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to build up the Art Database further and to increase basic research on species and habitat types through new red lists and blacklists.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish a support scheme for developing countries that will put in place concrete measures to fulfil its obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2482	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2492	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2548	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2558	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2599	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 23, first paragraph, point (d) shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2706	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2716	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-07.ana.ud1185e2728	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
