ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e121	The called alternate of the Vest-Agder County, Kjell Ivar Larsen, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative Karin Andersen from 4 June onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative Per Arne Olsen from 4 June onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Hedmark County Frøydis Elisabeth Sund and for Vestfold County Morten Stordalen, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e157	Morten Stordalen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e162	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself, I would like to propose the modernisation of the one-off car charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e167	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e181	Next year, ISAF will end its efforts in Afghanistan, after 13 years in the country. Then the Afghans take full control of their own country and their future. That's right and natural. Our goal has always been to make our own presence superfluous. Although a number of challenges remain, normalisation takes place at a good time. The Afghans want the transition and have prepared for it. The international community is also ready for the pace shift it involves. For let it be clear: The International Military Stabilisation Force, ISAF – with a clear anchor in the UN Security Council – will have carried out its main mission in 2014. Afghanistan is no longer an arena for international terrorism. The Stabilisation Team has helped to lay the foundations for better development, in line with the wishes of the Afghans. Although the road has been long and demanding, and perhaps more demanding than many had thought, we can look back on an effort that has been respected. The original intervention in Afghanistan in 2001 was directed by a broad international coalition, in which we participated. Half the year after, from August 2003, NATO was given a special responsibility. The UN Security Council decided that ISAF should be subject to the political control and command apparatus of NATO. From an early beginning in and around Kabul, ISAF operated from 2006 across Afghanistan. The mission has cost many soldiers their lives and has been demanding for those who have left, as well as for relatives, civilians and authorities. I would like to highlight all the Norwegian women and men who have travelled out on behalf of Norway. Over 8,300 Norwegian soldiers have made an effort they can be proud of. Someone didn't come home alive. We especially remember those who have carried the heaviest should by all. Ten Norwegian soldiers have lost their lives in the fight for a more peaceful Afghanistan and for international peace and security. Others are marked for life, physical or mental. I would also like to thank the many civil organisations, our police, aid workers and foreign service staff and all those who have contributed to a better future for Afghanistan and for the Afghan people. Together, we have shown that we take responsibility – that we take our joint responsibility for international peace and security. Our military mission in Faryab was completed last October, the ISAF operation goes as mentioned at the end, but our commitment to Afghanistan is still in place. Like many other countries, we have committed ourselves to long-term cooperation. The main task in the future will be to strengthen social and economic development – a fundamental prerequisite for stability in the country. Here the Afghan Government has a special responsibility. The same is true of the United Nations as an active support player. The UN must therefore continue to be prominent, and from the Norwegian side we will support the further work of UNAMA, the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. This role is even more important after ISAF's withdrawal from Afghanistan. President Karzai and Prime Minister Stoltenberg signed a strategic partnership agreement between our two countries when the President visited Norway on 5 February this year. The agreement is valid for five years and is based on mutual commitments. It draws up the overall framework for Norway's further efforts and makes clear demands on the Afghan Government. Without prejudice to the consent of Stortinget, Norway will maintain an annual aid of 750 million. until 2017. In particular, the Afghan authorities commit themselves to strengthening efforts for human rights, women's rights, good governance and anti-corruption. The Agreement is consistent with the General International Basis for Cooperation with Afghanistan. 2012 was the year for major summits on Afghanistan’s further road: in Chicago, Kabul and Tokyo, the framework for cooperation between the international community and Afghanistan was laid out the transition period and in the following years. We are now in the process of consolidation and implementation in 2013. The next major roadshed in Afghanistan will be the presidential elections and the closure of the ISAF operation in 2014. Let me give you a more detailed assessment of the safety situation. During the 2010 NATO summit in Lisbon, the ISAF countries and the Afghan Government adopted a gradual transfer of security responsibilities towards the conclusion of the ISAF operation in 2014. Some, including myself, then asked questions as to whether it was right to set such an end date, without being sure that the Afghans were really ready to take over the responsibility. We can now see that setting such an end date was a correct decision. This created a new dynamic with more positive consequences, both in Afghanistan and in the international community. For Afghanistan, it helped to make sure that the day would come when the authorities were again mastered in their own house. They would get responsibility, but they would also have to prepare to take responsibility, as they have always wanted. This has therefore had a disciplining effect on political Afghanistan. At the same time, efforts were made to build up the Afghan security forces. The quality of these forces we can now say we are satisfied with. Of course, Afghan security forces will not have a military organisation or an impact force that is fully equivalent to what a single ISAF has been able to do in terms of technology, equipment and resources. But the Afghan security forces can compensate for this by being Afghan and by knowing their own country and culture. They should not withdraw again in the future, as everyone knew that ISAF was going to one day. In the important transition phase we are now in, it is important that the benefits of the local anchoring are fully exploited to compensate for the loss of the specific capacities associated with ISAF. The decision to move towards 2014 has also been useful for NATO and the rest of the international community. It has provided a planning horizon both for the alliance itself and for the individual contributing countries. I would venture the claim that without a defined time horizon, in many countries we would have seen a failing willingness to set up the last few years as well as a much more fragmented ISAF effort than the one we have actually received. In other words, the establishment towards 2014 has also had an internal pooling and disciplining effect among ISAF contributors. A major international operation such as that in Afghanistan must start and end. It is in the nature of the matter that the beginning usually comes quite abruptly. The more important it is that you have a clear strategic grip on the end. There is no doubt that both the political landscape and the security situation in Afghanistan are complex. The country has a high level of conflict and will hardly experience real peace in the near future in the normal sense. We see major challenges, but we also see positive developments. Let me mention some of these: Firstly, Afghan forces are taking responsibility for security throughout the country during these days. This is a major and important step in the right direction and absolutely necessary to ensure lasting stability. Secondly, when the international community entered Afghanistan in 2001, the country had enough warlords, but no national security forces. Now some 334,000 armed women and men are at the disposal of the elected government. It will increase to 352,000 by the end of 2013. Thirdly, the transition actually seems to work. Good experience has led to more speeding up the transition process. NATO and the long-term support and training of Afghan security forces by NATO partners deliver results. The ISAF forces will continue to provide support until the end of next year and will concentrate mainly on counselling and training. At the same time, the contribution of the ISAF countries is gradually reduced. President Obama announced in February that the United States will reduce its presence from today's approximately 68 000 soldiers to 34 000 by February 2014. There's nothing dramatic about this. On the contrary, there is a logical consequence that the transition progresses faster than originally planned. A successful transfer of security responsibilities will continue to require capacity building. That is precisely why we focus our efforts on counselling and training for Afghan police and special forces. Our contributions are highly sought after and highly prioritised by both NATO and Afghan authorities. The international community has also committed itself to modernising and co-funding the Afghan army in the coming years. Norway will contribute 60 million. kr annually for the period 2015-2017, once again subject to the Storting’s budgetary agreement. Military support such as this is not part of the aid budget, as it cannot be reported under the ODA Code. This military support therefore comes in addition to financial support to Afghan police, which is within the annual civil assistance of 750 million. kr, as mentioned above. ISAF has been unique in scope and legitimacy. Over 50 countries have contributed. The operation has had a solid basis for international law in a Chapter VII mandate which is unanimously renewed by the UN Security Council each year. In future planning, NATO emphasises the long-term nature of the partnership with Afghanistan. The establishment of a training and training leave after the completion of ISAF is now under way. This is going to be a completely different type of operation than ISAF and much less on both scale and level of ambition. NATO forces shall continue the advice and training of Afghan soldiers, but shall not participate in any combat actions. Until the end of ISAF, Norway will mainly continue the strength contribution we already have, with gradual reduction and further concentration in the Kabul area. For I would like to emphasise: we stand by our commitments to Afghanistan, our support for the work of the United Nations in the country and our collective responsibility in NATO. Norwegian efforts in the Faryab province have produced results. At the request of NATO, we withdrew our forces from Faryab on 1 October 2012. I even marked the end of our eight years in Faryab in a ceremony in Meymaneh in September 2012, then as Minister of Defence. The Norwegian camp, Camp Meymaneh, was transferred to the Afghan army. Both ISAF and the Afghan authorities considered the Afghan security forces fit to discharge this responsibility. Norwegian efforts were a crucial prerequisite for this assessment. In time, both security forces and authorities have shown that they can address challenges in the province. The withdrawal from Faryab resulted in a reduction in the Norwegian contribution to Afghanistan in general. From 2013 onwards, the facility for the overall Norwegian military effort is advice and training of Afghan police in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif. Neither in Faryab did the skeptics' predictions of a rapid breakdown after our extraction. On the contrary, the impression is that Afghan authorities and security structures have been relatively well prepared and that they are able to ensure the security of the province, as we hoped and believed. Our soldiers and all the other personnel who have served in Faryab have a substantial share of the credit for this. It was also quite as expected that the Taliban and other rebel groups would test the Afghan security forces and political structures as soon as a new province was transferred to Afghan leadership. The Taliban’s strategic message to the population is that the local authorities were only directing the mercy of foreigners. Such dynamics prevail in these days in Faryab, as we have also seen in other parts of the country. Therefore, the period immediately after the transfer of security responsibilities is particularly important and sometimes quite demanding. We would have had other challenges like this, whether we pulled out a year before or a year later. Afghan security forces are opposed to the pressure, but at the same time there is reason to believe that the security situation will remain demanding through what is often referred to as the battle season in Afghanistan. So we should be prepared for new estimates from the Taliban and other rebel groups in months to come. Much of the pressure comes from exactly the same areas where we also had the biggest challenges in the time ISAF and we had the main responsibility in Faryab. Despite a demanding safety situation, Faryab sees significant progress in education, health and infrastructure. Meymaneh City has become a dynamic economic centre, now also with stable electricity supply, which is by no means a matter of course in Afghanistan. Through my total ten visits to the country over these years, I myself have witnessed a formidable development. Norwegian assistance to Faryab goes through the UN, through the World Bank’s support for government programmes and through non-governmental organisations. The World Bank finances the construction of schools, education, the remuneration of teachers and infrastructure projects. The development of local organisations helps to build good governance from the outset. Voluntary organisations do excellent work in rural development, good governance and education. They reach out to remote communities, successfully develop competences by local authorities and contribute to strengthening women’s position. In Afghanistan, much of the international effort has been driven by short-term military needs, known as quick fix projects. This has led to many of the money being distributed on a very large number of small projects, with very limited follow-up in retrospect. We believe that using professional aid channels, as we have done in Faryab, has been much more able to ensure the sustainability of our aid efforts – this because the development needs of the province have been governing rather than military goals or tactical needs for reputation or information. This approach is also supported by well-run studies, among others. conducted at Tufts University in the United States and by the US Special Representative for Reconstruction in Afghanistan. They have concluded that many of these short-term projects have neither had a positive impact on safety nor contributed to long-term development. At times, these short-term projects have, rather, led to increased corruption and contributed to increased fragmentation. The significant Norwegian civil assistance to Faryab in recent years has provided concrete results and a better basis for many people. According to the provincial governor, half a million people have benefited directly from Norwegian civil assistance to the region. Here are some examples of it: Access to clean water and health businesses has been facilitated — providing better public health and hygiene. Agricultural production and incomes of farmers in the project areas have increased. People are given easier access to guidance services and e.g. veterinary services. Artificial irrigation allows farmers to increase production to not only one but two crops in the growing season in large areas. The over 100 schools built with Norwegian money are essential to prevent children from becoming illiterate, like their parents. Young people undertake literacy and vocational training and thus receive significant increases in income. Schools provide both them and the province with a completely new and necessary prerequisite for further development. Representatives of our Embassy in Kabul visited as late as a week ago as the Faryab Province. The message they received from local authorities, representatives of the opposition and non-governmental organisations was that the Norwegian military and civil support in recent years, including the Norwegian police contribution to Faryab, has had a long-term and positive impact. Of course, even with success, there are still challenges in Faryab: We see both political and ethnic rivalry. Rebellion groups remain active. Unemployment is high. Drug use is an increasing problem, as in the rest of the country. Afghan institutions need to be strengthened and local partners need to take over much of the work being done by international organisations today. That's why we're working to ensure stronger Afghan ownership and reduce the amount of parallel structures. Norway continues to want to continue its assistance work directly in Faryab for a period of time. However, the overall trend in this work is less earmarked for selected provinces. This is entirely in line with the wishes of the Afghan authorities. Let me say a little bit about the general assistance to Afghanistan, in addition to what we do in Faryab: Afghanistan remains one of the ten poorest countries in the world. One third of the population lives below the poverty line, and three quarters are illiterate. There is therefore a great need for long-term assistance. Afghanistan is today among the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid, and we are among the world's top ten aid providers to the country. At the Tokyo Conference last year, the countries committed themselves to continuing civil assistance, with a commitment of 16 billion. dollar, about $97 billion. kr, in assistance out of 2015. As mentioned earlier, Norway and many other countries have promised to continue their levels until 2017. The Afghan authorities committed themselves in return to implementing reforms in financial management and governance, to making free elections and to respecting human rights. This is set out in the follow-up plan, called the Tokyo obligations. The respect of these obligations by Afghan authorities is important not only for the Afghan people but also for the donors. The high level of assistance promised in Chicago and Tokyo will only continue if strong action is taken to combat corruption, improve justice and promote respect for human rights, especially for women. It is also essential to create a better basis for economic development and increased tax revenues. The donor countries and Afghan authorities are in close dialogue on this. In a month we will have the first major review of the Tokyo commitments in Kabul. The Afghan authorities confirm their commitment and are working towards further reforms. So far, the entire board of directors of the Tax and Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance has been replaced. Proposals for revised banking law have been transmitted to Parliament, and the VAT and money laundering laws are on the way. So we feel that the Afghan authorities are increasingly taking on board the fact that the country itself has to deliver. President Karzai was very conscious of this when he visited Norway in February this year. These obligations are also reflected in the cooperation agreement between Norway and Afghanistan. We have three strategic objectives for Norway’s future work: firstly, to contribute to strengthening Afghan institutions, so that it can take care of its own security and development. Secondly, to contribute to a political solution and strengthen regional cooperation. And thirdly, to contribute to sustainable and fair development, humanitarian action, and promote governance, human rights and equality. We also have three priority areas for assistance: education, good governance and rural development. The position and anti-corruption of women are consistently given priority in all these three areas. Norway and the international community have also committed themselves to progressively channel more of aid to Afghan budgets and in line with Afghan priorities. On 14 May, we debated here in Stortinget the need for an overall evaluation of our efforts in Afghanistan. I am pleased that there was a broad consensus in this Chamber that such an evaluation should be carried out, that it should be carried out after the ISAF mission has been completed and that it should be anchored in the Stortinget. A task as large and complex as ours in Afghanistan should definitely be subject to a thorough ex-post review, in addition to the ongoing self-evaluation that has taken place along the way. Last year we carried out an evaluation of the Norwegian aid operation over ten years. It was important and useful. The report concluded that Norway has supported under Afghan priorities and that the choice of aid channels has been in line with Norwegian priorities. At the same time, it pointed out a number of challenges in providing assistance in parallel with an ongoing armed conflict and in a politically unsolved situation like the one we see in Afghanistan. In the light of the recommendations, we are working on changes and adaptations, including: improving assistance follow-up procedures. We have launched a series of measures to ensure better control of the use of aid. We cooperate closely with other donors on the best possible follow-up and control systems. Corruption is a major problem for donors and Afghan authorities. Assistance is risky, both in terms of achievement and good governance. We know that the risk of misuse of Norwegian aid money is definitely present. This is why we have put in place many measures to reduce abuse and will continue to focus on this in the future. Over the years we have been in Afghanistan, there has been a lot of discussion about how the relationship between military, political, humanitarian and developmental efforts could best be organised. So I want to say a little bit more about my perspective on this, now that the epoch of so-called Provincial Reconstruction Teams, or PRTs, is soon behind us. The PRT model, used by ISAF in connection with the deployment of the operation into the country, did not necessarily succeed. An important explanation may be that what was first thought to be small military outposts at an initial stage grew into much larger and much more complex structures than originally thought. This further took place without the development of PRTs around the country following any overall plan. The PRT concept differs quite a lot from most other peace-building and peace-keeping operations. The concept gives individual countries contributing a significant regional responsibility far beyond the military, without necessarily possessing administrative or political institutions and resources adapted to such responsibilities. It was also quickly found that different countries interpreted this task very differently. This again led to fragmentation of international efforts and a strong tendency to prioritise short-term action rather than long-term development. In most other international operations, international communities are represented at both national and regional level through political, developmental and humanitarian organisations. Furthermore, we would normally seek to subordinate the military strategy to a comprehensive political plan. This has probably been the case mainly in Afghanistan at the overall level, but not always — with the same luck — at regional and provincial level. Some PRTs helped create parallel structures for Afghan civil leadership, thereby replacing Afghan capacities instead of building them. From the Norwegian side, from the moment we took over the management of the PRT in Faryab, we chose to set ourselves up a little different in this field than some other countries did. We focused on establishing a good overall understanding and good cooperation between all aspects of our efforts, while at the same time avoiding interrelationship between the military stabilisation mission, the humanitarian effort and the long-term development mission. At that time, we took early note of the need for a more comprehensive understanding of what a PRT should be, in the debate between the contributors to ISAF. I think we've made a lot of money on that. In Afghanistan, PRTs are now either liquidated or in the process of becoming PRTs. We see a long-term consequence of this: many of the countries that put almost all their assistance in one basket, and connected it in its entirety to their PRTs, are now striving to find suitable channels that can take the aid further in a post-PRT situation. On the Norwegian side, I think we are well able to continue constructive development cooperation, with good and competent local partners, simply because that is what we have been doing all along. I believe that we can already benefit from drawing lessons from this, for both military and civil thinking about future international stabilisation tasks. That's how we'll be better rusted if it's time to contribute something similar again. At the same time, it is important to establish that two situations are never the same. International efforts in peace-keeping or peace-building operations need to be adapted to the real needs of the society to which they are seeking assistance. Let me say a little bit more about the political situation. On 5 April next year, Presidential elections and provincial elections will be held in Afghanistan. It will be the first time in Afghan history that a peaceful presidential change can take place as a result of a democratic election. Under the Constitution, President Karzai cannot re-elect for a third period. He has clearly expressed, including to me, that he respects the constitution and thus does not make a choice again. We will continue our cooperation with a new elected president. We will also follow the electoral process very closely, because the elections next year will be a test of strength for Afghan authorities, both civil and military. This is the fifth time elections have been held in Afghanistan since 2001. We should remember that not all countries in the region have similar good democratic development. Afghanistan borders as known to Iran, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, China and Pakistan. In fact, from a regional perspective, Afghanistan has come quite far in the development of a democratic foundation for its system of governance. Norway and other donors are now seeing the results of the support we have given to the independent election commission in recent years. The number of international advisers has been significantly reduced. The Afghans take more responsibility. Afghan forces have full responsibility for the implementation of the elections. Planning has begun. The choice coincides with the extraction of ISAF and safety may prove to be demanding. I think we have to assume that not all polls can be opened, or that all voters have the opportunity to use the vote. Nevertheless, I believe that the Afghans will make a choice that reflects the public opinion. Norway plans to provide substantial support for the implementation of the choice. But as in many other areas, we have made demands on the authorities. Our support is accompanied by expressed expectations that the elections will be conducted in a good way. In addition, the Afghan people and the different ethnic groups must experience the electoral process and the outcome as credible. We are particularly concerned that more women are committed to politics, both that they vote, and that they are making choices. Developments in the field of human rights in Afghanistan are quite mixed. The starting point in 2001 was very poor. The country is still in armed conflict, and the human rights situation is clearly marked by it. The judiciary is partially corrupt, it is arbitrary arrests, and torture occurs in Afghan prisons. We therefore regularly address human rights issues at all levels, including the President. Afghanistan is still considered the world's worst country for women to live in. Nevertheless, important progress is made in education, work and social engagement. The situation for Afghanistan’s women is significantly better than it was in 2001, but Afghan girls and women still need support for many years to come. This is not least important in view of the potential for political reconciliation between formerly fighting parties in Afghanistan. There can be peace at men’s premises – men who do not necessarily see themselves served to follow the progress that has, after all, taken place. In this context, Norway has actively followed up UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. We will help Afghan women to participate in the political debate on peace and reconciliation. Norway has close cooperation with the Afghan Women's Network, which cooperates with women in local communities and helps them to engage in local conflict management. Norway and the other Nordic countries use considerable resources to strengthen civil society so that they can keep authorities responsible in the field of human rights. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press is one of the areas that has been most prosperous in the last decade. In fact, Afghanistan is a long way ahead – once again if a regional perspective is taken into account. Norway has long considered that a political solution is needed to put an end to the conflicts in Afghanistan and that a process towards a political solution must be led by the Afghans themselves. It must be inclusive and include all groups in the Afghan community – including the Taliban rebel group. We argued this too early in the conflict. At first, few people agreed to this. Gradually, most other countries have recognised the need for such a broad reconciliation process. Afghans themselves need to find solutions that they believe can work and that take into account the situation in the country, human rights and the position of women. Norway has been in favour of the initiative of President Karzai, which led to the establishment of the Afghan Peace Council. It is the body of the Afghan authorities, and it is very complex. We also believe that it would make a political process easier if the Taliban set up an office in Doha. As it looks today, the probability of a rapid political breakthrough is small. There is still little trust between the government of Karzai and the Taliban. If they get together first, it will be an important step towards a political solution. We maintain that all parties will serve to seek political solutions with each other in a process that includes all ethnic groups, women and civil society. It would be beneficial to seek political understanding before the elections, so that the elections can be conducted with the greatest possible certainty and widest possible participation. But this can take time. The selection and international extraction are not the end dates of the Afghan calendar. It is necessary that Afghans, countries in the region and the international community support policy solutions as long as necessary. Norway is in dialogue with Afghan actors on their work on policy solutions. We contribute to capacity building towards different environments, including the Peace Council, civil society and women's organisations. The humanitarian challenges in Afghanistan are also still major and complex. Natural disasters and armed conflict for a number of years lead to great suffering for the population. More than five million refugees have returned to Afghanistan, but there are still 2.7 million Afghan refugees in neighbouring countries. In addition, half a million people are internally displaced. Norway is about 130 million. kr annually in humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. In parallel with long-term aid, the government will continue this humanitarian effort. Our contributions give results. In parts of Afghanistan, polio is still not eradicated. Norwegian support for political reconciliation processes has now enabled vaccination to be carried out. This is a unique Norwegian contribution to international polio work. Our experience of seeing political dialogue, humanitarian action and global health in the context may also be useful in other conflict-affected areas where Norway is involved. At the same time, Afghanistan is one of the countries in Asia where urbanisation and modernisation are fastest. More and more people are accessing mobile phones, the Internet, radio and TV. Gross domestic product has doubled since 2001, with an annual growth of about 10 p.m., well above the average in the region. A national survey in 2012 showed that the majority experienced a clear improvement in areas related to people’s daily lives, such as school, private economy, health, food, access to goods, housing and employment. Mining has also been a great success. All of this has contributed to the fact that today's future-optimism is actually greater in Afghanistan than in many Western countries. In ten years, life expectancy has risen by 18 years. Today the country has a very young population – 75 pst. is under 25 years of age. They are increasingly being trained. There are nine million students in Afghanistan today, of which 38 are. girls. Right there's nothing less than a revolution. Regional factors are important for development and stability in Afghanistan. The neighbouring countries must be involved, and they must actively contribute to the stabilisation of the country. It is important to avoid — as in previous times — the strategic settlement of neighbouring countries taking place on Afghan soil. Norway was at an early stage of emphasising the need to understand the whole challenge as regional and not confined to Afghanistan in isolation. Therefore, as early as spring 2009, Norway took the initiative to bring the region together in an informal dialogue with a view to facilitating concrete cooperation. This led to what is now known as the Istanbul cooperation. After Norway and Turkey arranged the process towards the first ministerial meeting in Istanbul in November 2011, we have seen positive developments. It is emerging from political dialogue, regular meetings at ministerial level – not later than a month ago in Almaty, Kazakhstan – and growing practical cooperation. The government attaches great importance to continuing our profile as a support player for this process. We are willing to facilitate new informal political talks, and we contribute to practical cooperation on disaster management, education and regional infrastructure. I have pointed out that our cooperation with Afghanistan is long-term. We are working on streamlining and concentrating assistance. In the long term, the main objective must be to reduce aid dependence by stimulating increased economic activity. Afghanistan has rich natural resources, including energy. It can provide many possible future areas of cooperation. Afghanistan has become a better country for most people. It has been right to participate in the military, political and economic efforts of Afghanistan. Afghanistan is no longer the site of international terrorism. The authorities are gradually taking responsibility for safety. They increasingly provide basic services to citizens. Although there is a long way to go, the pessimists have been far better off for years. Thus, if we compare the trends with several other countries in the region, Afghanistan will come out well in many areas. No one, on the other hand, has any illusions that we are abandoning some kind of paradise in Afghanistan. But, in my opinion, scenarios of collapse and civil war are not very likely. Afghanistan is more likely to find a broad compromise between a variety of forces. It is important here that we prepare for an Afghan solution, for good and for bad. It will take the country forward – not backwards – towards real reconciliation, stability and further development. The international community will be there and support it, but in a different way. International assistance must not be too long-term. Then it can quickly become part of the problems it was put in to solve. It is important, right and timely that the Afghans take over the main responsibility. I am convinced that the timing is as good as it can be. This is also the goal of the transition and of our entire work in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e471	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on developments in Afghanistan and Norway’s involvement in the country be discussed at a subsequent meeting in the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e485	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after some speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e492	With regard to this proposal, where the proposers propose to extend the access of municipalities to social considerations in the design of property taxes, a majority of the parties in this Chamber, and a majority also in Stortinget, are prepared not to comply with this proposal – and not to adopt it. But that does not mean that we are not concerned with the issues raised by the proposers. Taking social considerations into account in the design of property taxes is important. There is also a basis for saying that municipalities probably have a greater potential for doing this than what is actually being used today. One of the reasons why we do not think it necessary to adopt this proposal is that, on both a general and an individual basis, there are opportunities to take social considerations into account when it comes to property taxes. First of all, in general, social considerations can definitely be taken into account. In particular, how this tax is designed locally — what should be included as tax items, such as: whether or not to carry residential property. The general rules in the municipalities for the deduction seem to be a social incentive to how this tax will turn out. Differentiated tax rates also contribute to the social impact of this, and not least to the way in which tariffs are applied and the reduction factors available to municipalities. So you have both a general basis for taking social considerations, and you have an individual basis in Section 28 of the Property Tax Act, which means that you have an opportunity on an individual basis to exempt – in whole or in part – when there are special reasons, especially when the property tax becomes unreasonable. Then you have the opportunity to relax the property tax or exempt the individual applying for property tax. However, this is something that can be used exceptionally, but the possibility is there as a safety valve. For this work, there is even the possibility to establish municipal guidelines on how this discretion is to be exercised, and which – as I see it as the majority’s discretion in the matter – are sufficient as an instrument for municipalities to contribute to the necessary social considerations when the property tax is to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e505	Property taxes happen randomly and unsocially and not according to tax ability. The property tax is a particularly unfair form of taxation if the tax is not related to whether one has had a return on the property or to what extent the property is borrowed. Property is taxed several times, as taxes have already been paid on the income for which the property has been acquired, as well as document taxes, inheritance taxes and, where appropriate, VAT on costs. The proposal of the Christian People's Party addresses an important issue, but it does not take the whole challenge – it only takes part of it. The Progress Party has therefore made a proposal earlier in this Chamber to remove the law on property taxes, and, as far as I remember, did not receive the support of the Christian People's Party for it. But they want to get rid of the challenge that you now want to make extra complications around. The progress party does not doubt the Christian People's Party's intentions here, but the principle of property tax is not discussed. That is the principle that should be discussed. Whether it's a wise principle, a fair principle, and whether the tax has other implications that in turn create other injustices, yes, that's right, and that's what this proposal is discussing. The Progress Party therefore has an alternative proposal, in which we once again want to remove the property tax law – as we have promoted in this proposal to the Christian People's Party. But the intention of the Christian People's Party is good. The Progress Party shares its intention and feels it is good, but it creates a problem that does not exist by maintaining a property tax law which, in the view of the Advance Party, is initially insane. I will take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e516	Then the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e519	So the right-hand side thinks that the property tax is a local decision. We are largely in favour of the majority opinion and join the rapporteur's remarks. But we would like to remind you a little bit about a little comment from the Left and the Right, which goes on what we mentioned in Document 8: 126 for 2010–2011, about machines and equipment. Now in these two-way times, and especially with a focus on the forest industry, there is reason to recall that there is a huge problem with regard to machinery and equipment that are taxed on property around the municipalities. In fact, national competitiveness in competitive jobs is a national issue. At the time, we were promised that the Minister of Finance would look at the issue. That was a significant concern. The majority of the parties even went out on TV 2 and said that this was something that was to be solved quite quickly. Then we got the answer to the challenge last summer by the Ministry of Finance put everything aside and gave up finding a solution. I would like to remind you of that, because there is something that is straining e.g. the forest industry – at least according to the Norwegian industry says – with annual costs greater than the contents of the crisis packages for the forest industry. Thus, only that tax alone burdens a competitive sector with a peculiar charge greater than the crisis packages the government has so far been able to present. We have also pointed out that property taxes for the power plant part – which I understand many are concerned about precisely this – are a distribution between local and central in terms of value creation at power plant, and could easily be lifted out of that issue. I just wanted to remind you of that, because this was a Document 8 proposal on property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e530	Municipalities who choose to introduce property taxes have a flexible code to stick to. We see that more and more municipalities introduce property taxes, but that the design of it locally varies greatly from municipality to municipality. The Christian People's Party would like to expand the register of optionalities in the design of the property tax further by including a decision whether there can be full exemption on grounds of social interest. This is a sympathetic idea, but the significance is already partly borne in mind by the fact that ownership taxes give the local government the opportunity to exempt people from tax in whole or in part if it gives particularly unreasonable results. The difference is that the Christian People's Party wants a general decision on social welfare when issuing the tax, while today's law provides for individual exemption from the tax. The proposers of the Christian People's Party want to maintain their ability to print property taxes, and think that their proposals will dampen the local conflicts about taxes. Maybe it's a point, even though my impression is that it's not the weakest ones who are the most committed to property taxes. Rather, it's those of us who are good at it, and who are afraid of high taxes in general, which are the most talkative opponents of the property tax. Property taxes do not take into account the income of the taxpayer, but rather the value of the dwelling and other property. This results in a rash that may be difficult to detect. We don't want people to get away from the place they're connected to and happy with. I think most municipalities are aware of this, they design the property tax so that it takes care of it. Many municipalities choose to exempt housing from the property tax, while others use bottoms that are so high that the tax does not become too burdensome for ordinary dwellings. The Minister of Finance warns in his letter to the Financial Committee against making changes to the tax on property that weaken the tax on object taxes by introducing revenue-dependent foundations into the basis for tax output. I think we have to recognize that the proposal from the Christian People's Party can give difficult decisions both in principle and for the municipalities who are going to exercise them. In recent years, the size has made changes to the rules for issuing property taxes that have strengthened flexibility. The most important thing I think is that the possibility of printing taxes on works and use is complemented by the fact that commercial property is subscribed to in this tax base. This possibility has caused several municipalities to decide to introduce property taxes, but exceptional housing in recent years. I have stated that the intention of the Christian People's Party's proposals is good, but also for uncertainty as to whether the proposal is appropriate. Our local government has passed a law that provides them with an assessment basis for the introduction of property taxes that are far beyond deciding whether one is in favour of or against the tax. My call to municipal politicians is to spend time and energy on how to get a design of the property tax that protects against highly unwanted outcomes. It's possible within today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e547	It was not intended to invite you to a general property tax debate – about which someone has been in. But once we have the possibility that municipalities can print property taxes, as legislators, we also have a responsibility for giving them a code that can take care of social concerns as well. I have basically come to the conclusion that everyone agrees that the municipalities should exercise social considerations when they print property taxes, and then we clearly disagree a little about how it should be done. The latter talk was about who uses the highest amount of property tax. I agree that outwardly it seems that those who often have the best opportunity to pay the tax are the most uphearted. But it is not for whom this proposal is intended. On the contrary, it is those who do not come forward with their high-vote complaints, but who actually have greater reason to be heard, for which, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we could get a better regulation. It is absolutely right that you can reduce or write down the total property tax on an individual basis. But I think everyone is aware that it's happening very little precisely because it's individual-based, and that's something most municipalities don't want to take in -- to put it straight out. Both the Minister of Finance and the Progress Party – and everyone – think the Christian People's Party's intentions are good, and there's something to bring with it, but it stops there. I think it's a polite phrase in what the finance minister writes to the committee. I quote from the letter: «Many might consider it unreasonable to own a valuable dwelling but to avoid property taxes as a result of a modest income.» There are a lot of people who think the opposite is very unreasonable – what Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was about – namely that this object tax is designed so that people with low incomes, for example. one who is left as a widower or widower, perhaps in the worst case, must sell his dwelling because he does not charge the property tax. I think that many people feel that it is more unreasonable than to avoid property taxes because you actually don't have very good income to pay for it. We might live in a little bit of different worlds. We get to accept that, but I want to say that once we have property taxes – and we have supported that – it is also up to us to ensure that we have a code that can adequately safeguard social interests in the design of property taxes. That is what our proposal is trying to do. We're not exactly overly excited that it gets so little connection, but that's the way it is. At least I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e565	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e568	As the rapporteur and others have mentioned, property tax is a voluntary municipal tax. It is the local government that decides whether to issue property taxes in the municipality. I believe that today's legislation gives municipalities great freedom of choice in the design of the tax. As has also been pointed out in the debate, if a municipality finds it problematic to levy taxes on a residential property, it is possible to choose a write-off option that completely excludes housing. The law also has optional instruments to mitigate the tax burden on dwellings. Municipalities may have a deduction for dwellings. It shall be a fixed amount, and the law does not provide for a ceiling on the amount of this deduction. My own municipality has e.g. such a deduction. The base deduction will be the most significant for those with the lowest housing wealth, but through such rules property tax also receives a progressive element that can accommodate certain distribution reasons without the tax losing the character of being a tax on property as an object, and not income tax. The use of base deductions also has the advantage that the amount of the deduction can be adapted to the local price level of dwellings in each municipality. The law also allows for a lower tax rate for dwellings than for other property. To one of the last things that the representative Syvertsen had in mind, I would also like to say that Section 28 of the Property Tax Act opens up so that the chairmanship can reduce or abolish property tax when special reasons make it particularly unreasonable to claim it. This applies, for example: if the taxpayer suffers financial difficulties because he has lower income due to sickness and is not wealthy to meet it. In the preparatory work, it has also been said that reduction or cancellation for reasonable reasons should, as the representative Syversen pointed out to the extent, be able to speak out on an exceptional basis. This provision does not allow the municipality to make a general reduction or remission for groups that the municipality considers should be protected. The question of reduction or remission must therefore be decided on in concrete terms in the individual case. There are no central regulations or other rules for relaxation according to § 28. As a result, several municipalities have set their own guidelines on when the tax is to be taxed or reduced. Such guidelines make it possible for the municipality to have equal treatment in lemping cases, and that is positive because the principle of equality is the basic principle behind the Property Tax Act. Income and wealth may be important elements in the decision to relax. Against this background, I believe that many of the concerns of the proposers are there and can be addressed within today's legislation and with greater precision than for example. with a general rule. It is also true that if the municipality adopts more general guidelines on when it is possible to relax property taxes, it does not have to be dealt with in a way that is too resource-intensive. As I said, I believe that the law today provides the necessary flexibility to take care of many different aspects of the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e601	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e610	In 2012 heirs and gifts up to 470,000 kroner are exempt from inheritance fees. In the case of inheritance and gifts to children and parents, the fee is 6 pst. inheritance between NOK 470000 and NOK 800000 and 10 pst. on the excess. When the inheritance tax was amended in 2009, the aim was to make the levy fairer by more equalising different types of property, reducing rates and increasing entry points. The 2009 changes were estimated to bring net relief of just under 1.4 billion. NOK incurred in 2009. Government parties have therefore done a lot with the inheritance tax, in line with the principles of broad bases and low rates. The inheritance tax can be seen as a modest compensation for the absence of income and profit taxes. Among recipients of inheritance and gifts are those with the highest income and wealth that receive the highest values, thus paying the most inheritance tax in absolute terms. The proposal of the Christian People's Party seeks to introduce a right to inheritance tax depreciation over ten years in the event of a generation change in family-owned enterprises. It is important to facilitate this type of generation change. We in the government parties therefore point to the introduction in 2006 of the interest-free inheritance tax system in relation to generational shifts in family holdings and the extension in 2009. The annual charge for the transfer from parents to children will be a maximum of 0,8 pst. by the inheritance tax base of the establishment if the deduction scheme is used. Recipients of shares and other forms of ownership of these types of enterprises have so far used the scheme to a limited extent, perhaps because the legislation on inheritance tax is favourable initially. The consideration of non-discrimination and efficient resource use suggests that activities transferred through generational shifts should initially face the same tax and tax conditions as other activities. In principle, no special advantages should be introduced into the tax system which contribute to stimulating one type of ownership rather than another. A conditional inheritance tax exemption on the transfer of ownership between generations of enterprises will also weaken the distribution characteristics of the inheritance tax. The majority of the Committee, the parties to the Government, proposes that the proposal be rejected. I have registered that several parties have also needed to mention the inheritance fee as such through special comments. First of all, the Progress Party has put in a note that, in my opinion, is strongly formulated. I think there is a great difference between the Christian People's Party's proposals, which are about family-run businesses, other proposals aimed at protecting things with affections – family homes or nets fortunes – and the Promoting Party's desire to eliminate all inheritance fees, even when transferring extraordinary assets. Warren Buffett is among the most successful investors in the 20th century. He supports the inheritance fee and should have said that removing it would be like choosing the OL team in 2020 by picking the oldest sons of the gold medal winners in the OL 2000. It's not about envying wealthy families, it's about believing that we can distribute the money better. I think it's amazing that people from simple states can create the greatest wealth in the world, but in my opinion there are other taxes and taxes where reduction will have more potential to improve the functioning of the economy than to completely eliminate the inheritance tax, for example. reduction in corporate tax, as the government is now proposing. The U.S. has a federal death grant of 40 p.m. to the values of a stiller exceeding 5,25 million. US dollars, or about $30 million. Norwegian Krone. In addition, inheritance tax at the state level comes in a number of Länder where the tax rate varies from 9,5 pst. until 20 pst. In New Jersey and Maryland, the marginal rate of the Federal Mortgage Fee, the Federal Mortgage Fee and the Inheritance Fee may be increased to 72 pst, respectively. and 66 pst. So the inheritance fee is in no way strange. On the contrary, the government has provided both relief and improvements to the inheritance tax, and the highest marginal rate in Norway is just under a quarter compared to these Länder. I take it with me to avoid claims that this is about a strange fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e633	On several occasions, most recently at the time of the 2013 state budget review, the Progress Party has proposed to remove this levy. The inheritance tax is a double taxation of values and makes the state a divisional wing, whether it is house, cabin, money, securities or commercial buildings that have been taxed in the past, and preferably over several generations. This charge not only affects individuals, but at the time of a generation change it could create major problems for the owners of businesses. Since there are often values in the form of machinery, equipment or buildings transferred by inheritance, it has on several occasions resulted in companies that have not had reserves to pay the inheritance fee having to borrow or sell parts of the holding in order to pay a poor country its badly needed money. For individuals too, this can lead to problems by the fact that the heirs have to sell assets away to pay the inheritance fee. The Progress Party believes, in principle, that the taxation of funds that have been taxed in the past is wrong. The inheritance fee also leads to unnecessary costs and burdens in addition to the fee itself. Many rent legal aid in connection with inheritance planning, which may lead to a lower inheritance fee for the individual, but with higher costs of legal assistance than necessary. In addition, the tax rate is unnecessarily charged through controls and guidance. Since this is the taxation of something the deceased has spent over a long life using their taxed funds to – to invest in houses, cabins or other things – there is no basis for further taxation. I am absolutely sure that the deceased had their closest in mind when the inheritance was to be distributed, and not the state. Therefore, the best way to simplify the legislation on inheritance tax is to remove the inheritance tax for both individuals and businesses, as the Progress Party has proposed on several occasions. Nor does the party see any basis for creating a degressive plan that will only benefit business. Although we want to remove the inheritance fee and do not support the proposal from the Christian People's Party, we do not want the proposal in the vote to be adopted. We therefore support the proposal by the Right that document 8:74 S be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e646	The right will primarily eliminate the entire inheritance, both for individuals and for businesses. The right view is that the Christian People's Party's proposal is better than the government's option, but if we look at the changes in the inheritance tax that the government has made since 2009, these taxes on inheritance are tightening up and making it more difficult for family-run companies to inherit, especially in District Norway. The companies are ASs that have received the largest leverage in the inheritance fee, although ordinary consumers who have inherited cabins have been reduced. This, combined with the increased wealth tax the government has had on working capital during the same period, has resulted in very many family-run businesses in District Norway having unnecessary challenges in competing with other companies. That is why the Right has said that we want to remove the entire inheritance. I refer to the Right-wing proposal that Document 8:74 S be annexed to the Minutes. In the context of our alternative state budget, we have a proposal that follows our programme formula to remove the fee, namely to remove step 1 of the inheritance tax and halve the rate at the remaining stage. The inheritance fee is of such size that the Right believes it is a fee that the State could just as well handle without it. We are well aware of the arguments that taxes and charges have already been paid on up-to-date capital, cabins, houses, movables, businesses – whatever it may be. The imposition of a charge to continue operating the same company in the family has led – in our view – to some ugly cases in District Norway, where companies are usually sold out in their entirety instead of staying in the family, so that they can afford to pay inheritance fees. There is a structure that does not preserve scattered ownership, that does not preserve local ownership, and that does not care for small enterprises that are on the way to growing even larger. Although this case from the Christian People's Party is only about ‘businesses’, the same arguments apply to families who are to inherit cabins. We see the market challenges that have brought about the increase in prices both on dwellings and on cabins along the sea and on the mountains, and that have been reinforced because the government – almost every year – increases the value of housing number two. The government has also – as a parallel to the previous case – made it easier for municipalities to introduce property taxes and house taxes, as well as property taxes. It's a pretty big tax boost that comes from property taxes and house taxes, and it looks like the government is actually bringing in the house tax that the Bondevik II government has removed, with other methods. This is why we are voting in favour of our own proposal that document 8:74 S be annexed to the Minutes. We repeat the proposal of our alternative state budget, and of course come back to it in revision. Like the Progress Party, we think the proposals of the Christian People's Party are better than the government's proposals, but we have another option, namely to remove the inheritance fee completely, but in two steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e659	Does the representative wish to address the Right-wing proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e662	Yes, I've done that twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e667	The representative, Arve Kambe, then addressed the proposal as included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e670	The inheritance fees create debate and strong claims. On the one hand, it is claimed that the fee is a confiscation of money that is already taxed. On the other hand, it is said that this is a very reasonable taxation of large income streams that largely benefit the richest. In the Central Party, there is a debate on this issue. At our national meeting, the Programme Committee's proposal to remove the inheritance fee in favour of a proposal for an additional increase in the amount of free money, which is currently NOK 470,000. So this is going to be a thing that we're going to follow up on in the next big period. But it is also such that under the red-green government so far, the inheritance fee of approx. 1.4 B.C.E. kr. The proposal from the Christian People's Party to abolish the inheritance fee for generation change in family-owned enterprises is the reason why this levy often hinders the further development of the enterprises, and that it can also lead to closures of enterprises. There are quite dramatic consequences of the inheritance tax that are outlined in the representative proposal. The Minister of Finance does not share these statements in the letter he wrote to the Financial Committee. In order to prevent the collection of inheritance tax from creating liquidity problems for family-owned enterprises, interest-free repayment schemes have been established over 12 years. The freedom of interest and the length of the repayment period represent, in sum, the amounts of money to be paid. In the Central Party, we think it is well worth noting that the Minister of Finance informed that the system of deferred payment of inheritance tax is being used to a limited extent. This means that the inheritance fee represents a slightly less problem for ownership change in family-owned enterprises than the one guessed in the proposal. For the Centre Party, it is important to contribute to a tax system that promotes value creation and employment. Small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often personally owned family businesses, are a cornerstone of the value creation here in the country. We are happy to have been able to help with the taxation of these companies. The removal of the audit obligation for small enterprises was one very important decision. Through the economic growth package of the revised national budget, the government proposes to reduce corporation tax and income tax on enterprises owned by individuals. In addition, a new startup write will be inserted on the operating media, which will also provide you with new eases. We will continue to work on other measures that can strengthen the growth strength of small and medium-sized enterprises across the country. In this way, we share the ambitions contained in the proposal for a representative, but we are not at all convinced that the concrete proposal we are discussing today is the most important thing we can do for family-owned businesses now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e685	Through this proposal, we propose to facilitate something that is an Achilles heel in many situations: when businesses – not least those who are family-owned – are to be transferred from one generation to another. You haven't quite followed along, I think, if you don't see that this is a challenge in many places. We have also seen more than one notice showing that the heirs in given situations choose to sell the company rather than to operate it further, when applying such high costs as the inheritance fee represents today. What I think is a little interesting about the position's argument is that it is very two-part: firstly, you boast of everything you have received on the inheritance fee – you have got a larger deduction, you always take action to make it better for business – but at the same time, you attack others who are also making proposals that are really in the same direction. This is a form of reasoning that we recognize from the wealth tax debate. One day you are delighted that there are fewer people paying taxes on wealth, and the other day you criticize the opposition up and down to almost destroy the entire distribution of income and wealth in society. So it's not quite easy, at least not for me, to get the sense of what you really mean, but it's probably not up to me to get it done. We are now proposing this because we believe that it can have a positive effect on something that Norwegian business is facing to a great extent, because there are many generations to come. It is interesting to note that this has been problematic within the EU. They say that yes, we're very busy with business, and you have to be, but they point out that we're too little busy making sure that there's a successful generation shift in the companies that are doing well, not least in the small and medium-sized enterprises. It may well have as much to say for total employment as for entrepreneurial activity, but one does not, of course, exclude the other. The majority are very faithful to the Ministry of Finance, and that is probably good in many ways. They indicate that: ‘The notion of non-discrimination and efficient use of resources suggests that businesses transferred through generational shifts should initially face the same tax and tax conditions as other enterprises’. This is a well-known argument. At the same time, this government has also made a difference for family-run enterprises by introducing the interest-free deduction scheme. So it's possible with a special treatment that's never so small when you think it's necessary. I'll take up our suggestion. We think it's a good suggestion to secure family-run businesses and good transitions from one generation to another. They should have this opportunity, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e702	Then the representative Hans Olav Syversen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e706	We are now dealing with a proposal that we have dealt with several times before. Already in 2008, the Left co-rapporteur was on a similar proposal. The background at that time, and still valid, is the challenge that the inheritance tax presents to the small and medium-sized enterprises that are facing a generational shift. There are many companies in Norway that are family-owned and that have to close the company for equity to cover the costs of generation-change inheritance tax, which have been borne by several. However, when the Left does not vote in favour of the present proposal for a representative today, it is because – although a conditional exemption from inheritance tax in family-owned enterprises is better than today’s legislation, which has also been discussed by many – it is much more appropriate to remove the inheritance tax for both businesses and individuals instead of patching up existing legislation. In this way, I refer you to proposals from the Left in connection with the revised national budget, which we are dealing with in a short time. The inheritance fee initially leads to unnecessary red tape in relation to inheritance planning, legal assistance and workload for equality authorities. A conditional exemption from the inheritance fee will reinforce this, we believe in the Left. In addition, the inheritance tax – in the main context – involves a very modest and increasingly smaller proportion of the total tax revenue from the State budget. In the adopted State budget for 2013, the inheritance tax amounts to approx. 0.22 pst. of the total taxes and charges. However, the left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Right to attach the proposal to the Minutes. On an incursion, this has not been listed as such in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e717	This is an example of the fact that one in the design of tax rules has to balance different considerations. I believe that the government did this when we proposed in 2006 to extend the interest-free amortization scheme, and by further extending it in the context of changes made in 2009. In 2009, the scheme was extended by abolishing the size limit on the companies covered by the scheme and the freedom of interest allows transfers of family holdings using the deduction scheme to obtain a real relief from the inheritance tax compared to other beneficiaries of inheritance and gifts. As the rapporteur pointed out, this entails a maximum charge of 0,8 pst. on the basis of which the levy is based in the establishment if the deduction scheme is used. In the 2009 amendment, we also retained the possibility for the recipient of unlisted shares to make use of the discount on the basis of the inheritance tax. It's now 40 pst. within a fee base of 10 million. kr for the individual recipient. Favourable valuation rules for unlisted shares, e.g. non-valued goodwill was also continued. Last but not least, the sharp reduction in the rates and the sharp increase in the entry points of the inheritance tax also benefited the beneficiaries of the family business. As the representative of Meltveit Kleppa was involved, these changes we have made, a relief in the inheritance fee of about 1.4 billion. kr. It is also the case that in the case of the transfer of family-owned enterprises to individual enterprises, the values will typically be transferred as property in the form of properties, e.g.: agricultural property, agrarian property and other commercial property. This is also a type of property that represents a small gross share of the inheritance tax base. But what is my main concern is that the consideration of generational shifts in family-run enterprises must be weighed against other considerations, such as: consideration of the country’s income, efficient use of resources, allocation considerations, fairness considerations and termination of the inheritance tax. Finally, I would like to say that a position that is based on a desire to remove the inheritance fee, as far as a real point of view is concerned. But when you have an inheritance tax, it has been the government's position that within the system we have, we should try to help ensure that the inheritance tax takes the best possible care of distribution reasons within the charging system. That is why we have increased the entry points and made the changes we have made to the inheritance fee. We believe that the inheritance tax is important in order to maintain important distribution considerations in the context of fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e732	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e735	Maybe I'm a little heavy on that -- I admit it -- and if I'm having a hard time doing that, I'm going to apologize for that. But I'm getting a little bit of trouble here now. AS Norway joins close to 400 billion. kr in profit, so it's quite obvious that the state in isolation does not need the 4 billion. kr you are taking in inheritance tax. So that's not proven. It is possible that this inheritance fee once existed because you needed the money, but now you do not need the money, so you do not need this fee. My question to the Council of State is: what is the principleal and ideological reason why the state should be a party to all the successions in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e744	I am not going to try to assess how much the individual representatives get with them or not get with them. It gets to the extent that others take care of it. But what I think is an important point in this context is that there is probably an ideological difference in the approach to the view of inheritance fees between the undersigned and the representative Tybring-Gjedde. In fact, if you look at the distribution of income and wealth in this country, some of the main distribution policy considerations relate to wealth and inheritance. So I also have a strong distribution policy desire in relation to the inheritance tax: that it should also contribute in total to a better distribution of values in this society. One might say that there is also an ideological assessment of the inheritance fee. It is also likely that a good person can use the 400 billion in profits as an argument to eliminate most taxes, as the Progress Party will do, and that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e753	I understand that the Workers' Party and the Right disagree on the inheritance fee, and as the Minister of Finance says, of course the government will rule on behalf of the inheritance fee being there. But the argument the Minister of Finance uses is to look at different measures to make it as fair as possible and want to have a bottom line that will reflect the ability of ordinary people to inherit. But that bottom deduction has in practice been flat in nominal terms since 2009, at NOK 470 000, and flat in nominal terms means that for ordinary people, the government has increased the inheritance tax every year, and in addition, the value of cabins has increased after inheritance. There is also a possibility of cab tax, and it does not contribute to the possibility for ordinary people to have a cabin.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e760	I think it's important in such debates – to use an expression from Hedmark – to turn a little off the public. I believe, as the representative Mr Kleppa also pointed out, that the effects should not be over-dramatic. But it is clear that the inheritance tax, like other taxes, can have distortive effects. We have not concealed this, and that is also the reason why we have made certain changes to the inheritance tax. So it's like that, for example. the amount of the base deduction is normally assessed in relation to the annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e767	The reasons given by the majority focus on, as I quoted in my statement, on non-discrimination and efficient use of resources. Nevertheless, it is shown that for generational shifts in family-owned enterprises, this non-interest-rate deduction scheme has been introduced. Given that the Council of State agrees that it is in a way to derogate from a principle of non-discrimination, I would ask: what was the reason for a derogation, but not as we propose, namely a conditional inheritance tax exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e774	I think one in the tax debate will find examples of one having introduced special schemes, for example. In order to mitigate the burden of paying a levy, or – as we were faced with earlier today in connection with the property tax – that municipalities, for example: may adopt special arrangements to mitigate the burden on those who consider that they are subject to an unreasonable property tax. Similarly, one here has made a choice with regard to family-owned enterprises and extended the interest-free deduction scheme from seven to twelve years. One might say that there's some kind of discrimination, but it's a recognition that a person wants to have a system that allows people to feel that a person gets a certain sense of reasonableness in being able to deduct the inheritance tax. I don't think it's very different from other arrangements in other areas, but I understand that's a good rhetorical point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e781	Several have not asked for the word for several good rhetorical points in case no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e795	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e804	In the proposal for a regulation, the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Knut Arild Hareide, Hans Olav Syversen and Dagrun Eriksen are asking the government to conduct a holistic review of the car and fuel charges and to propose changes to the state budget for 2014. The purpose of the review shall be to ensure that average emissions of new passenger cars in 2020 do not exceed an average of 85 grams of CO2/km. A broad majority in Stortinget has previously joined the target of reducing emissions in 2020. The government has previously notified and endorsed an evaluation of the exemption from the user fee in 2015, saying that there are no plans to change the user fee for alternative fuels before this evaluation. The Christian People's Party now wants to make a different progress in dealing with these questions, but it continues to end in 2020 as a measuring point for the ambitious emission reductions we adopted for our passenger car fleet in the treatment of climate communication. The majority do not think it is appropriate to adopt the proposal of the Christian People's Party's representatives to change the progress of their government's work now, while the minority, the Christian People's Party with the support of the Right and the Left, want the review of car and fuel charges to be presented in the state budget for 2014. The entire committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has agreed on the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions for passenger cars and the time we have seen to achieve them. Usemja is associated with the submission of proposals for action by the Stortinget. So there's a broader deal about the most important thing than the lack of understanding about the process that you're dealing with. From the plural point of view, we have seen it as important to hold on to the progress that has already been signaled. We need a significant transition to more environmentally friendly passenger cars. There is a reasonable amount of time to carry out the renewal, which is necessary, both in terms of the technological change that must take place, and in terms of the renewal of the car park that must be followed. I think it's important that we don't worry, we don't worry about goals or progress. The party of progress highlights its isolation in climate policy in this matter as well. Their main objective is to reduce car charges, not climate targets. Fortunately, they're all on their own. The transport sector accounts for an important part of climate change emissions. As indicated in the basis of the proposal for a representative, climate emissions from the transport sector amounted to 32 pst. by Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions in 2011. Road traffic alone amounted to 19 pst. of the national emissions. The government has taken significant steps to reduce the emissions and to close them. In 2006, the average CO2 emissions for passenger cars were 177 grams/km. In 2011, emissions were 134 grams/km. So we're going down to 85 grams/km in 2020. The government has implemented fees conversions that make it beneficial to buy low-emission cars. With the latest increase proposed in the revised national budget, the vacancy is doubled from 2011. This shows that the government and the majority of the population have been offensive to the environment of the car park. I find it difficult to see that the proposal for a comprehensive review of the legislation in the 2014 budget will represent a change in direction and objectives that have already been set. The government has warned, and will ensure that the car charges are designed so that they contribute to a more environmentally friendly and climate friendly car park. Against this background, I recommend to the Committee that document 8:77 S not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e841	The one-off charge for passenger cars is high and limits the turnover of new cars. According to Vista Analysis, the maximum fee paid in 2011 was 1.4 million. kr for a car. As a result, today’s one-off fee helps to provide the basis for one of Europe’s oldest car parks. The average life expectancy of cars is about 19 years in Norway, compared with 14 years elsewhere in Europe. Is this environmentally friendly? The high level of charges thus contributes to poorer safety on Norwegian roads and higher emissions from the car fleet than a more reasonable charging system would provide. The level of today's one-off charge makes it unattainable for many consumers to buy a new car. As a result, Norway has obtained one of the narrowest complex car parks in Europe in terms of model selection. This structure of the narrow model range limits consumers’ choice of cars to their own needs. In particular, the system discriminates against normal family cars, where versions that are reasonably priced from the factory are made almost unsaleable in the Norwegian market with extreme results in the charging calculation. One consequence is that families with children are typically referred to the used car market or forced to choose small cars with lower safety than the need indicated. The system also discriminates against environmentally friendly technologies for as long as the weight and power account for more than two thirds of the basis of calculation. The Party considers that the charging system must be set up in such a way as to enable consumers to choose their own car as needed. Such a reform would result in the extremities of the charging system being phased out and decision-making powers being transferred from politicians and bureaucrats to the individual consumer. Today's one-off charge limits the sale of new cars and makes us have an older car park with higher emissions than a fairer tax would bring. The Minister of Finance has shown on several occasions that today's charging system means that we have suffered a severe drop in emissions. But can the Council of State explain why European countries have had a similar or greater reduction in emissions without a one-off charge? This shows that it is technical progress that reduces emissions and not Norwegian charging policy. One consequence of the composition of the charge is that if emissions to a car are reduced, a higher charge is still imposed if weight and power increase simultaneously. The Progress Party will have a system of generally lower charges, which will be taxed for emissions, but without today's extremes. This will result in higher new car sales, faster modernisation of the car fleet and thus lower total emissions as well as a car park with higher road safety. The weight component of the one-off charge means that larger family cars with good safety are discriminated against in the Norwegian car market. The current charging system promotes small cars with low safety and makes reference to the used car market for those in need of a larger car and priority safety. A system in which the weight component of the one-off charge is removed will make it economically possible for several consumers to give priority to safety when purchasing a new car. The Christian People's Party wants a review of the car charges. The Progress Party is tired of waiting for years for a review of the charging system, which has been promised for years. That is why we have today presented a proposal for a new charging system based on a single charge and a CO2 part. This proposal will lead to a reduction in emissions as the CO2 component becomes the main input factor in the new system. In addition, such a new system would lead to the disappearance of all extremes of the charging system. This will lead to more people buying a new car with new technology rather than importing a used car with old technology. It's being forward-looking. That's thinking about the environment. Although we have a primary wish to do this and today we have made a proposal in the Chamber on this, we want to modernise the one-off fee as soon as possible, so that we support the subsidiary proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e864	In the 2012 budget, the government gave a comprehensive review of the car charges. I would just like to underline some of the points made by the rapporteur in his statement. Car charges have improved significantly during this period of government. The environmental profile of the one-off charge has been reinforced. From 2007 the one-off fee has been changed to motivate the purchase of cars with low CO2 emissions. From 2012, the one-off fee also takes into account NOx emissions, as proposed by the Asthma and Allergy Association. By emphasising both CO2 and NOx in calculating the one-off charge, we take into account both global climate change and local air emissions. Cars that have both low global climate emissions and low local environmental emissions are thus the most favourable. At the same time, less emphasis is placed on the car's engine power, horsepower, so that the effects of the change in the one-off fee are budget neutral. The weighting of CO2 in the one-off charge is a success story, in my opinion. Compared to 2006, CO2 emissions from new cars have been reduced by more than a quarter. This is a good reduction compared to other countries. Both technological developments and motivating charging policies have contributed to speeding up these developments. There are now increasing numbers of car types that have both low CO2 emissions and low local environmental emissions. In September 2012, the sale of hybrid cars was 6 pst. of the total sales of the car. It's probably the highest in the world. Many common cars now have ten thousand kroner lower one-off charges than they would have had under the legislation that was in force when the government took over. For hybrid cars, in some cases there is a tax relief of more than DKK 100000 in total over the period. It is likely that the proportion of hybrid cars will continue to increase in the future, because the government has proposed to increase the weight deduction for hybrid trucks and because there are likely to be more hybrid cars on the market in the future. The re-registration fee has been significantly reduced, with a total of about 600 million. kr in 2012 and 2013. The tax reduction is highest for a commercial vehicle, but passenger cars have also been reduced by the re-registration fee. The total level of car charges is thus slightly reduced during the current flooding period. We have increased the wreckage from NOK 1500 to NOK 2,500, and in the revised national budget the government has proposed to increase the wreckage further to NOK 3000. The Norwegian framework conditions for the provision of environmentally friendly cars are among the best in the world. In Norway, there is now a relatively large market for electric and hybrid cars. It also helps make it more attractive for car manufacturers to invest in the development of new environmentally friendly technologies. Then I think we can take it with us that in the case of car charges, it is nice that when you turn one lever in one direction, another goes the opposite way. There are a number of reasons we must seek to address in the design of the charges: climate and environmental considerations, predictability of both the drivers, the industry and the activities concerned for other purposes, distribution, revenue from the State budget, etc. That's why I'm in line with what you might call a step-by-step knowledge-based approach in this area. We support the government's ambitious objectives in the climate communication, including: that the average CO2 emissions of new passenger cars shall not exceed 85 grams/km in 2020. The transport sector is one of our major emissions sectors, and cut here is an important part of our national climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e907	Right is on the proposal of the Christian People's Party, because we see the development that has been following both the climate settlement 1 and the climate settlement 2 in the case of car traffic. If the ambitious CO2 reduction objectives are to be achieved, the fact is that drastic changes need to be made, as developments have largely halted the reduction of CO2 emissions. Some estimates show that the targets need to be met, 25-30 pst. of new cars in 2020 be chargeable. It's a seven-year period, so every four or five cars have to be. At the same time as the government has announced that nothing will happen until early 2015, despite the fact that over many years the government has announced that this will happen – in the revised budget, in the state budget, in the next state budget – the entire car industry and Norwegian car buyers and consumers have been waiting for changes in order to adapt to the objectives of the climate agreement. There's really nothing coming. There are major challenges in getting people to not just buy an electric car as car no. 2, but maybe a rechargeable car as a main car. There are a lot of families that don't do yet. Some of the explanation is that the cars that are chargeable are significantly more expensive than the corresponding car – with higher emissions – in petrol or diesel. This can be done, for example. to look at the engine power charge in the case of chargeable cars, in order to have a significant increase. This has not been announced by the government in the context of the revised state budget. Actually, there is something about the battery, it is very good, but it is far enough. I think the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance themselves know that. We have such a long way to go that the major measures need to be implemented – preferably before the rise. This is how Stortinget called for a comprehensive review of car charges and the car policy that the government has announced – also because the Stortinget had access to the information that the government has access to. Because we know well – we have been told, at least – that the government is sitting on quite comprehensive reports from, among other things. The Transport Economic Institute, reports that are not omitted, either to the industry itself or to the opposition. So the government sits there and knows something very many people don't know. For something it must be when the government a few years ago said so clearly that soon there will be an overall review, that you simply say it does not come. It is a recognition that technology is far ahead of policy. It's always going to be like that, but that's why it would have been okay for the Storting to get involved in a discussion to know what kind of instruments the government sees fit to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. We know that the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party, which is supported by the Right, could lead to cars becoming more roadworthy. So we know that when the cars become more traffic-proof, they become heavier. When they get heavier, the weight component of the one-off charge increases. As they become more environmentally friendly in terms of battery and other things, they become heavier. The government is doing something about this in the revised budget. However, in the case of the rechargeable hybrid cars, which can be speeded up, which many car manufacturers are now launching, and which are likely to take off in 2014 – and hopefully in the future – are not these competitive ones. In that case, families with young children have to make the choice to pay NOK 60000–80 000 more for a family car that is a hybrid car – and all studies show that they would rather buy it – but if you buy the identical twin brother, regardless of the car brand, which costs significantly less and goes on diesel or petrol, no environmental impact has been obtained. There's a job the government has to do, and that's some of the reason why the Right supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party. With this I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e930	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e933	It's a pleasure to be able to tell me a hundred percent agree with previous speakers' posts, so it's not that much to add from my side. When the Christian People's Party has promoted this proposal, it is actually in respect of a settlement that we have concluded and that we intend to implement, namely that we will achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves – together – in the climate agreement. The transport sector is a significant contributor to achieving the objectives we have shared. I would also like to remind you that the government has previously announced that we would have a comprehensive review of the car charges. The government announced that they would return. In 2011, it was said that an overall review would be carried out. It didn't come, because it was actually canceled by the red-greens in the 2012 budget. This review of the car charges was then cancelled. So it's a little bit broken and divided. I fully agree with the rapporteur that predictability is important. But with respect to reporting, there is something that has characterized this government, at least in the first period, that there was no predictability in car charges. First people were asked to go over to diesel, then people did it, and then it got wrong. Then it was asked to go back to petrol, because the local emissions of diesel cars were too high. So what this government has delivered in terms of car charges has not exactly been marked by predictability. I fully agree that in recent years the proposals have had a good effect, but we still believe that we should achieve what we have set ourselves as a goal in a few years, the Storting should also, overall, have carried out a review, so that we could be sure that the instruments we are implementing can enable us to achieve the rather ambitious objectives we have in the climate agreement. It was our intention to contribute to that with this proposal. The majority have said no to that, they're brilliantly satisfied – and we'll see if new costs can help change if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e948	As others from the majority have pointed out, the government has proposed and adopted significant changes in car charges to reduce CO2 emissions. In 2007, a cylinder capacity of CO2 emissions replaced as a basis for calculation. Greater emphasis has been placed on CO2 emissions throughout the years since 2008. It shows that this government has worked purposefully to bring down CO2 emissions from the car park, and we have achieved good results: from being above the EU in 2007, we are now just below the EU level. This means that Norway has taken a leap that is probably also due to changes in charging policy, and that it stimulates the purchase of more environmentally friendly cars. We propose further changes to the revised national budget for hybrid cars. Some have pointed out that the age of the car park in Norway is high compared to other countries. Yes, but at the same time there are several factors that affect age, and it is interesting to note that Sweden, which has completely different purchase fees, has a car park that is only approx. six months younger than the average car park in Norway. Finland has a higher average age, although they have significantly lower purchase fees on cars, so there are probably several factors that reflect the age of cars. If you look at the one-off fee in the last few years, it has fallen by about NOK 30 000 in Norway. This has made it possible for more people to buy a new car, and in my view, the lower level of charges has also contributed to the high new car sales we have had in recent years. It is true that we had a discussion about this in connection with the 2012 budget. At that time, the government announced a general excise duty on fuel according to energy content by 2020, and that one would evaluate this in 2015. There is a plan that this government adheres to, so I just want to say that we have already made major changes to the car charge. There have been significant reductions in emissions from new cars, and this is what the government intends to continue. We have given many clear signals about future charges, including: in the annual budgets and in the climate communication, and we will continue to give significant signals on the way forward in the annual budgets. That is why I do not see the need for a new comprehensive review of the car charges now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e969	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e973	Yeah, you can wonder what's the reason that the Swedes are only half a year ahead of us in the race, but it's well known that there's a careful race, so there might be something in it too. My question is simply: Does the government and the Council of State mean, according to what the Storting decided – and not just the climate announcement, but the size of its settlement in terms of what we are going to achieve from reduced emissions in the transport sector – that we are on a route?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e980	There is a slightly larger discussion that also involves other things, but I choose to stick to what concerns CO2 emissions from the car park. I believe that we are well on track to do so, and the government will continue the charging policy in that direction. In this way, the transport sector involves a number of interventions: we have just presented a national transport plan that involves a significant effort, for example on rail and public transport. But there is a slightly larger discussion that Stortinget will come back to before the holiday, I expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e990	To go back to the facts: As I said, despite previous warnings, the government has not done anything about the car charges. Then we see that the reduction in CO2 emissions that has been in the new car fleet has been significant, but new solutions are in the process of being needed to achieve the further reduction growth that is in the climate agreement. Then I have two questions: Will the Minister of Finance consider looking at the engine power charge for rechargeable hybrid cars to stimulate further? For example, an ordinary golf course. is 40 000–50000 kr cheaper than a new rechargeable Golf and is equivalent to products coming from Volvo and others. Does the Minister of Finance see that there is any key to reaching the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e998	There are two things: it is probably not right, as the representative claims, that the government has done nothing about taxes – rather the opposite. As I pointed out in my contribution, the conversion of new cars has contributed significantly to a reduction in CO2 emissions, which has gone from above, to being below the EU. When it comes to future charging policies, and what to consider in that context, I don't think it's right to speculate on this right now. However, I take with me the views expressed by the representative, Mr Kambe, and what we have done in the revised national budget, is to the extent that the government is taking part in the hour when it comes to development, for example. for hybrid cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1008	If I said that the government didn't do anything, it probably applied to the overall review – it wasn't, of course, the individual state budget. I thought more about, as I mentioned so far in my post, that there is something that has made the government go from being very offensive to having an overall review, to being suddenly exposed, and then a rough stop. It is said that there is good research and good reports available in the department that Stortinget had certainly benefited from reading. Will the Minister of Finance send e.g. reports drawn up on behalf of the Ministry of Finance of the Transport Economic Institute of Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1015	That's the kind of question it's hard to answer over the table, without one having evaluated and gone into what this actually is, but I'm going to take that point of view with me. As I said in my contribution, the government will continue to give a fairly broad description of car charges in the annual budgets, and we believe that the way we have turned on now is working. It also shows the reduction in CO2 emissions from new cars, but I am always open to new recordings, including those from the representative Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1037	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1046	Today, we have three different excise duties, which are often referred to as the common concept of sugar levies. The levy on chocolate and sugar products and the levy on non-alcoholic beverages dates back to the 1920s, while the sugar levy was introduced in 1981, as part of a transition to more indirect taxation, as well as the fact that at the time of its introduction it was shown that such a charge could also be beneficial as a measure to limit sugar consumption. In general, the fees are fiscally justified, in addition to providing a health justification. The Excise Tax Committee proposed that the three fees should be replaced by a more general sugar levy in food and drink. The Financial Committee agrees that it is desirable to make sugar levies more accurate than at present. A broad majority of the Committee, in its attitude, shows that a significant obstacle to the introduction of a more accurate sugar levy has been the lack of common rules within the EEA on how to label the nutrient content of foods. In the autumn of 2011, the EU adopted a new Regulation on food information. This Regulation requires the labelling of the total quantity of sugar in the products but does not require the labelling of the content of added sugar. It is desirable to reduce the consumption of foods with added sugar in particular because many foods included in a healthy and varied diet, in line with the health authorities’ recommendations, contain natural sugars. Another challenge is that there are no analytical methods to determine the amount of added sugar with the necessary degree of accuracy and that it will therefore be difficult to verify the accuracy of the declarations. The sugar levies also include, to some extent, products that are sugar-free, mainly on the recommendation of the health authorities, and the proposal for a representative addresses this issue. By letter from the Minister of Finance to the Financial Committee, it appears that the Directorate of Health and Food Safety will be asked to reconsider the appropriateness of inclusion of sugar-free products with added sweeteners in the fee base. In that opinion, the Committee makes reference to this point and asks the Government to report back to Stortinget as appropriate when this assessment is available. I think that is a good answer to the problem that is being raised, and a neat procedure to be able to follow up further. A broad majority of the Committee also points out that the Customs and Fees Directorate has been asked to assess some minor adjustments in the demarcations and to submit proposals for amendments to the excise duty regulation at general consultation. I am pleased that it is a broad majority who propose that the document be annexed to the protocol, and with that I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1059	In Norway, there is a separate sugar levy on cane and juice, and the government justifies the government’s levy on the state budget because of the fact that cane is one of the main causes of excess sugar consumption in the population. This is technically a different charge than the sugar charge that affects chocolate and sugar products. In 2008, the rate of the levy was DKK 1.68 per litre, while the rate for 2013 was DKK 3.06 per litre. So the representatives of the red-greens have increased the fee by over 80 pst. in a few years. In an alternative state budget for 2013, the Progress Party has opposed the increases in, among others, the border trade package. Despite the fact that the charge is justified on the grounds that sugar is harmful to health, light showers are included in the charge. The Meierimonopolistic Tine, on the other hand, avoids the charge on many of its products. There is a tax exemption for flavoured milk with less than 1,5 pst. with added sugar. Juice producers have to pay the fee, irrespective of the amount of added sugar. If the objective of the sugar levy on cane was actually to reduce the consumption of sugar in the population, the levy would be linked to the amount of added sugar in the product. In that case, the fee could also have been more pedagogical, formal name than the current ‘non-alcoholic beverage charge’. This is a sugar-free pastel. Despite the fact that it has no sugar, it is charged the same fee as chocolate and sugar confectionery. The same applies to sugar-free chewing gum and drops. The levy on chocolate and sugar products covers, according to Section 1 of the Stockholm decision on the levy on chocolate and sugar products for 2013, also products to which no sugar has been added. The charge distinguishes between products to end-users and products that are raw material for the manufacture of goods. The question is how to define what is what. In Circular No. 5/2013 S from the Excise Tax Department finds one, for example: the following limitations relating to the hook, which are free of charge if ‘is crushed after it has stiffened’, but subject to a charge if ‘it is shaped like plates, rods, figures, balls, etc.’. [[...]] The proposers believe that the red tape associated with the demarcation of sugar levies can be made more effective if the levy is made more appropriate. Showers, chocolate and candy are among the goods that are largely traded in Sweden. Increased border trade results in a decline in sales of Norwegian products, a threat to Norwegian jobs, and traditional breweries and enterprises are at risk of being shut down. Furthermore, the proposers point out that in 2010 the Customs and Charges Directorate assessed whether the EU proposal for new rules on the labelling of the total sugar content of food and drink can be used as a basis for a new, general sugar levy, which is based on sugar content. I see that there is a debate on whether alternative sweeteners are harmful to health, but in this context it will show that the tax decision on the 2013 state budget does not distinguish between the different sweeteners. If a single alternative sweetener proves to be highly harmful to health, more drastic measures are available to reduce consumption than taxes, for example: the total prohibition. It is also worth noting that the Scientific Committee on Food Safety concluded in March 2007. NOU 2007:8, from the Excise Tax Committee, states that ‘increased consumption of sugary soft drinks is associated with weight gain and obesity, while intake of sweeteners does not result in increased energy intake or weight gain’. It goes on to say: ‘All in all, the use of the substances aspartame, saccharin, cyclamate and sucralose in shower, juice and nectar does not appear to give rise to health concerns.’ These results were also supported by the European Food Safety Authority in 2011. In the 2006 state budget, the Bondevik II Government presented proposals to remove the excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages without added sugar. The proposal was promoted in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In the budget decision, which was made by the new, red-green, government, this was not continued, on the grounds that one should wait until the Scientific Committee on Food Safety had concluded, a conclusion I have referred to. I also point out that it has been claimed by the Ministry that there are difficult limitations that must be made in such a conversion. I am aware that bureaucracy is heavy red, but even I am able to read the product declaration that is behind most products, whether it is shower or drop, and it says how much sugar the product contains. In addition, Denmark has a differentiated system for products without sugar. They have managed to create such a system — in Norway, it is clearly not possible to do so. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1088	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1091	Yes, sugar fees are a bit of a matter! Right-hand parts of the angle of incidence held by the Party of Progress. At the same time, when I think the case rapporteur has good and wise remarks, and also the Minister of Finance, in his feedback to the Committee, it makes us have to deal with reality: this is so difficult to get, that if you have to vote for something, you have to know that you can actually do it at the other end. I'm a little in doubt about it. That's why I'm glad we're going to be in government with the bourgeois parties, so we can be more in control of this from the inside than taking too good fish what the Minister of Finance says, even if that's certainly true. So the practical thing here, it's a bunch of rates. I went into the Customs and Charges Directorate's pages to read a little about just the sugar charge itself, which is one of three sugar-related charges. That's 36 pages -- that's a lot. This with the broken hook, the broken hook or the whole hook and stuff like that, the majority of the parties in the notes warn that they should look at – not only the unfortunate and strange rashes, but you should also have a review with the Food Authority and the Health Directorate to look at the technical things, how to actually measure this. In sum, there are objections that do not change the idea that it may be simplistic to make one general sugar charge that involves everything, but it seems that we need to know a lot more than we do now before we can do it. The right agrees with the aim of the Progress Party, but we see the objections that come from the ministry, and we therefore choose to wait. That is why we are also pleased that the government does not reject the proposal, but that it is annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1100	I think it is starting to become an increasing looseness here in the hall in order to sell the skin before the bear is shot – or as he said, the heathmark; sell the bear before the skin is shot – and look forward to this hunting date, 9 September. We'll get back to it when the election has been. Back to sugar fees: I can assure the representative Svendsen that this is an area where the government is working a lot to see if it is possible to arrive at a good system with regard to the sugar charge. We have spent a lot of time working on it, and finding a good, unbureaucratic and sensible solution to the graduated sugar charge is incredibly difficult. And that's also the reason why you added it. In the case of the sugar levy itself, or excise duties on non-alcoholic beverages, chocolate and sugar products, sweets and pastilles added to sweeteners, the main reason for the charge is a recommendation from the health authorities and from a public health point of view. I am concerned that we in Norway should have arrangements to help improve public health, but it is a prerequisite – in my view – that it is possible to practice, for example. if a user of the charging system does not create unnecessary red tape. It is tempting to refer to what has happened in Denmark, where a fat tax was introduced at the same time as a proposal to extend the Danish chocolate tax. As you know, the fat tax was phased out quite quickly, and the proposal to extend the chocolate levy in Denmark has been considerably reduced because one would have enormous administrative consequences. The representative Svendsen pointed to this with the hook, and I understand that it might look strange. However, today’s limitations have gone beyond time, and there are also a few charging establishments registered by the charging authorities, where charges are not particularly bureaucratic. But – as a comfort to the representative Svendsen – during the autumn of 2013, we will assess some minor limitations of the chocolate and sugar levy and also send proposals to the hearing. In consultation with the Ministry of Health and Health, we have assessed a conversion of the fee to a more general sugar charge in food and drink. The background to that discussion and assessment was a recommendation from the so-called Excise Excise Commission. The intention was – as I said before – to try to design a more accurate fee instrument to limit the harmful use of sugar. We have mentioned this in the 2013 budget, and, as I said – as the rapporteur also pointed out – it has proved difficult to find a good order. A significant obstacle is also the lack of common rules in the EEA area. I would advise against – with good experience from work – a proposal for a graduated sugar tax. If sugar levies should continue to cover sugar-free products in the future, I will be able to return to them once the health authorities have completed their assessment. It is an area that is important to focus on, and I would like to contribute to a discussion if it is possible to find more accurate arrangements in the case of, for example, the addition of sugar and sugar levies. But so far we haven't found a proper solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1131	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1138	We are all aware that good work and active efforts are important to prevent smuggling and illegal immigration. Much good work has already been done on both the police and customs, and much will be strengthened in the future. The revised national budget, to be discussed by the Grand Duchy on 21 June, also increases the level of commitment to this work. One of the main objectives of the Customs and Fees Act is to prevent the entry and export of illegal goods to Norway. This means that the floor is continuously working against smuggling. Since 2005, the government has strengthened the border control significantly. It's worth about 180 million. kr for this work. Of this, it's over 100 million. EUR 75 million for investment, while the budget's operating framework has been strengthened. kr in this area. The government has also given the department new powers in the border control. In addition to cross-border camera surveillance, a test project using an expression drive along the border with Sweden is launched in these days. With this background, I do not see the need for a separate action plan against smuggling and illegal immigration. Scanners are an effective and decisive tool in border control, and the customs department has a plan for the replacement of scanner equipment. The Customs and Charges Directorate has recommended mobile scanners, which, following risk assessments, can be used in whole – and, if necessary, across – customs regions, rather than providing fixed scanners at all border crossings. In the revised 2013 national budget, the government proposes to increase the number of border crossings with cameras. When it comes to storage time, the Ministry of Finance sent out in February this year a hearing on a proposal for new legal destinations for customs control. The proposal contained, inter alia: a legal secret that illustrates a more general access to electronic presence at the border. After the proposal, the customs office should be able to store the camera observations for as long as they see the need, but no longer than one year. There are several hearing bodies that have commented on this part of the proposal, and the ministry is working on this and on any legislative proposal. Entry and exit checks on persons shall be carried out at the external Schengen border, unless temporary border controls have been introduced at the internal Schengen border under the Foreign Affairs Act § 14. In the case of the Schengen Information System Registry, SIS, the Customs and Charges Directorate will have its own access to this in 2013. But they don't have access to the View Information System, VIS, and one doesn't consider it relevant to change it either. As one can see from the setting, all parties – apart from the proposers – are some about the comments, but perhaps not about the decision, for the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to attach the proposal to the protocol, while the majority suggest that the proposal is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1157	There is no doubt that the customs and tax haven in Norway is doing a good job of revealing both illegal immigration and drug trafficking, despite the resources available to them. The customs tariff depends on good equipment and enough equipment, and it depends on good officials and enough officials to carry out its task. The challenges facing this department are great. We still see media headlines saying that there have been large seizures of drugs at the various border stations in Norway. It's positive, but we also know that the numbers of darkness are great, and the customs department itself says that they only manage to take a fraction of what's coming. With regard to illegal immigration, there are also some challenges. Over Svinesund there are four trains in the day from Sweden. In 2011, the customs office carried out 26 checks. It concerns a disappearing small part of the trains that crossed the border. In 2011, they averaged 1.2 people as illegal immigrants. In 2012, this increased to between 5 and 6. Then it is clear that there is a need for resources to be put in place to get control of this. There are a lot of people coming, there are a lot of illegal immigrants, and it is a great advantage for Norway to stop these and possibly get them sent back. The customs department itself says that it could have taken more on the same train during some of the checks, but the problem is that the foreign police only have two employees in Hedmark. They will cover the whole state and have no opportunity to do a better job than they do, when they are so few. With regard to the proposal itself, when you draw up an action plan for specific things — in this case, smuggling and illegal immigration — it will be much focused on it. And it's important to focus on this particular challenge. Smuggling and illegal immigration are a major challenge for Norway, and it is also important to focus on it. I have never heard that it has been harmful for a matter to make action plans. In the case of scanners, it is of course desirable that there be as many as possible and that each border station in Norway has the possibility to use them. Today it is only in South Norway that you have the opportunity. North Norway has it only exceptionally when the mobile scanners can be transported there. It would have been desirable that all major transitions had a scanner, and that smaller transitions had mobile scanners available. The same applies to camera monitoring equipment. It will be a great advantage that most transitions have camera equipment, but the most important thing is that they have a storage time on data that allows both the customs office and the police to review these data before the end of the storage period. According to the department itself, an hour is somewhat dirty, to say it mildly. The Progress Party has proposed a week, which will help the situation considerably, but if today's government parties propose a year, we should not ignore the fact that the Progress Party will support such a proposal. But maybe it'll work out after the election anyway. With regard to access to the Visa Information System and the Schengen Information System, it should be understood that the customs tariff has access to this and the possibility to use it. First of all, the customs and levy rate is first inside the picture and is in the first line. Secondly, this will also relieve the police, who are strictly not over-funded and have over-capacity on resources. So such an approach will be a great advantage, both for the customs and for the police, and for the Norwegian community. We ask in this proposal that the customs and charging seat be given limited police authority. Limited police authorities mean that they have authority in specific areas. This includes the possibility to expel and return persons who have entered the country illegally. It is said that this is not compatible with the Foreign Affairs Act. However, if the customs and fees seat gets limited police authority, it is in line with the Foreign Affairs Act – it can be carried out, and I think it would be a great advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1174	I believe that the representative should also address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1177	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1182	The representative of Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1185	The efforts now made by the government in the context of the revised budget – by strengthening camera surveillance and strengthening mobile facilities – are being supported by the Right. We've also written in the notes along with the government parties and the other parties. We do not want a separate plan to combat smuggling and illegal immigration in addition to the plans already in place. It's just to do this we have police, customs and customs departments, and they run on good terms. The Financial Committee will soon reach Svinesund and look at the customs office and facilities there. We've also been to Finnmark and seen the equivalent. We have had a dialogue on border crossings, and ‘enlarged police force’ is almost already in place by the fact that the Minister of Finance has actually given customs the opportunity to use blue light. When it comes to extending it – either to apprehension, detention or other things proposed by the Progress Party – the Right has said that there may be good reasons for this in some areas, but one cannot necessarily adopt it right above the table. There has to be a completely different investigation and a fundamental argument and approach to determining who should actually be allowed to have police authority in Norway. So I don't have to say that much more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1196	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1199	I take up the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1204	The representative Arve Kambe then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1208	Thank you, I think the representative Kambe has now made an exemplary contribution. That's good, and it shows that there's quite a broad consensus on this. I would also like to say to the representative of the Progress Party that yes, the customs tariff is a good budget; it does a good job. There is no doubt about it, and I would also like to say that this government has made a significant contribution to ensuring that the customs tariff is done in a good and sensible way. The fact that the customs department reveals significant amounts of contraband, both at border crossings and at airports, is proof that they are both good and that a person has been given resources that enable the customs office to do his job in a good way. I refer to the letter that I sent to the committee, which comments on the individual proposals, but I want to make a few clarifications. There's a work division between customs and police. It is the customs office that is responsible for goods flows out and in from the country, while the police and therefore the Ministry of Justice are responsible for personal control. There's a good cooperation between these floors that I'm going to come back to. Just so you say, over the last eight years, you've increased the border control appropriations by less than 200 million. kr – around 180 mill. kr. The brother part of it has gone to investment, approx. One hundred million. kr, including purchase of scanners and other equipment used on the border, while approx. 75-80 million. kr has been used to strengthen the operating framework and thus also the manning of the floor. In the case of scanners, it's absolutely right that they give good results. There are some border crossings that have scanners that are stuck on the floor – so to speak – not mobile scanners. They require quite a lot of resources, but at the same time they have a very good effect. In addition, we have mobile scanners that prove to have very good effect because one can put them in where the need is greater. What we're planning on is upgrading and replacing old scanners, and we'll also look at the possibility of acquiring new equipment, but of course it's also a budgetary issue. Then I will also refer to what is in the revised national budget, where we propose to strengthen border control through cameras. With regard to the possible police authority to the customs office, I think the representative Kambe had a good post, and I think that as we have it today, it works in a good way. I do not see the need to change the division of labour between customs and police. There was some nonsense about the clock, but I'm not going to talk any more now – this was the Minister of Finance's contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1225	Then Morten Ørsal Johansen drew a line, but there are no lines in this case. It's possible to get the word anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1228	Then we're going to turn the line into a short piece. It was good to hear that the customs department has been given the blue light. It was after pressure and suggestions from the Progress Party, although the government spent years and days finding out that this was a trick. As far as police authorities are concerned, there is certainly something today's government will spend year and day to find out if is tricked. But that's an advantage, there's no doubt about it. Today, when we have a hunting supervision that has limited police authority, but not a customs and tax seat that has it, I can't quite understand the logic. I would like to know if the Council of State has any logical explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1237	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1251	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1260	The issue now under consideration is the financing of basic welfare services, and the proposal consists of several elements: the introduction of state funding for basic welfare services in municipalities, the introduction of free municipal taxpayers, the return of company taxes to municipalities and the introduction of an objectively differentiated population grant. There is nothing unknown in these proposals. The Progress Party's very specific approach to financing the basic welfare services in the municipalities has been the subject of several occasions in this Chamber. Let me, however, give some consideration to the proposals. There is no doubt that the introduction of a funding system in which the State has financial responsibility, while the municipalities are still required to provide services, will result in a severe reduction in municipal autonomy. It is an honest matter in itself, but I have to be allowed to say that I find it in stark contrast to the celebrations of local self-government that the representatives of the Progress Party have the habit to perform when, for example, we do. discusses land management issues in this room. It is close to concluding that, in the opinion of the Progressive Party, municipal autonomy shall consist of being free to build up the coastal zone, while being responsible for both financing and producing the heavy and basic welfare services shall no longer be a municipal task. I think it's worth noting. The position of the Labour Party and the rest of the majority is that the possibility of making local priorities, of finding local solutions close to the population, is an essential part of municipal autonomy. In addition to the democratic aspects, it is worth discussing what becomes the actual practical consequences of such a proposal. Firstly, there is little doubt that a clean designation of this type will provide weaker incentives for cost control and efficient resource use. Within an overall framework for the local economy, it will mean a lower supply where the services are not legally and publicly funded. Secondly, I believe that there is every reason to fear strong bureaucracy. You don't need a lot of imagination to think about what kind of state apparatus is going to do to deal with a system where each user has to have his personal decision to grant according to a state criterion set. Worsening users’ health and emerging needs will require new decisions, and it is certain that health and needs will change as you get older. The Minister of Finance writes about the administrative costs in his reply to the Stortinget and is among other things. admitted that the State would have to develop criteria for the grants and manage the scheme through follow-up and control. Municipalities, for their part, must use resources for applications and for reporting to the State. It is strange that a party that is usually critical of unnecessary bureaucracy believes that this is a good idea. With regard to the proposal for objectively differentiated population grants, I would like to comment briefly on the fact that the population grant constitutes the majority of the municipality's framework grant and is initially distributed at an equal amount per capita. The cost-balancing process is intended to compensate municipalities for differences in costs that they cannot affect themselves. The cost key is based on objective criteria that ensure redistribution from light-powered to heavy-duty municipalities, and it is the main point of today’s financing model. Our attitude towards free municipal taxpayers and the return of company taxes to the municipalities is explained in the position, but I would like to point out that the municipalities in connection with the fact that the company tax refund scheme – when it was removed – was compensated for other revenues. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to take a look. The proposal to introduce state funding for fundamental welfare tasks involves a major shift in the way of funding municipalities, and it violates the basic principle of framework funding, which a broad majority decided in this room 20 years ago. The party to the progress is entirely alone in the proposal, but when it is re-encouraged at the end of this process, it offers that there is nothing that the party intends to abandon in any government negotiation. We already know that there is a fundamental disagreement between the Right and the Advance Party on financing the hospital sector, the same applies to the transport sector, and we now see it in the municipal sector. We're going to meet exciting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1279	The background to this proposal is that today we see many examples of people in the municipality of Norway not getting the services that they are entitled to and that they should have. We see that there are cows in order to get a place at the hospital, we see that there are cows in order to get welfare services in the municipalities, and we also sometimes see that some people have to move from the municipality to the municipality to get good enough services that have a satisfactory quality. This is unworthy, and the Progress Party will do something about it. That's why we think that the obsolete funding system we have today, which thus lays the foundation for the urimelicities that we see in Kommune-Noreg, must be corrected. Today, there is mainly framework funding and little earmarked means, and this means that money that should initially have gone to care for the elderly and to school can also go to cultural buildings or other monumental buildings in the municipalities. That is why we have a proposal for a representative here, which has a number of points that Mrs Marthinsen, the President-in-Office of the Council, also went into. Unfortunately, when it comes to her conclusion that this would lead to more bureaucracy, it is as bad as it can be. We want first of all to have government funding for basic welfare services in the municipalities. So it's not a bureaucratic system – it's a simple system. It will also ensure that citizens receive the services they require, regardless of whether they live in a rich or poor municipality. They will receive these services, regardless of the policy priorities, because the money will follow the user. This will not weaken local democracy, this will strengthen local democracy, and most importantly – this will strengthen the rights of the individual inhabitants of the municipalities. The case-leader mentions that this is a special financing method that only the Progress Party is behind. No, that's not right, because when we introduced the kindergarten reform, the kindergartens were funded exactly this way. One had a single-priced funding for kindergartens. It worked very well – the municipalities gave feedback that this worked quite well. A payment was made according to the number of children you had in kindergarten, and the number of hours you had in kindergarten. One had also differentiated, assuming that it was more expensive to run kindergartens some places in the country than other places. So let's talk about babysitting – this should be part of a framework. Now the municipalities are to receive child care funding based on the number of children living in the municipality, not on the number of children living in the kindergarten, but on the number of children living in the municipality and the level of education of the mothers. The feedback we get from it – which at least the Progress Party gets, and which I believe others get – is that this is a bureaucratic and inefficient system. They want to go back to the way it was funded before, with price financing. Resource-requiring services are today also funded in the same way that the Progress Party will have its funding system, and that works. Then don't move to other municipalities to get better services, as we've unfortunately seen examples of. The extra tragedy with users of welfare services having to move from one municipality to another municipality is that with today's framework funding system, it's the municipality they move from, that thinks financially about it, and the municipality they move to, that loses on it. In other words, it is not profitable for Kommune-Noreg to provide good services if this means that new users move to the municipality. Such a system that the Progress Party will have, with the basic welfare services in the municipalities being publicly funded, will result in the money following the user. In addition, we want municipalities to retain part of the corporate tax. We also want free tax assets – today it is equal to taxes for all municipalities, and many municipalities are afraid to do something about it because they are afraid that they will be punished. And then we also want an objective, differentiated, built-in supplement. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has, either alone or in conjunction with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1298	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1301	The local self-government in Norway is, in my opinion, a brand of nobles that the Stortinget is going to take for the most part. But it's a nobility that's lost a little bit of attachment after eight years of red-green rule. So although we are voting against the proposals of the Progress Party today, there is no doubt that a close cooperation partner in central administration of Norwegian municipalities is the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party during this period. We see that attacks on local self-government were still coming from the red-green government. Projects are started up, within e.g. kindergartens, psychiatry or other state reform packages, where the state enters a start-up phase with large funds, and thereafter the funds are not included. They talk about local self-government, but introduce rights-based laws that municipalities are not able to follow afterwards. It goes beyond local self-government, and it's for the right a completely different direction than we want. As far as the framework funding system is concerned, the Right strongly supports it, because we believe that we will then have local processes with local anchoring, and local politicians who actually get through, and who would like to make choices when they get the opportunity to do something. If local politicians are to be puppets for the Stortinget, they will not get the politicians that individual municipalities need. For the right, the issue of the content of the municipal, and also for the county councils, services are as important as who actually finances them. Whether it is the State that finances them through a single price finance, or a state provision of the framework transfer, it is regardless of the country's money to be used in municipalities. We see that municipalities are making provision for regulatory plans that are more and more overrun by state agencies and that are further trained by the Ministry of the Environment. That's why the Right has, among other things, to the effect that, in order to ensure local self-government also in matters of planning and area, the right of objection must be restricted to the county councillors and the right of appeal to the Ministry of the Environment must be transferred to the Ministry of Local Affairs. It's one thing to make local self-government better. There is no doubt that the municipal structure that we have today has considerable room to operate better, in the short term, with greater use of inter-municipal cooperation, but of course also with community mergers, of which most parties in the Stortinget want more, but in different ways. We have put forward a proposal, which I am referring to here, with regard to corporate tax. It introduced the President when he was Minister of Finance in the last government. At that time it was possible that municipalities that were committed to industrial development could also retain part of the corporate tax paid by local companies. This was zeroed out quite quickly by Stoltenberg and the red-green government, which has meant that the municipalities can now make money only by establishing residential areas. We all see that inter-municipal cooperation, with more and better public transport and more transport projects, makes it possible for many regions now to have a single-track labour market, and thus to pursue industrial development policies also in the areas of land. Right-wing belief in local politicians, we believe in local self-government, and we believe that local self-government is a mark of Norwegian policy – the Norwegian model, if that was the case. We have solutions other than the proponents from the Progress Party, but as I said, I mention the proposal on corporate tax, which is a completely different thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1325	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1328	I have to take the floor on this matter because the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting here is a proposal which will in substance lead to two things. One will be to reduce the distribution of resources between municipalities in Norway. Company taxes and taxpayers are two elements that are important for the allocation of resources between municipalities. This proposal by the Progress Party would contribute to the favour of the resource-rich municipalities, with heavy business and high population, and the rest of the Municipality of Norway would be weakened. Not many municipalities in Norway would earn it financially. Of course, there would have been consequences for welfare services in the many municipalities that would have had a significant cut in their resources. The second element of the proposal is that the State should assume responsibility for the financing. This would partly be a wrong concept, because it is the state that finances the municipal sector, so the State has the overall responsibility. However, the difference here is that instead of the local authorities getting the framework — and the ability to use resources as efficiently as possible, targeting local conditions, whether in the case of nursing homes, schools or whatever — the state should sit and administer a single price system vis-à-vis the municipal sector. The party of progress appears in the Stortinget as the Süveren of the Stortinge Price Party, most of which are to be distributed through a single price system. The State shall take over a large part of the municipality's resources and budget framework and finance it through a single price system. This means centralisation of decision-making powers and a weakening of the ability of local government to prioritise and subsequently also the establishment of a state bureaucracy to administer this single-cost financing. And if I'm not mistaken, the Progress Party believes that this should also apply to the school sector – primary school. I would like to be corrected if I am wrong, but I have also seen those suggestions. In total, the Progress Party believes that both care and care services, the local health service, and primary school should be financed through a state-wide price system, i.e. centralisation and the construction of a bureaucracy. In addition, a distribution is introduced which means that there are a few resource-rich municipalities with high population levels to benefit from this. This is in total a proposal for increased differences, centralisation of decision-making powers and increased state bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1337	The President appreciates the fact that all the speech goes through him, but regrets not being able to tell anything about what the individual parties had to think about the individual question. It'll be a little later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1340	The party of progress is a tribute to the local People's Government. The party of progress believes that the same government of the people is devastating in order to preserve the basic welfare services. There will be a brief summary of the draft representative we are discussing on financing the local government sector. The step-by-step party wants to introduce free municipal tax assets. In the Center Party, we have sympathy for freer tax dollars within an interval of, for example, 0,5-1 pst. – up or down. The progress party will go significantly further. Our argument for a freer tax ear has been linked to the need to invite the voters on a plentiful basis, for example. to build a high priority hospital or a very necessary school. This may require a time-limited period of some higher municipal income. The Progress Party's free tax credits shall not be used to strengthen the provision of care or to the school; it is the tasks that my municipalities should not be responsible for financing. The municipalities, with the Progress Party's model, will also be left with some tasks, but not the big ones – those that create debate locally, the things where the inhabitants really get involved in the solutions. Then I think there is an attempt to talk about the vitalization of local self-government through the introduction of free tax ears. An important intention with the Progress Party’s proposal seemed to be to dismantle the entire income system for municipalities. In today’s system, the cost of providing different services is used as a basis for the allocation of framework transfers. But the fact that it is more expensive to run a school or a health service in a municipality with large distances and little population than in a municipality with large population and short distances, one should look away from whether I understand it correctly. One should also ignore the fact that the tax base varies considerably between municipalities. It applies not only between district municipalities and central municipalities, but for example: also within counties such as Akershus and Rogaland. Many think there are too many income differences between municipalities today. With the Progress Party's model, the differences will increase dramatically. This will also apply to school provision and care for the elderly, because one is required to give the government transfers after the number of residents and through corporate taxes, not at different costs of providing equivalent services. Municipal corporation tax was made state-owned in 2009 but so that the income loss was compensated for in the framework transfers. There were 33 municipalities that lost on that conversion, and almost 400 municipalities that got out better. In addition to giving very different distributions between municipalities, municipal corporation tax is subject to large differences from year to year. Nor is there any evidence that he is important to stimulate efforts for industrial development. It is well established companies that pay corporation tax. Differences between people will increase with the Progress Party model. It seems that the proposers think it's a sweet effect. ‘Objectively differentiated population grants’, they call the state transfers to schools and care and say that municipalities are responsible for structuring their services after the allocation they receive. I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the Financial Committee that rejects this model of funding for the municipal sector and the tasks for which the municipalities should be responsible. Let me sum up in three points: The proposal will increase inequalities in service provision in the country, depending on where you live. It also applies to the provision of education and health care. The proposal will remove the municipal incentive to operate effectively because the state is given financial responsibility for the main welfare services. The proposal will weaken the need and interest of citizens to participate in local policies, as government authorities will assume responsibility for more than half of the municipal service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1370	The proposers raise an interesting issue, and the setting and, to the extent that this debate also shows clear dividing lines between the government parties and the opposition. The government parties are concerned that all municipalities should be as equal as possible and do the same, while the Left is concerned about having a high degree of freedom to do the tasks in its own way for its citizens in each municipality. Unfortunately, we have left behind some years when the state is constantly transferring more tasks to the municipalities, preferably accompanied by strong rights legislation. Local authorities are experiencing an increasing imbalance between the tasks and expectations imposed and the economic space in which they actually operate. This reduces the power of local elected representatives and makes them a kind of state branch. The left will strengthen local self-government and give people greater influence over their own everyday lives. Local self-government is increasingly restricted by state detail management and is losing ground to state regulations and circulars. I believe that the centralisation of power is serious and undesirable – especially because there is a need to shift more power and more tasks to local democracy. Therefore, the left considers that municipalities must retain more of their own tax revenues and have greater freedom to introduce their own taxes and levies for specific purposes – as the representative Meltveit Kleppa also had in his post – or equivalent freedom to abolish and/or reduce different taxes and taxes. New tasks entrusted to municipalities by the State must be financed through increased transfers. Me and the Left will also work to reduce the number of government opposition authorities so that municipal procedures are easier. It should make it easier for citizens and local elected representatives to deal with government authorities. We will therefore introduce a freer municipal taxpayer, reduce the financial detailed management of municipalities and give municipalities the opportunity to receive all state funding as free resources. We believe that in the Left will give real freedom and a real diversity in the Commune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1383	This is an interesting discussion with many good posts so far, I think, so I'll try to limit myself to a few comments. Firstly, it is important to stress that if municipalities are to be able to provide good services, they must have sufficient income. It has been and is highly prioritised by this government, so over the last few years, Kommune-Norway has experienced a significant real improvement in its income. That's the one. The second is that we have also made changes to the income system, which better distributes income between municipalities, and this is related to the fact that there should also be opportunities for small and resource-impaired municipalities to provide their citizens with a good service. In the case of corporate tax, the representative Meltveit Kleppa argued that the scheme before 2009 had major weaknesses. It swung very with business cycles. For this government it is important to be able to provide the most predictable framework conditions for Kommune-Norge. It is important for municipalities, which it is also important for businesses. Many of the welfare services provided by municipalities are aware that there are quite predictable expenditures that grow steadily, year after year, with a sum of older people, for example. and the growth of wages and salaries, and it is also important that municipalities have the most predictable income in this context. I would also like to comment on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Left on a free municipal taxpayer. Today, to the extent that the municipalities have a theoretical possibility within today's system, but the last municipality that used to have lower taxpayers was the municipality of Sem in Vestfold, which in 1978 went up at the top level of the free municipal taxpayer. This raises several issues, including: raises a problem about what happens if the municipality reduces the tax. Should other municipalities, through the income system, compensate for the decision of a municipality to reduce the tax, for example:? So I believe that both predictability of the municipality and not least predictability of the personal tax system make me advise against such a proposal. I would also like to remind you that the first case we are dealing with today during the long series of document proposals was about the municipal property tax. It is true that municipalities have the possibility to print municipal property taxes, which many municipalities have used. It is then up to the municipality itself to argue – somewhat in line with the representative of Meltveit Kleppa – that the property tax is then earmarked for an important purpose in order to gain a greater understanding of the introduction of property tax in the municipality. Finally, I would just like to point out that the principle that we have had since the mid-1980s on framework financing for the local government sector is incredibly important to maintain. During the treatment of Report. St. 12 for 2011–2012 State and municipality – management and interaction last autumn were all in the hall, with the exception of the Progress Party, agreed that the principles of state governance of the municipalities, including the framework management, continue. That's what I think was a good attitude, and it shows that there's a broad majority in the Stortinget behind the way we're dealing with the relationship between state and municipality today. That's what I think I'm pointing forward, and then I'm not going further than that. There's also an interesting discussion in a slightly different context, but we'll get back to that after 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1403	The debate highlights the importance of framework funding for the municipal sector in maintaining local self-government. In the past, childcare facilities in municipalities received government funding based on the number of children who went to kindergarten and the length of time they went there. So this was put into practice, and this went into the framework funding. It was then that the number of children in the municipalities, not how many went to kindergarten, but how many in the municipalities – and also the level of education of the mothers – decided the funding. That means that the children of an assistant were given less funding than the children of a doctor. My question to the Minister of Finance is: How has the conversion from need-driven government funding of kindergartens to framework funding of kindergartens strengthened local self-government? Can the Minister of Finance give an example of how this has strengthened local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1412	It was an important prerequisite when one went into this with full child care coverage, that one after a period of earmarked grants should leave this to the municipalities through the framework management. I believe that within it the municipalities have considerable freedom to impose requirements on kindergartens, to distribute the need among different parts of the municipality, so one has a great freedom there. But what is an important issue, and which has not been dealt with in this discussion, is the relationship between earmarked schemes and framework funding, i.e. more generally, because the more earmarked schemes you have, and the more legal mandates you have to the municipalities, the more it affects municipal autonomy. So the Minister of Finance is a very strong supporter for the municipalities being financed through the framework grant, and I am very confident that the municipalities will be able to develop a good service offer on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1419	I have come to understand that the Minister of Finance and the Red-Green parties are very strong supporters of framework funding. I have also been told that one in any case afterwards sees that it was a premise that one should be transferred to the framework funding of the kindergartens. So my question wasn't whether this was a conscious policy. My question was how did this happen from the need-driven state funding of kindergartens, where municipalities were paid from the number of children and the length of time they spent in kindergarten, until framework funding has strengthened local self-government. It's pretty much the same kids who go to kindergarten. These are the same costs and they are the same requirements for municipalities. I don't understand this, and that's why I'm asking for help from the Minister of Finance: can he explain how changing the funding from needs-driven government funding to framework funding for the nursery sector has strengthened local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1426	There's basically no fundamental difference between what's happening in kindergartens and what's already happening in primary school. Primary school is a statutory service to be provided by all municipalities, but at the same time the grant to primary school is provided in the form of a framework. This means that the municipality, for example: is responsible for assessing the structure, and the municipality has the opportunity to develop local policies in this area. So in principle, it's the exact same thing as what happens in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1431	One of the most familiar with local self-government is that local politicians can see the consequences of local decisions quickly afterwards. It may be that residential areas are filled with new inhabitants, business areas may be filled with new jobs, and many do so to finance. For many of the municipalities that are growing, with new residents, have school, kindergarten, culture, SFO – what it might be. Earlier, when the right-hand side fell, the time for counting was 1 January of the financial year. It benefited municipalities in growth, which have relatively high investment costs and operating costs. The first thing the next government did was push this over to July 1. This means that many municipalities of growth lose and have to cut in ordinary operation, because the government has taken away from them the real grant scheme – it could have been counted from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1438	I have a certain feeling that that very question belongs to another Council of State, namely the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. So I get to take note of the question, and then I hope and expect that the representative Kambe can also find an opportunity to ask the municipal minister about the counting method for municipal residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1443	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1448	For the Progress Party, local self-government is extremely important. When we debate it, I sometimes get the feeling that there is a part that puts something else in the notion of local self-government than what the Progress Party does. Some people think that there is the freedom of the councillor and the spokesperson in the municipalities, which is the decision of the local self-government. For the Progress Party, the local self-government is the inhabitants of the municipalities. It is the inhabitants of the municipalities who are at the centre of the Progress Party's policy. Our task and challenge is always to improve everyday life and services in the municipalities – to facilitate systems that allow the inhabitants of Municipality-Noreg to get a better everyday life. That is why we have put forward this proposal, which is based on need-driven state funding. Then a sure service should be funded by the state regardless of whether a cage in a rich or poor municipality. Both care for the elderly, health and schooling should be included under that system. To the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, I would say this should be differentiated. I also said that in my first post, there are some places where the services are more expensive than other places. This means that it would be more expensive to fund kindergarten and school in Utsira than it is. in Oslo. The same applies to Finnmark – parts of Finnmark will be more expensive than the central area of the West, for example. Bergen. That's why this is a good system, and I'm recording that there's no one who has any alternative to this system, except for the obsolete system that we have today, and that gives rise to a rash in the queues for the hospital, queues for the care of the elderly. There is much despair and frustration. When this is the case with corporate tax, there is an indication of which municipalities would be lost and not lost. For the Progress Party it is that the municipalities should retain part of the corporate tax, something more than the number of municipalities that would lose and not lose. We think it would be worthwhile to facilitate business; it would be worthwhile for the municipalities to spend money on regulatory plans that could provide a basis for good business and secure jobs. That's why we're going to go in order for some of the corporate tax to remain in the municipalities where the values are created. We also have a lot of faith in freer tax dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1460	I think I have registered a bit of criticism from the opposition, considering that Stortinget has so many cases to deal with this spring. It was the government that addressed this criticism – the government had presented so many cases after each other. Today’s agenda shows that Stortinget himself contributed to this figure of about 200 cases. The stork bites well. That's the way it should be. From Stortinget's side, there's a possibility to deal with your own issues. But I have to be allowed to say: when I now listen to Right's comments to the Progress Party's proposals, I believe that they are some of them about bringing company taxes back to the municipalities and thus contribute to increasing inequality in that particular field – so they want a few municipalities to be equipped with significant billions at the expense of others. But besides that, there's a lot of disagreement between each other in the blue-blue government option. Then it's that one might be able to explain that precisely, rather than that others of us are going to interfere here and participate with the Right in arguing down the Progress Party's proposal. But well, now we've got an additional clarification on how the Progress Party adds up to an increase in the differences between municipalities. So we hear that this so-called objective addition per capita is going to be differentiated. That is what is well done today. And we're told that the Progress Party is occupied by the residents of the municipalities. But that's why the red-green government has added new tasks, but also beyond 70 billion new ones to the provision for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1469	Gærmund Hageseter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1472	It was the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that made me take the floor again. So now it's going to be one step, and the right side is another step. So we have ambitions to be involved in multiples after the fall election, and the power relationship between the parties will be visible and will determine a lot when it comes to how that policy is going to be. But I want to say in any case that when the Center Party and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa start talking about disunity, one should initially listen, because there is something the Center Party opens up to. I thought that the representative Meltveit Kleppa should first of all look at the own party and get agreement there, and also within the red-green block. Then one lets us focus on the party positions that we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1479	I always think it's fun when representatives of the red-green parties actually signal that they have given up, and expect to lose the election, as Meltveit Kleppa has mentioned here. It inspires us. That being said, I would say that for the Right, local self-government is a nobility in Norwegian politics. For us, it is so important that we have a good cooperation with our local politicians to get the best out of Norway. We will be able to implement many of our ideas and solutions from the government offices, but also in cooperation with our many elected and not least re-elected rapporteurs. In the case of differences between the different batches of the Storting, it is clear that there are differences. We also see that in the red-green government. As far as local self-government is concerned, the Centre Party has lost case by case, not only in the red-green negotiations, but in obvious ballots where the Centre Party votes down proposals from a close overall opposition to strengthen local self-government and take power from the statesmen, as we understand that the representative Meltveit Kleppa would like to retain his power. We want county officials to have significantly less power over land issues in Norway. Here we have a government where objections are being dealt with today by the Swedish Ministry of the Environment, which repeatedly helps to maintain objections in the department, but also provides a good incentive for those who object to the county officials, to have them, because we see what happens to them when they come to the department. It's a delicate matter for the Center Party and an inspiration for an overall bourgeois opposition to strengthen local self-government. We will do this with both the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party in government. Another good example is the 100-metre zone. And it's bad land policy from the government in the case of agricultural property, that one can't dispose of properties. There are many things that the bourgeois parties are united about, and I think we get a strengthened local government sector with local politicians who actually get the opportunity to influence their own everyday life and their everyday lives to a greater extent than before. I think that the dissatisfaction that the Centre Party has after eight years of red-green government in terms of local self-government, we will not find in a civil government after the corresponding period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1496	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1499	I'm going to stick to the proposal we are discussing today, but I just want to say to everyone first: the centre party is irresistibly proud of what we, in cooperation with the Labour Party and SV, have got into these eight years of government, and not least in the municipal sector. When we talk about the income system for municipalities and the tasks and the framework transfers, of course, I'm impressed with an experience: I was the head of the Municipal Committee of Storting in 2001–2005. At that time, the Right Minister of the Municipalities. I was a parliamentary leader in the autumn of 2005. There wasn't one spokesman missing the Right in the Ministry of Local Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1506	Several have not asked for the word – well, Gunnar Gundersen has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1509	I had to take the floor when I heard that the Central Party is so “immortal proud” and also refers to what happened to the local economy in the previous period. There is no doubt that the municipalities had to take a horse-riding course in the first two years of the Bondevik II government, but the next two years were of the best years the municipalities have had. It is reflected in the government's own documents. If we compare the economic development of the municipalities in the period with the red-green period we now have, there is almost no difference in the financial structure of the municipalities in total. The last four years have been tighter than they were under the Bondevik II government – yes, it is, in fact, even though the representative Meltveit Kleppa shakes his head. In the last four years, the percentage increase in municipalities has been lower than it was during the Bondevik II government. We're going to start to stick to the numbers that the government itself presents in its propositions, and then we're going to talk about the economy as it is. When you also know that red-green politicians are extremely good at flying around and giving promises and creating expectations on behalf of local democracy, I understand that frustration is now quite great out there. The media headlines don't exactly indicate that there is brilliant municipal economy around.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1516	Then, after some consideration, the President cannot see any more speakers in the Chamber, much to say, and many have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1530	However, at the request of the Financial Committee, there is a speaking time schedule and the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government — if necessary. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1537	The case concerns a new tax agreement between the United Kingdom and Norway — or perhaps an extended tax agreement, since there is an old tax agreement from 2000. So this is from now on. It contains a number of points – a number of minor points, but also a few essential points. I just want to mention some of them: property loses protection fixed operating site taxation of services allocation to fixed operating site profits from business activities increased obligation to make corresponding corrections by income adjustment due to community interests I can keep saying a lot of things like that, but I'm assuming that the hall here is not so interested, so I'm dropping it. I'll take the first point, the property tax and the protection of wealth. Now it's like the United Kingdom doesn't have taxes on wealth. When people who may wish to move temporarily and partially live in the United Kingdom, however, have to pay taxes on wealth to Norway, it will be possible to pressure people with solid assets in Norway to move permanently to the United Kingdom. It is possible that it is a good goal for this government – it does not surprise me to the extent – but for the Progress Party there is no particularly attractive solution. If the United Kingdom had had a wealth tax, the problem would not have been the same. The progress party is promoting a proposal in this case that I hope everyone can join. I understand that it is always a bit embarrassing to join something that has not been said in the position, but nevertheless: the intention to avoid negative tax incentives when negotiating future tax agreements, as this tax agreement has, I also hope – at least in the spirit – that the Council of State will join, and I hope that the other opposition parties will join this note. The opposite would be if not a scandal, so at least not a very good case on behalf of Norway, if you do not have it as a starting point when negotiating agreements that are to be a bilateral commitment and – I kept saying – an amusement, but at least to bilateral pleasure. I take this up with the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1569	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1585	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1599	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1614	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1623	Bank crises have a huge cost to society. The international setback that followed the 2008 international financial crisis is a strong example of how severe and harmful crises in the banking system can be to the real economy and how long the effects of this type of crisis can be. That is why this is a very important proposition that the Storting should deal with, and I think it is positive that there is an overall committee which, with the exception of one request from parts of the opposition, joins the proposed rules of the government. There is some disagreement about the progress and timing of the case, and I will come back to it shortly afterwards. The financial crisis has shown us that Norwegian regulation of financial markets is fundamentally good and robust. In Norway, we have taken advantage of the lessons learned from our own banking crisis 20 years ago. Following the banking crisis, Norwegian authorities made greater demands on banks, improved financial legislation, strengthened supervision and modernised the deposit guarantee scheme. Together with order in government finances, contributions included: the lessons learnt from the time when the Norwegian economy was saved from the worst results of the international financial crisis this time. This experience of government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, but not the rest of the opposition, means that we should also be far ahead in the future, both in time and in the degree of regulation of the Norwegian financial system. As is well known at international level, there is a broad consensus on the need for stricter rules on capital requirements and supervision. Against this background, it is reasonable that the Storting should already clarify the rules that will apply in Norway in the coming years. There is a clarification of the financial industry itself has requested. Therefore, the new capital requirements are implemented in Norway earlier than we are obliged to under the EEA Agreement. Together with the Christian People's Party, government parties believe that conditions are well suited for a faster deployment in Norway now. First of all, the Norwegian economy is going well. This will make it easier for banks to strengthen their soundness of mind, including: because your earnings are good. Secondly, Norwegian banks are already solid and already meet many of the new requirements to be introduced. Thirdly, the securities market works well and gives banks good access to new capital. In many ways we in Norway are lucky to be able to take the debate on stricter regulation now, before a possible new crisis, and not in the midst of it, as many other countries have to. As regards new rules for Norwegian banks, it is of course necessary to balance the requirement of soundness against other considerations, such as competition from other banks, both inside and outside Norway. However, in this balance, it has been essential for us to stress that responsibility for financial stability lies primarily with the national authorities, because it is our own country that may have to bear the consequences of financial instability. Nor is it the case, as many claim, that Norway is the only country far ahead in time. Our neighbouring country Sweden is located for example. in many areas also far-reaching – both in time and in terms of regulation. As to whether the market situation affects Norwegian banks, I am uncertain. At least I don't think there's much to suggest. The market share of Norwegian banks has remained stable at 75 pst. of the Norwegian market in the last years. If we look at the stock exchange rate for the banks in question, they have partly risen sharply, even after an extensive public debate on stricter capital requirements for banks during the winter. Many, therefore, have faith that we are able to handle this in a good way. We are all aware that increased minimum own funds requirements as well as the phasing-in of four new buffer capital requirements could require a gradual increase in the original own funds coverage beyond the level of some banks today. However, all Norwegian banks already meet many of the requirements that come into force this year, and many of them are also well placed to meet the requirements of the coming years. The banks have so far strengthened their soundness mainly by holding back some of the profits they have accumulated during the period. They have also had a good opportunity to collect new equity from the owners and possibly other investors. Many of the solidity gains occurred at a much lower interest rate margin — e.g. on mortgages – and with lower profits than what we see banks have today. As I said, it is an overall committee that adheres to the capital requirements, as proposed in the proposal. It is a strength for the country and for the industry. I note that at least parts of the opposition are now on the move, but use the opportunity to criticise the government for process and other matters, but it is still gratifying that they are voting for a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1657	The regulation of banks and other financial activities is very central to ensuring the proper functioning of the economy. It is a central authority task to ensure that the financial system is robust enough to provide funding, to execute payments and to redistribute risk satisfactorily, both in times of ups and downs. This proposition therefore addresses issues of particular importance to the general economic activity. The Progress Party will point out that it is primarily in the interests of the central role of financial institutions throughout the economy that comprehensive regulatory regimes are established – not in the interests of financial institutions themselves. It has long been clear that financial institutions will meet new and more stringent core capital requirements in the near future. The financial institutions have responded to this and have had their own focus on strengthening their soundness before the requirements materialise in terms of requirements. They deserve to be commended for this. Increased equity costs. Someone has to pay. It may either take the form of a capital call, a holding of profits, lower dividends, higher interest margins or a combination thereof. All the instruments have been used to varying degrees since the financial crisis started in 2008, and we are a little surprised that the government parties in the media debate do not always seem to understand that the signals they have given, with regard to regulatory requirements, have consequences in the market. The focus on ensuring active competition and perhaps better to simplify the possibilities for the creation of banks without lowering the minimum capital requirements, deficiencies in the proposition and overall government policy. Strong competition, as we see it, is the only truly effective instrument to ensure that customers do not have to pay for a large part of the capital formation required by the requirements. There is a big difference between dealing with a crisis in a small single bank and in a systemically important bank. The financial institutions are navigable in financing all other activities in society. They circulate capital, and equity is the guarantee that they can live up to their obligations. Solidity becomes important to ensure access to capital and resilience to losses. Financial institutions shall also ensure the financing of businesses, jobs and the rest of the population. When equity requirements increase, capital access will be tightened. This is a challenge that is virtually not affected in the proposition. Norwegian households have increased their debt in percentage of disposable income strongly in recent years, and housing prices have increased sharply. This is suitable for strong concern, but there is much evidence that the tightening-up is currently the hardest thing in business. The bond market has increased significantly, but this market is in practice not available as a source of capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a clear weakness in the proposition that there has been no analysis of the objectives and the increased requirements for equity in banks in view of what it will mean for jobs and business. In the last round, the EU has highlighted the capital requirements for bank lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. The economic consequences are too weakly highlighted, and this requires very careful monitoring of developments. The total own funds requirement will increase from 8 pst. to 18 pst. if the countercyclic buffer also works fully. This is a level that is well above what is suggested as optimal in most investigations and analysis by the government itself refers to in the Financial Market Communication 2011. I would also like to point out that the capital requirements in force at all times will be minimum requirements that all banks and financial institutions will have to meet, whether they will avoid a risk of falling below in the event of loss or exceptional growth and thus experience the imposition of coercive measures. It is important to balance requirements against the tightening effect of requirements. It is the correct balance sheet to be found. Capital requirements are built up through several different types of buffer capital. A countercyclical buffer is also introduced. The Ministry of Finance, on the advice of the Bank of Norway, in consultation with the Financial Supervisory Authority, shall have that authority until further notice. The countercyclical buffer shall be capable of being introduced with a 12-month warning of up to 2,5 pst. of a risk-weighted balance sheet. It shall be immediately removable. I believe that a countercyclical buffer in theory is a sensible measure, but also something that can in practice be difficult to use. Predicting cyclical developments is very difficult and the risk is obvious that this buffer can easily become a sensuous or, at worst, a medcyclic buffer. These challenges have not been elucidated at all. We have noticed that the determination of buffer requirements should be based on the relationship between credit and GDP and its deviation from the long-term trend, but sees that this is a very rough-grain indicator and assumes that resources are used to find good indicators to ensure that the countercyclical buffer does not have an undesirable effect. The Government introduces new capital requirements six months before the entry into force of the capital law in the EU, for the first time on 1 July 2013 instead of on 1 January 2014. This means that financial institutions cannot use the annual profit for 2013 in the capital calculations. I am referring to the full application of the Basel III rules from 1 January 2019, while the government's proposal implies that the Norwegian rules will apply from 2016. I refer to the proposal from the Party of Advances, the Right and the Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1693	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1696	I think the case rapporteur is quite right: it is a very important matter, and there is quite a broad consensus that we should have solid banks in Norway. The banks are the very hub of the economy. It's those who provide credit access, and it's for the sake of the economy, and the total activity of the economy, that you regulate the banks, not for the banks themselves. I also want to give credit to the financial institutions in many ways. They have responded to expected increased demands ever since the financial crisis occurred in 2008. That's why we have banks that are quite well prepared for some of the requirements. There is also a great deal of consensus that the 20-year experience taught us a lot, and that we have ‘household’ good. There has been good regulation of Norwegian financial institutions, and there is something to say both that we have a financial sector that is of reasonable size in relation to the economy as a whole, and that we have solid banks. So I want to join the case rapporteur that there is a broad consensus on the overall objectives, that solid banks are important, and that financial institutions have the ability to tear the entire economy to the end if things go wrong correctly, as we have seen out. This is an overall committee behind it. At the same time, there must be reason to point out that the target is movable, in such a way that it is not easy to define what is the optimal level. It also reflects the Ministry’s own references to investigations into the appropriate level of capital in banks. Because it is clear that credit regulation has a counterbalance to this with growth capacity and financing of development outside the economy. For those who have registered it, we have just visited a fairly well-run professor from abroad, Stiglitz, and he has been reasonably critical of some of the measures that Europe has taken behind, and the way in which it has been done, both in terms of having little focus on the mitigation effects that many of the measures have had, and also of having little focus on competition. This applies both in the United States and in Europe, and that's part of what we point out in our remark, that there are aspects of this that are extremely poorly investigated in the government's proposition. There's something quite different than criticizing that you're actually going in one direction, because we agree on that. But there are some factors here that are extremely difficult to find at the right level. That is why we have asked that you also follow closely. Because if you listen to Stiglitz and this with competition, in the case of ‘too big to fail’, which may not be a particular issue in Norway, simply because we do not have such large financial institutions, he says that after the financial crisis, the measures have made the situation even worse because there has been no focus on competition in the market. With regard to the collection of profits, the rapporteur and the chairperson of the committee should not be surprised that prices rise in banks and financial institutions, when the authorities require them to raise much more capital. It should be the most natural thing in the world that when we oblige the banks to raise much more capital, the prices will also go up, because some people have to own that capital, and it's actually the shareholders. It is then a point to focus on competition to ensure that consumers do not pay too much of it. We miss a discussion about how to actually make things easier with bank start-ups, and how to distinguish maybe small banks that are not system-critical, that won't be able to roll a whole economy, and the big ones. Here are many things that could be discussed. Countercyclical buffers have some aspects that should definitely be discussed. For deadlines and weightings: the only thing we have said there is that we want harmonisation with the Nordic countries, in other words, that we do not put Norwegian financial institutions in a further competitive disadvantage with the loan. We think it makes sense to keep up with that. In retrospect, we have also recorded signals that are not very strong in the proposition, where an activity tax has been imposed on the financial sector dead. We believe that this is very sensible, because it would be an additional charge that consumers and consumers would have had to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1715	A sound financial industry is crucial to avoid the most dramatic impacts of economic downturns. Both banks, their shareholders and authorities gained animal-acquired experience through the banking crisis 20 years ago. Through the rescue packages, the only state that owns the largest banks, and previous shareholders lost large values. We are all certain that such conditions must be avoided when we are still in the midst of an international financial crisis. The financial committee's approach shows that there is broad agreement between government and large-scale banks to strengthen their capital requirements. The degree of discrepancy is linked to the pre-existence of Norway with its capital build-up requirements than is required by the EU in its implementation of the Basel III recommendations. We're in a lucky situation. The financial crisis does not have the Norway frame. We have an operating finance industry that delivers good results. There's a lot of activity and a lot of demand for loans from the banks. The petroleum industry associated with the supplier industry is the engine of Norwegian growth. Furthermore, there is high demand, high price rise and high credit needs in the housing market. At the same time, we are experiencing an increase in the two-way distribution of the economy, where the traditional mainland industry is struggling. The housing market is also of concern. High price increases over the last few years may be followed by falling prices over the years. And then a lot of housing will have a loan debt that's high above the pipe, with the consequences it's going to have for lending customers, and for banks, through the risk of losing money on their loans. The majority of the Finance Committee, the Government Party and the Christian People's Party are clear in their support of the Government's proposal that the introduction of new capital requirements should take place earlier than the deadlines set in the International Code. The Norwegian economy is still doing a good job. This makes it easier for banks to strengthen their soundness. The majority indicates that we are lucky to take the discussion of a stricter regulation before a crisis, and not in the middle. We also notice that it is not just Norway that is early to implement the new capital requirements. In this context, it is important that Sweden is one of the countries that seemed to do just like Norway. The opposition to applying stricter capital requirements before many other countries will be whether we are thereby weakening the competitiveness of the Norwegian banks in the market, and whether we are weakening the ability of the banks to meet the demand for loans. Small and medium-sized enterprises that depend entirely on access to capital from the Norwegian credit market will have difficulties in financing their activity. The central party assumes that the government is attentive to the challenges faced by the banks and their customers in the time phase given to meet new capital requirements. Let me stress that building soundness now will give business and other borrowers a better credit market in a slightly longer perspective. So the central party's assessment is that it's right to use the next few years, with good economic prospects, to build a solidity in the financial industry that we're totally dependent on whether there's going to be any bad times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1734	The Christian People's Party promoted two years ago, well, there was a proposal for a document in this Chamber on measures to counter a new financial crisis. Many of those proposals have now been presented by the government in this proposition we are discussing today, and then it is also natural for us to support what we ourselves agreed to a few to three years ago. So we're happy with the government here. We learned a brutal lesson in Norway about 20 years ago, when several of our leading banks actually broke out. This meant that after the time we tightened up the legislation, so that when the financial crisis came in 2008, we were better rusted than we might otherwise have done. Now it must be said that the 2008 financial crisis on the banking side was not a crisis as such for industry. It was a liquidity crisis – so you didn't get money. But the soundness was so much in place, partly because regulations had been made at an earlier time as a result of what we experienced around 1990. So we're in favour of the vote and we're also in favour of the majority remarks. It is clear that there is always a question of whether to be a horse head in front of some countries, or whether to go all the way, when to introduce these kinds of requirements. What I am absolutely convinced of is that a lot of people would like to see – if they look back a little – that they had previously been involved in making stricter demands, when we see what happened in 2008. We are pleased with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1745	It's a pleasure that a broad majority of the Biggest now joins this proposition. It is – as the case-rapporteur also said – an important milestone that one is doing this now, and both the case-rapporteur and others have been concerned about why this is happening. One – to which the representative Syversen now returned – is our own banking crisis a little over 20 years ago, and of course the financial crisis in 2008. What one has also seen is that both the crisis in Norway and, in particular, the crisis we have seen since 2008 have incurred enormous costs, mainly through major imbalances and unrest in many economies and a very strong growth in unemployment. So the fact that banking crises have huge costs is in itself an independent argument for having solid banks. The second is that the banks have a very central role in society. They take care of our savings, they provide loans and are in many ways – I have used an expression from this pulpit earlier, in 1991 – the bloodstreams of the economy. So it's important that this works in a good way. As you can see, banks are social institutions, and I have a very strong belief that solid banks are socially profitable. At the same time, it is also a competitive advantage for the sound banks. This applies to banks like for individuals: if you're solid, you get the best terms if you ask for a loan. What we are doing now in Norway is part of an international work that we are now engaged in in every country, both through the Basel III rules, the Capital Directive in the EU, and what is happening in each country. There are concrete proposals, and one takes active action to build more solid banks while also looking at the entire regulatory side of banking. It is important to build reserves in good times. In bad times, it is difficult to build reserves. It is then that you should have reserves available. This is why Norway is now in a good position to build solid banks. So it's the way, as others have pointed out, that Norwegian banks are good at. The average capital adequacy in Norwegian banks is directly below the 11 pst. This means that the demands now made in the next two years should be affordable for Norwegian banks. I'll comment on a relationship a little bit special. In these comments, competition conditions – especially in the Nordic banking market – have been highlighted, as we have a large common competition area in the Nordic region. The framework conditions are somewhat different from one country to another. In the case of banks, they have in Sweden, for example: two annual payments to special funds, and in Denmark they have a transaction tax, so it is not initially equal either. But I am concerned about this, and that was also the reason why the Nordic Finance Ministers set up a group to look at opportunities to achieve the most uniform and equal conditions of competition. One measure that then emerged as an option was a so-called host country regulation. This means that banks operating in Norway must comply with Norwegian rules, just as banks operating in Sweden, which are Nordic-based, have Swedish rules. I want to work for it, and tomorrow I will take another trip to Stockholm to talk to my Swedish colleague about just capital requirements and what one is doing on the Swedish side. So I am pleased with the support that Stortinget gives to this proposal today. It is important, and it contributes to not only building more solid banks, but also building additional soundness around the Norwegian economy. It'll be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1769	The Minister of Finance used the term ‘blood years’ – we can agree on that – and I used the term ‘nave’. Blood pressure usually needs to be both controlled and adjusted, at least for slightly older people. I think we're going to have debates on this in the future, even in the period we're now overlooking, in terms of regulation, for the extent to which we're adjusting the arrangement, will depend on how the Norwegian economy evolves. I was actually just going to ask for a confirmation of that, so that I can confirm that the Minister of Finance is going to follow up on this and possibly come back to the Stortinget with adjustments if there are things in the Norwegian economy that suggest that we should adjust it. We see that the bond market is booming, it's being speculated about small and medium-sized enterprises, about the lack of credit and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1779	Without that it's 100 pst. Similarly, the better the shape you're in, the greater the chance that your blood pressure is okay. Making sure that the banks are in good shape is important. It's right, as Gundersen's representative says, that things happen in the market out there that you always have to follow. But if you look at the basic approach, that you have a good core capital coverage at the bottom, it's pretty similar out there. Then we will consider later which banks are so-called systemically important, which may be faced with that requirement. It is contained in the bill that Stortinget is likely to join later today, a law that one can later introduce a so-called countercyclical buffer, which is more like one of and on-button. Here we will consider input from the Bank of Norway before we finally decide what this will look like and how, if any, we will introduce such a requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1788	The countercyclical buffer I think can be quite difficult to handle, but we'll see when it comes. I noticed that the Minister of Finance uses competitive advantage quite often. I agree, at least up to a certain level, where, if you don't tighten up too much, you can risk opening up the Norwegian market to banks in less regulated areas. I believe that the Minister of Finance will follow up quite strongly. But I can also use the lines to make a call since he is going to meet his Swedish colleague tomorrow – it was, so: I perceive that there is a risk weight in the underlying calculations that is absolutely crucial to the competitive relationship within the Nordic region, among other things. So I hope the finance minister will take into account that risk weighting and differences in risk weighting between Sweden and Norway have been one of the most combustible issues in the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1797	The last point of the representative Gundersen is important, because this capital requirement is a sum of a numerator and a denominator – right? It's clear that if one makes certain adjustments there, one can achieve almost both an equity roughly equal to zero and an equity roughly equal to infinity. So it's clear that the whole question of risk weighting for underlying loans is an important part of this. Then it must be that risk may be slightly different from country to country. It is therefore that this track, which is about so-called host country regulation, can be a possible solution. But the main point is that at least one has to have a transparent system and a system that is comparable, so that it is possible to compare different banks across borders when it comes to soundness, for example — that it is a pervasive and transparent system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1809	It's important to have solid banks. They're an important part of the way the economy works to secure business investment, and people get their first home and other. But what we now see in several proposals from the government that are being adopted in Stortinget is that one has very strict rules on tightening up vis-à-vis borrowers in private banks. At the same time, we know that the public banks, such as the Husbank and the State pension fund housing loan department, have an explosive growth. Where one on the one hand tightens up for the sake of the system, one on the other has no regulation limiting the other areas of the system that make people move on loans, instead of having less debt. Does the Minister of Finance think that the system is well-sized when a bank can only move loans outside the scope of the Financial Supervisory Authority, which means that one does not necessarily get the effects that a numerically believe one gets by simply applying to the private banks that one here regulates?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1818	Now it is true that central banks — one can use the example of the House Bank — have a special role to play in filling the housing policy. They shall provide loans to specific areas that are important in terms of financing, such as: care measures in the municipalities, etc. In total, government lending frameworks are also assessed, i.e. into the total economy. In the case of the State pension fund, there is, of course, a tariff-fixed scheme — that is, point one. Second, there are strict requirements to obtain a loan from the State pension fund. There's an upper limit on how much you can borrow, and there's also a requirement on how much you can borrow in relation to the mortgage. So in that way it is already today, one might say, strict equity requirements for lending through the State pension fund, with the legislation they have. But central banks are also part of the total economy, and when one assesses one, for example. will increase the framework of the House Bank, taking account of developments in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1825	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1841	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left 5 minutes each. In addition, 5 minutes is proposed to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1850	Norwegian work life is for everyone, most of them a good place to be. But although the main picture of Norwegian working life is good, we know that in parts of Norwegian working life we have great challenges. Social dumping is probably the biggest challenge we've faced in this process of mass destruction, and we're going to have to deal with it in the future. The government has for eight years had the only dangerous approach to social dumping: we must be in the forefront, see the next steps of the challenges and take action to stop them. Through two action plans, almost 40 individual actions, the agency package and now the recently submitted Action Plan 3 we have managed to limit the scope. Fafo concludes in its evaluation that the government’s eight-year effort has clearly contributed to reducing the level of social dumping. It's worked. But we have to move on. We have to go on to be able to maintain the good standard in Norwegian working life. We need to move on in order to be able to prevent breaches of our labour law. We must continue to fight against the exploitation and underpayment of labour. We decided almost exactly one year ago that those who have often – and unfortunately – been a B team in working life, the temporary workers, should be treated in the same way as permanent employees. Norwegian working life shall be based on permanent, secure employment. It is for the benefit of individual employees, of individual enterprises and of society as a whole. Therefore, we limit temporaryity and lease-in through the law. With the directive on temporary workers and the package of measures in this respect, the principle of non-discrimination came into force. This case shows that it does not comply with decisions in this room – no, we need to have the means to follow up and ensure implementation and enforcement in order to achieve this goal. That is what social dumping action plans are about, that is what the temporary work package is about, and that is what the introduction of collective redress – as we are adopting today – is also about. It is as simple as this: If the company does not comply with Norwegian law and the rental law when the other measures on rental – as we adopted in the framework of the temporary employment directive – do not work, it should be possible to take advantage of legal proceedings in order to establish the legality of the employment relationship. Serious Norwegian enterprises — and of course they are in a majority — following Norwegian law — will never be close to such an action. They have nothing to fear. It is in the interests of all companies that we get extra tools to unlock those who use crime as a competitive advantage. We know, and we hear – all the time and all too often – about cases of illegal hiring, where the temporary workers themselves do not dare to take the case. It is a heavy burden to sue the employer when you are already in a precarious employment situation. As I and the representative Røe Isaksen heard last night when we visited the main trustees of the AF Group down here at Sørenga in the city, it is common in the construction industry that where matters are actually dealt with, the temporary worker often experiences losing his job long before the case comes up at all. The Labour Party has always meant, and believes, that it is a fundamental right to be properly treated and in line with Norwegian law in the workplace. You have to have proper pay and working conditions. As long as the court of appeal is in the process of establishing and not enforcing, I believe that the criticism from the Association of Lawyers and from the right-hand side – which goes by consent – is exaggerated. At least the government and I listen to those who will do this – those who feel this on the body. They think this is a loving measure. The fact that the scheme presupposes a responsible professional movement is quite clear. That's what we have here in the country. The fact that the community can take the burden and the noise where the individual has too much to lose is, in our opinion, a good order. Today, we also provide more tools for the Labour Inspectorate. Supervisory competence in the rental law and infringement fee are two other measures which could detect several breaches of Norwegian law and could act as a preventative measure. It is good for the employee who is being exploited, it is good for all serious companies that follow Norwegian law, and it is good for the entire Norwegian working life model. Today we also adopt a power cap against involuntary part-time. Involuntary part-time work is unemployment, and the Labour Party and the Government therefore believe that it should be combated as unemployment. Thousands, preferably ladies, work in small job breaks. They're looking for extra guards to make it go around. They can't plan their free time, they don't get bank loans, and it has consequences for future retirement. I met Rita from Romsås, who has been working in the same nursing home since she was 16. She works in an approx. 70 pst. position. She has not been on vacation with her children of seven years – seven years – because she is totally dependent on working where there are vacant guards – set up at short notice and be available. Therefore she has not travelled on vacation for seven years in hopes of more work to get it to go around. Finally, we get a piece of legislation that recognises Rita's work and other care workers do for our entire welfare community. It is paradoxical that the proportion of those who work involuntary part-time is the largest in the care sector – the sector with the highest demand for labour. When seven out of ten employees in municipal care work part-time, this is not just a challenge for individual employees but for the quality of services. The government has taken a lot of action in recent years to improve the situation. We could also say that evolution is going in the right direction. The number of hours worked involuntarily has decreased. Nearly 30,000 more women work full time. But we have to move on. With the changes in the laws we adopt today, we realize the right to full time in the law. In particular, a multi-time paragraph and a more deliberate exercise of the right of pre-emption will provide more and more jobs. The measures have been thoroughly investigated, they have been sent to the hearing, and finally we can adopt them. It is therefore a little strange to see what argument the right-hand side now leads to for its resistance, not only against a multi-time paragraph against involuntary part-time, but also against collective redress and infringement fees. The multi-time paragraph is not sufficiently worked out, says the Right and will determine more. The concern that some people will have to put on uncomfortable hours of work is also touching all the time this rests on volunteering, all the time that the working life is flexible, all the time employers, workers, tournaments and plans are not static but dynamic, and all the time the worst that can happen is that a volunteer takes on to work the same – more or less – uncomfortable as one has done in the last year. Carers and others I talk to say that they would much rather work a little uncomfortable with safety and predictability – because they should – than have to pursue the same uncomfortable working time without knowing that they get it and live with uncertainty. When the Right now pushes the Nursing Association in front of them, they do not say that the Nursing Association is primarily pleased that we finally adopt this paragraph. The Right Party and the Advance Party must now go out and tell thousands of part-time nurses and others that they are voting against. There will be no right to more time with the Right and the Advance Party. They can say what they want today, but they don't suggest an alternative. They vote against and owe more attention to the need for further investigation. The fact that the right-hand side also opposes collective redress and infringement fees is also no surprise. The same parties have shown a striking inaction to the problem at all times. This case and these new approaches to a more decent working life that we are adopting here today demonstrate once again clearly that the choice of the harvest is a direction choice for the labour market as well. We can get a government consisting of the red-green, which will go on with offensive measures in the fight against social dumping, or we can get parties that will wait and see and reverse what has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1880	The Progress Party is engaged in Norwegian law and a good work life that includes many. We are concerned that there should be room for each individual to decide and make it possible to provide his/her working capacity, whether it is small, large, part-time or full-time. The government wants to give trade unions greater power by opening up legal rights for trade unions. The party of progress believes this is against important legal principles. Besides, it weakens tripartite cooperation. One should have believed that the government had gone high on the track – before it was at least like that – so that one should have good democratic processes even when it comes to the tripartite system. It's clear there's going to be an imbalance in the system when you go in for exactly this point. I also learn that several parties are behind the IA agreement. It would be strange if the one party were to disappear and the other get more power. At the same time, action against the unprofessional is important. But this proposal goes a little too far in exercising power, and that the basic principle also applies to civil proceedings in which individuals are weakened. The party of progress thinks it's almost an infringement of the individual's right of self-determination. The progress party is positive for involuntary part-time – let it be said, and let it lie. We've shown that by supporting the part-time project, which we've seen of 25 million. kr to every year for three years. We actually see a good deal of positive results from this. It's worth moving on. Nevertheless, we believe that the measure that the government will now initiate against involuntary part-time is a little bit thoughtful. It's almost felt like a fast election campaign form that might give involuntary part-time false hopes. That's exactly what we don't want. The goal is a whole set of options for those who want it. But one can't say today that it's going to be like this because one has worked like this and like over 12 months. So sit one maybe there, and it's not that easy anyway, because it's actually some pitfalls. That's what we want to point out. We want to go a few rounds, because we see that there are some things that you haven't thought through. After all, you have to know how many people there are; there are not many. That's about. 30 pst. working part-time involuntaryly, and that part goes down very much. Various measures have been put forward — I am a part-time project across the country. In addition, I would also like to say that the trainee arrangements in hospitals and municipalities have shown very good results in getting an involuntary part-time job. One actually only talks in a few months from a signal that one will increase the position until one gets the desired one. As I said, there are some pitfalls in the proposal for a government. With respect to reporting, I just want to help you look at this and look at the difficulties you might face. It is, as the representative Trettebergstuen said, often illegal working hours for those who want to have a greater position. They have to watch in the evening and night for a long time. It's not good for the work environment. There may be more weekend work, and it may be that the employer is left with an overstaffing. Take, for example: those who are on leave because of pregnancy, illness or other Ein must then have people to go in and take these guards. Then they come back again – many have been away for up to one year – and so many have come in after and taken guards. Then one suddenly gets more additions that are persuasible. No one's talking about the economy that's going to be at the bottom of this. We may be able to say that we need more basic staff in hospitals and hospitals. We've been talking about that for a long time, but the economy in this has to be in place. Who is going to take this bill? I can take an example from something I know well about from my work: an assistant who works hard every three weekends in 13 pst. position, take many extra guards to make it jump, I am fully aware of that. The assistant takes a lot of guards where the guards may be caregivers, caregivers, or nurses. This is how the year goes – 12 months goes fast – and then they come and say that they have rights and claims, and that they should have a full position, even if it was 13 pst. which was at the bottom. What do you want to do? Should the assistant take the care worker or nurse’s position, or should this come to the top of the whole – extra staffing in other words? You have to say something about it. We are in any case grateful that the assistants take as many guards as they take, but we must continue to work to ensure that the assistants continue to take further training and get into other settings where they can get better pay and more continuity. This shows that there are some things that need to be done and that you might not have thought about. Or has the government thought that we should now add extra funds to get this in place? Let's talk about a little bit more. I see that this can be complicated too many, both for small hospitals and small municipalities. I think the wish is there, but I'm afraid that a lot of people will be disappointed, and I don't want to let anyone else down in the health sector. We have drawers more than once. That's why we want you to do a few more rounds to learn more about the consequences of this. Not least, we want a proper evaluation when it comes to the paragraph that belongs to the right of preference, and that we get a review here before we go ahead with the premise. It's not that the will is not there, but we have to be realistic. The debate has recently been a little confusing. The LO manager raids – almost bullies – part-time workers who make a choice based on their family and life situation. The party of progress fully supports these women's choices. After talking about working more – the mantra of the Minister of Labour – she comes now, late yesterday, with a wish that we have to have more both part-time and full-time. It'll be a little confusing. The progress team has talked about how we need more people who want to work all the time, but at the same time we need to have a flexible working life that includes everyone, regardless of the size of the position. We want more people with disabilities into the workplace. We want flexible turns. We want several seniors to stay longer in work, yes, long after reaching retirement age – 62 years, 67 years or why not 70 years? We want people with disease swings to be part of their own working lives, so that they can spend some time, perhaps in a part-time position, instead of being untrained all the time. I take this up with me the own proposals of the Progress Party and the proposal we have with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1914	The representative Laila Marie Reiertsen then brought up the proposals she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1917	This was, to say the least, a strange criticism from the representative Reiertsen, who will not do anything to prevent social dumping, but who at the same time criticises that the government comes with is not enough. Then I can comfort myself that a third package of measures is being worked on. These are good measures, but there will be even more. The fight against social dumping is a major issue for SV. The right to decent pay is the foremost means we have to distribute power and resources in society. It is a fundamental democratic right to have a working life with good working conditions, strong collective agreements and small pay differences. The trade union movement is the most important ally in this work. Social dumping is a major concern of migrant workers who are exploited. This exploitation is about getting poor pay and poor working conditions, but at the same time it undermines the rights of everyone in Norwegian working life. Today, the Stortinget, hopefully, adopts collective law, which provides trade union movement with a new and powerful means of reducing social dumping and illegal hiring. I am pleased with this, which will change the conditions of power in the labour market in the right direction. One must not have been out in the workplace much to shake the head of the right-hand side, worrying that the government is proposing strong instruments, and which, in my opinion, has an artificial concern for legal certainty by extending access to justice to trade unions. Of course, the reality is that many employees do not have the opportunity to go to court on their own behalf, because it means a long process time, they risk dismissal, and they risk putting the company down to reoccur in other forms. I have been away in so many cases with desperate employees who are being exploited, and who do not get their wages, where just such extended legal remedies would help a lot. In addition, the exploitation that affects individuals also affects everyone in Norwegian working life by weakening their rights. Of course, access to the search case will not be used except where necessary, but I note – and hope that ordinary workers do – that the Right and Advance Party are against the right of appeal, that the Progress Party is against the publication of collective bargaining agreements, and that both the Right and the Advance Party are against the labour market being based on firm, secure employment, and that the amount of rental should be limited. SV was against the agency directive because we were afraid that it would facilitate increased use of temporary workers. The counter-argument was that the directive regulates the conditions of the temporary workers, inter alia: requiring permanent establishment in the agencies. Unfortunately, we already see that this is not good enough, because the so-called permanent employment is often limited in terms of job percentage or in terms of time compared to a special temporary job. Today, we are taking a new step towards the right to full time. So now employees get the right to contract what they actually work, instead of a low part-time job with eternal me after extra guards to earn enough and to know when to go to work. It is of great importance to many. Still, many, especially in the health and trade in goods, have to assume that a part-time job is what is achievable. Of course, for those who want to work full-time, there is less certainty that the bills can be paid and less predictability of when to work. Today there is an advertisement out there for a 61 pst. position as an auxiliary caretaker of the Gold Steel Tune in the Füllingsdalen. Whoever gets the job may want to fill in with extra guards to get a full income. If the assistant nurse has worked 75 pst. on average, when the additional guards are counted, instead of the 61 pst agreed, she shall now be able to actually claim a contract on the 75 pst. She's been working. That is a great step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1936	With regard to the proposal for entitlement to the employment rate actually employed, the opposition has adhered to that principle, but has made it clear, as the nurses' union has done, that the weakness of the government's proposal is that you can be forced into uncomfortable working hours for a longer time. The government has still not been able to answer how to get into a normal position, if any, like everyone else with the same percentage of jobs. But then to what the Socialist Left Party representative refers to as ‘an artificial concern for legal certainty’ – an artificial concern for the legal security shared by the Law Association, an artificial concern for the legal security shared by the Hjort law firm, the firm that the Ministry asked to investigate and look at the proposal for so-called collective redress, an artificial concern for the legal security shared by the Ministry of Justice. Why has this artificial concern for legal certainty come about? Well, because the core point of collective redress is that a trade union in one enterprise should be able to sue on behalf of an employee in another enterprise, which is not itself professionally organised – at least he does not have to be – and who does not want to become a party to the case himself. So you can say that Norwegian trade unions will use that proposal wisely and with caution. I am absolutely sure that they have all the intentions to do so, but that does not make the debate ‘an artificial concern about legal certainty’. I should like to hear the representative of the Socialist Left Party and the representatives of the other government parties come up and explain and perhaps worry a little about this artificial concern about legal security, because on the part of the government this is hardly mentioned in a single word. It seems even more funny when the government explicitly justifies the proposal – a radical proposal that central legal environments, including the Ministry of Justice, say can rock through central civil law principles – that today's system does not work. It seems that the government parties have already forgotten the uproar they themselves had about the agency directive. The Socialist Left Party was, as we hear here, opposed. They obviously did not believe that there was a need for legislation and a law that ensured that you got equal payment whether you were a permanent employee or hired a temporary worker. Them about it! In this respect, however, the government also promoted a package of measures – and this is not five years ago, it is not two years ago, but it is three months ago – and all parts of the package of measures have not yet been implemented. How the government can then get to Stortinget without any documentation and say that today's legal situation is not satisfactory, or that today's system is not working, is a mystery to me. If the government does not intend to provide evidence today, it seems very strange that the urgency of introducing a new code – a code such as the Law Association, the Ministry of Justice and the law firm that the department itself asked to look at the proposal, refers to as a possible violation of central civil law principles. On the other hand, the government here is taking another step towards disrupting — at worst — what has been one of the best in the Norwegian model, namely the willingness to find good local solutions in cooperation between the parties. Instead, the government introduces a principle that, in the worst case, can lead to what I would call the ‘Americanisation’ of Norwegian working life, where instead of sitting down and agreeing – yes, if it means agreeing to follow Norwegian law, as you should of course – each other before the courts and making it legal. I may not think it is surprising that the red-green government is promoting such a proposal now, but I think it is surprising that one is promoting such a proposal without at all having considered the principal aspects of the matter. On the other hand, you know what happens when you ask the government to evaluate the principal aspects of different things. For example, in the context of the fees that can be imposed by the Labour Inspectorate, the government continues – after ten years – not to be able to follow up NOU 2003:15, such as, among others. problemated the relationship between these fees and the Basic Law § 96.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1953	The circumstances in the world of work are crucial for us to be able to facilitate good lives for people, simply because we spend so much of our day in the world of work, and because conditions in the world of work also affect economic and social, not least the time outside the world of work. The Working Environment Act is an incredibly important law. It's a law that's been in conflict since it came. There have been conflicts on different points. There has been a very conflict between those who want to have a strong work environment law that ensures clean conditions – not only for employees, but also for companies – and those who see that one here wants to have a simpler relationship and greater flexibility, which in many cases leads to greater uncertainty about the rules of the game, both for employees and for the owners of the company. However, the situation today is that a strong law could not be a good barrier to good conditions in the labour market if the general economic policy facilitates an increasing pressure against the intention of the law. And that's what's happening today: as a consequence of the EEA Agreement and the free movement of labour, we get an imbalance in the labour market, especially in those parts where professional organisation is weakest, or where one has the least natural border protection in terms of protection with languages and other such conditions. The Norwegian model of decent conditions is therefore under a very, very pressure, and this is a pressure that many employers also feel very strongly, employers who want to have decent relationships for their employees. This is a relationship that is very small in front. The changes in the Labour Environment Act, the new measures there, are, of course, an attempt to limit the negative consequences of a free flow of labour. It is very difficult to ensure this when we know that working conditions in the EEA area are becoming increasingly challenging by the fact that many countries have unemployment rates so high that it is greater than the one that created the crisis in the 1930s, and we know that a number of countries have suffered severe reductions in their wages. Therefore, it is incredibly demanding to try to have a law and practice in Norway that ensures our important principles. The General Public Service Act ensures that non-resident workers are paid and working conditions equivalent to those of Norwegian workers, and it is a priority task for the government to ensure this, which is central to the work of decent working life. The majority, i.e. the government parties, clearly say that the strong growth in manpower companies and in the number of persons employed by such enterprises is undesirable. It's a very clear program statement, and it's very strong that it's not, among other things. The Christian People's Party could be involved in such a formulation, because this is at the heart of ensuring decent working conditions – it's a flag paragraph, a flag stance, which government parties use. So to the point of strengthening enforcement of labour-environment law offences and extending access to justice for trade unions: this is precisely to prevent and prevent bad practices in companies at rental. The clarification and appropriate extension of the access of trade unions to the right-to-law proceedings on rentals is central to establishing the illegal nature of the rentals. Government parties support the right of both local and general trade unions to have such a right if they have members of an establishment which has hired workers from recruitment agencies. We are also in favour of an infringement fee in order to have an instrument that can be used in cases where there are not serious enough cases for police reports to be made within the provisions of the Working Environment Act. Finally, the involuntary part-time relationship: it is quite obvious that this will mean that in the care sector there will be more supervisors who will have to take weekends and what is there, and in this work it is very important that you have both rights and duties. It is one of the key features of the Norwegian model in relation to our welfare society, and it is central to further developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1974	The Christian People's Party does not reject the proposal for a right to a permanent position equivalent to real working time, but we ask, together with other parties, that the government come back with a somewhat better solution to this proposal – which is good. It is also true that not all employee organisations agree with the solution that the government has found or that they propose today. It is the case that the proposal on the right to extended employment does not adequately take account of workers, as the Christian People's Party sees it, because the right to extended employment can lead to very uncomfortable working hours. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it should be considered whether it should take a little longer before workers are given the right to an expanded position, precisely to ensure that one not only gets the right to an equivalent inconvenient working time that one has previously had, but that one can also enter the ordinary course in the same way as others. If necessary, a time limit could be given to the employer, after the court had been delivered, because when the employee would enter the regular tour. This has not been taken into account in the proposal. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposal on the right of appeal goes very far. We also believe that this is questionable for several fundamental reasons. Such an extended right of appeal could have serious consequences for the hired workers, without having to decide for himself whether or not to bring an action. Thus, he is not given the opportunity to present his own case, which several have pointed out may be contrary to the objection principle. Freedom of organisation confers the right to participate in an organisation, and it should also grant the right not to be a member, and should not be directly involved in the organisation's affairs. In addition, the proposal is put forward before the effectiveness of the new rules on measures to combat illegal rental has been evaluated. The Christian People's Party is uncertain whether there is really a need for further regulation before evaluating what has already been done. I would particularly like to refer to some objections that have been raised, including: by the Association of Advocates, where they have also said that in their opinion this is contrary to fundamental principles of civil law. They also consider that the requirements for fair trial resulting from the nature of the EMK. 6 and Section 1-1 of the Arbitration Act – including this with the right to be heard and to provide evidence and evidence in its own case – are not well-managed. Finally, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party supports the extended supervisory competence of the Labour Inspectorate, the Aviation Authority and the Petroleum Authority, as the government has promoted it in this matter. The Christian People's Party also supports the introduction of an infringement fee, including at the level proposed by the government here, and we believe that the possible fine should be adapted to the financial capacity of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e1989	The government has combined three action plans to ensure the serious nature of work and to combat social dumping. It has produced good results, but we still see that these are challenges. We must constantly consider new measures, and if necessary, to ensure a decent working life for all. In the Work Life Communication, we discuss whether the enforcement methods against serious breaches of occupational health and safety legislation are good enough. Infringements of the law shall have consequences and offences shall not be profitable for unprofitable businesses. The proposals under consideration today are precisely about the enforcement of the legislation. The Government proposes to impose an infringement fee. We do that because reaction drugs are needed. Infringement fee is an effective instrument and it is unclear to me why an infringement fee should be paid in respect of the Data Protection Authority, the Air Traffic Monitoring Authority and the Competition Surveillance Authority, but not in respect of the Labour Inspectorate. We believe that legal certainty with this is well ensured by the fact that there is legal remedies in the Administrative Act. In addition, the courts shall have jurisdiction over all aspects of the case. The Labour Inspectorate has reviewed the consultation we have sent out on collective redress. They claim that there is a vast amount of rental that is contrary to the law. That is why we want to introduce collective redress. Many people who are hired are in a vulnerable position, and the costs of going to court can be great. Therefore they do not dare to address the matter. Of course, the best thing is if employees and employers agree on something as simple as following the law, but that is what some people do not do, and that is what the Labour Inspectorate points out to us. That is why we want to have an opportunity to pursue that kind of breach in order to ensure the enforcement of existing legislation. In the Employment Communication, the government also warns of measures to reduce the use of involuntary part-time and that we want to get more emphasis on full-time. And we're going to follow that up. Some part-time employees work evenly over much more than they have laid down in their employment contract. They actually have a much bigger job break. That is why this proposal is aimed at strengthening the rights of part-time employees. I have some wonder that the representative of the Right is trying to push the nurses' union in front of him as to why they should be rejected. The nurses' union wants to go even further. They have never argued against this proposal, because it will in reality strengthen the rights of those in part-time. Nor is it the case, as the representative of the Progress Party says, that you can get permanent employment after having been in a maternity viariat, because if there are no other reasons why you cannot be employed, this will be emphasised by the employer. So if you go in after a maternity leave, you don't have the right to the job fraction you actually saw, because then you've been in a vicarium. But there's a need to go beyond what we did in 2006. We want to make the right of preference more widely known and applied, and therefore, as far as possible, we also require the employer to discuss this with the employees. Overall, the government believes that the proposals contained in the proposal are good measures against social dumping and involuntary part-time. These are good measures for serious work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2010	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2014	Governments have recently assumed that one will have more part-time options, to get more older and not working. The Council of State does not mention those who already have a part-time position, all the women who are the benefactors of the government party, LO and their leader, strongly attack that a near-abuse of their mother's role in order not to work anymore. What do the Councils of State think about this play, and will the Council of State ensure voluntary part-time workers peace for political pressure to work more in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2021	When you have young children today, you have the right to a part-time job. It is stated in the Working Environment Act, and in reality it is practised for those who have children under the age of 10. We have also extended the right to part-time work for older workers – as we did in 2006 – and for sick workers. This means that there is a need for many part-time jobs in the future, especially because we want to mobilise several of them unable to work. But I agree with all the proposals that are about creating a full-time culture, which are about concrete proposals that make it possible to get job breaks up – so that you can get better rights if you get sick, and so that you get a disability that is consistent with what you have actually worked. That is why the proposal we have now submitted is a very good one that will ensure more rights to full-time jobs if they have actually worked more than what is in the contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2028	First of all, I wonder what the Council of State thinks about the Ministry of Justice's assessment of the proposal on collective redress. Secondly, the agency directive action package has been working for three months. Everything has not yet been fully implemented. Nevertheless, the government believes that this package of measures is not working. What reviews and reports is it based on?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2033	What is going on throughout some of the proposals we are promoting in the fight against social dumping, including collective redress, are the overviews we get from the Labour Inspectorate. They carry out several unannounced inspections to combat social dumping. That is why we have developed, inter alia: the proposal for better coordination of supervision and the proposal for its implications for breaking the law through an infringement fee, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate. The proposals that have worked well and that have been evaluated by professionals, see that we have had an effect. But at the same time, we see that some businesses are trying to avoid the legislation. Therefore, there is a constant need for new measures in the fight against social dumping to ensure what is the norm in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2038	The proposition shows that the Ministry has taken out some ideas they think are good from the so-called Sanctions Committee, which delivered its position ten years ago. It is NOU 2003:15, «From bot to recovery», I aim to. For ten years, this sample’s attitude has been left untreated in the government’s drawers without having been interested in discussing with the legislative assembly the possibility of using administrative penalties to the extent that one has and that is constantly being extended. One has not promoted any principle for the Storting if we really want a society where it's the same body that determines the breach of rules, that measures the reaction, and where one has no opportunity to go against the fact. My question to the Council of State is this: When the government now imposes an administrative penalty on us, isn't it also time that we have an administrative penalty process?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2043	As the representative is present, the Ministry of Justice and Defence is working to follow up the NOU ‘From bot to improvement’. There is one point that the use of an infringement fee is in line with the intentions of the sample to relieve the police and prosecution authorities. There are several persons who have an infringement fee, including: The Data Protection Authority, the Competition Authority and the Air Safety and Health Authority, and I believe it is important that the Labour Inspectorate also have this in order to ensure that the laws and regulations in Norwegian working life are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2048	I believe the Council of State is right that no employee organisation would refuse to get the right to an expanded position. The solution, which has been chosen to continue with the job size you have had, is also not a problem if you go to a regular job during the day. It's mainly those who work around the clock, this will be a challenge for. My question is, has there been good contact with all the different main organisations so that this is a strange solution? Then I am not thinking about the right to a permanent position, but that if you have worked for 12 months and get this right, you should be in an uncomfortable position. Has there been any other proposal for a solution to this on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2055	All the major associations on the labour side support the proposal. It's true that the nurses' union wants to go further. The nurses’ association does not support any more investigation or say no – as the Right tries to produce it – but they want one to be able to also participate in the usual work plan. What is difficult about it is that it is these guards that they have, which is the real need of the employer. Therefore, it would be difficult to say that one should be entitled to e.g. working only during the day or in a normal schedule of work. The nurses' union wants to go further. We believe that this has been well taken care of through the right of preference. But it's about creating a full-time culture in a lot of Norwegian jobs, so it's more about sharing in the inconvenient guards. It will mean a more fair working day for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2060	A unanimous committee says in the committee note that it wants to legislate that part-time employees are entitled to a job percentage corresponding to their actual working hours. So the Council of State from the pulpit says that if you are in a long-term sick leave or are in for a maternity leave, you should not be entitled to a permanent post or an extended post. Then my question is: what then in the case that is actually really too many in the care and care sector, where one is inside 50 pst. Vicariat for a long-term sick person or on maternity leave and jobs in activity area B in 25 pst. Vicariat and area of activity C in 25 pst. Vicariat? What will be the right of that person? Will it still be such that he is not entitled to more than 50 pst. position? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2065	It is impossible to deal with individual cases in the Storting Chair. But this arrangement has been implemented in Trondheim, because the Labour Party has agreed to it through an agreement with the Trade Union. This vacancy is then entitled after 18 months. We have good experience with this, and we have gained more full-time positions through this. Now we're doing what the red-greens have done in Trondheim, as a national order. We believe that this will have a good effect on developing more full-time jobs, as more people in this sector want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2070	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2074	At the same time as the Labour Inspectorate is now entrusted with overseeing and enforcing the provisions on the hiring-in and hire-out of labour, it is also given a fee authority. This is how additional pieces fall into place in the fight against social dumping. When government parties over time have strengthened and given the Labour Inspectorate new and extended tasks, it is of course because we see that increased use of hired labour is a special challenge in Norwegian working life. We have discovered serious underpayments and serious breaches of the Working Environment Act in this respect. That is why we have also equipped the Labour Inspectorate with reaction options – such as coercive payments, impositions and stoppages of work. In addition to serious breaches of the Working Environment Act, it is necessary to report and investigate by the police in the usual way. But the police's investigation capacity is, as you know, limited, and it is hardly any exaggeration to say that the police have, to varying degrees, prioritised occupational crime. Reports are usually attributed with the natural consequence that breaches of the work environment law are not reported either. Many, including workers’ organisations have therefore called for the Labour Inspectorate to be given the opportunity to respond directly to activities that violate the working environment rules – not as a substitute for stricter criminal responses, but as an effective and rapid response there and there. I assume that the administrative fee in the order of magnitude that this is talking about, up to 1.3 million. kr, will have a certain deterrent effect, which is also the intention. In other words, serious establishments complying with the provisions in force have nothing to fear. I am surprised that the right-wing parties oppose, on a principle basis, that the Labour Inspectorate should be given a fee authority. Even more surprising is the fact that they hardly see the charging authority relieving and streamlining police work, so that police, prosecution authorities and courts can give the law that is being reported to the police, the attention such offences deserve. No later than today's newscasts, we heard that one of Højre's biggest representatives complained that the police have too many tasks. But it's in a different context. The right-hand batches attempt to imagine Norwegian workers that a change of government after the 9 September elections will not change the Norwegian working life. Right, they're going to make some minor changes to the Working Environment Act, but not so that most people will notice it, they say. A little more will just enough get temporary work contracts. The working time arrangements will become a little more flexible. The positional protection system weakens, but only slightly. Listen to what we're saying, don't look at what we're doing, the right-wing parties say to the employees' organisations when they keep accounts with their doers and loads of labour policy. Have they not voted in favour of most measures against social dumping? Today, we can see that many important measures in the fight against social dumping are being reversed if we get a bourgeois majority after the autumn elections. The Public Procurement Act shall be repealed. Instead, we'll get the minimum wage. Solidarity must be removed. The right of access shall be removed. Collective actions will be removed. The infringement fee shall be removed before it is introduced. When the most effective measures in the fight for decent working life are completed, the right parties are, in effect, honoring the unprofessional employers, those who do not think it is so careful to break the Labour Environment Act or offer lice pay to their foreign workers. In sum, this gives a completely different working life. Even more surprising is the fact that they hardly see the charging authority relieving and streamlining police work, so that police, prosecution authorities and courts can give the law that is being reported to the police, the attention such offences deserve. No later than today's newscasts, we heard that one of Højre's biggest representatives complained that the police have too many tasks. But it's in a different context. The right-hand batches attempt to imagine Norwegian workers that a change of government after the 9 September elections will not change the Norwegian working life. Right, they're going to make some minor changes to the Working Environment Act, but not so that most people will notice it, they say. A little more will just enough get temporary work contracts. The working time arrangements will become a little more flexible. The positional protection system weakens, but only slightly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2097	I have two impressions of this debate. One is that those who have spoken for the government parties, including the government council, probably have a somewhat distant relationship with the practical reality of a normal Norwegian job, where you work well together to produce a surplus of production, which means that you have a salary and can offer permanent employment even next year, can pay your creditors and can actually provide community tax revenue. I think this perspective has been completely lost. The Norwegian industry and the labour market are seen as a distribution of goods, where politicians only decide from above, on the assumption that this benefit and the benefit are eliminated, without anyone paying for it, among other things. through a comprehensive red tape. The second thing I think has shaped the debate is the rather simple and undiscovered attitude you have when there are objections to rules that obviously weaken the legal certainty of those who may be in the spotlight for a criminal reaction. In the reply with the Council of State, I demanded that there be a common procedural rule in terms of administrative penalties. I'm not against administrative punishment, I'm not saying everything is going to be done with the police and the court. It is a great advantage many times that you can print a fee rather than a fine. But maybe we should have some common rules that don't get too much legal inequality between the branches of industry, and that single companies or individuals are always guaranteed a minimum of process security. The council replied that it is many times more advantageous to charge fees rather than fines, which I fully agree with, but that was not my question to the Council of State. Anette Trettebergstuen said, with the address of the opposition, that you are skeptical of the court of law – because that is the right side. But in reality, this scepticism in the government itself, at least in the Ministry of Justice, has fundamental objections to the proposal of the Court of Appeal. It violates the simple principle that it is up to the individual, to each of us, whether we want to assert our own interests in court or in what form we pursue our interests. The proposal is contrary to fundamental principles of civil procedure, such as the principle of contradiction, the right to negotiate and the right to dispose of one's own case. It is also a fundamental prerequisite for having a legal interest and a judicial interest. There are problems with the legal force, too, because here it might be about a trial initiated by someone outside the company, and who on your behalf makes a decision that you don't want. This is to disincentive employees. When the representative of the Socialist Left Party, who here really lives up to the first part of his name, says that this is where you move power from employers to employees, that is quite right. Power is shifted out of the enterprise – from deciding locally, from both the employer and the employee, to a distant trade union, which stands out from practical cooperation. I think you should listen to what the Ministry of Justice has said in the hearing opinions. In this context, the Ministry of Justice is not a random body of opinion – it is the country’s foremost legal authority that is there and that actually sees and manages the whole legal system. So you should listen to the expertise you have. And then it's not the right forces that argue, it's the logical follow-up of fundamental principles of law. We've taken a clear distance from the kind of legislation that doesn't bring the world of work forward, but that, on the contrary, can lead to more conflict, and the ones you say you should help, maybe get worse. I will also refer to the comments that are in the matter and that our main speaker has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2114	Now it was obviously good that a decent and real worker came to this pulpit. I have at least 34 years behind me in different work contexts, in both farm operations, as an assistant and manager. So I get to be the representative of those who have knowledge of the working life of the pulpit, we have to believe the previous speaker. To get to the point, we have a good and serious work life in Norway. In the large picture, business is healthy and responsible, and value creation is high, with low unemployment, high employment – efficient and productive. Do we need more tools? No, says the Right. No, says the Progress Party. It's not that weird, because they want a different society. We say yes because we want to develop what we have, and we want to do it better. We don't want to reverse. Part of the labour force is threatened by unprofessionalism and social dumping. Untransparent organisational models and tax-based crime threaten the seriousness of the problem. In the most unprofessional part of working life, we see the contour of workers living as slaves — trafficking in human beings and illegal activities. I'm glad we have a government that has the ability to take the pulse at our own time, who dares to use tough instruments, and who builds up and not down tripartite cooperation. The Right Party and the Advance Party will have a different society. Therefore, they do not want these instruments. I get a little association with an old song, which I think is called something like: your mouth says yes, yes, but your heart says no. This is how I experience the rhetoric of the Right Party and the Advance Party in this matter. The progress party even says that they have the will, but then I wonder what it is they don't have, because they won't do anything in relation to part-time. Right-hand talk about cooperation. Cooperation is not very new. Cooperation without instruments is definitely not new – on the contrary, it is very old. It was a time I don't want to go back to. I want a value-creating and redistributive state, a robust tripartite cooperation, where welfare and school are available to everyone – not tax cuts and commercialisation of the most important welfare goods, as the right-hand side will have. Today, these are the most important choices we have faced in many, many years. Today, for the third time, we are dealing with new provisions of the Working Environment Act that address some of these challenges. The right and the right shall again vote against the provisions which are most effective. For many women, the proposal to amend the Working Environment Act in the case of involuntary part-time work is the most important – women who do not have predictable income, who have to take extra shifts and be low-paid, is a kind of modern rental that calls the employer if you do not hear anything: Is there any job for me today? Is there going to be something available tomorrow? The vast majority of women don't want it like that – and neither does the Workers' Party. I don't think the school students want it like that, neither do the nursing ones – in the home service, in the hospital or in the hospital. Both the Right and the Advance Party will vote against the 12-month calculation period in respect of entitlement to the actual size. The Progress Party has even made it clear that they are against the law of the right to full-time. I then assume that this concerns the whole field of work, and it is reflected in the proposals that pay and employment should be part of the formation of wages and be an instrument in a free and uncontrolled labour market. As I see it, and as I hear the debate, the rhetoric of the Right Party and the Progressive Party brings in an old-fashioned and reverse policy. We also see it in equality policy. They don't want tools to lead society forward, they're stuck on the tools that were modern a hundred years ago. They don't want a father's allowance, they don't want a quota – the world is going to suck off farms the way it does, and the policy is going to be a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2135	The possibility of collective access to justice is about the very floor plan of the Norwegian labour force, the ability to regulate both temporary and illegal employment – it is very closely linked. It is that where illegal rent is widely used in the workplace, there is also a lot of other things that we want to avoid. What does that mean for the individual who is illegally hired? This means that no access to the housing market, security of income or participation in the development of competence of an enterprise is, of course, required. But it's not just the individual who's illegally let in. This will apply to vulnerable industries and the whole of the labour market if this phenomenon of illegal renting becomes rife. If you go to Denmark, you can see what this can mean for your working life. Parts of the construction industry that are increasingly characterized by manual work rather than automation — it means more heavy and also dangerous work, because it has paid off using cheap, hired and illegal labour. The balance of power between the person illegally hired and the employer is incredibly distorted. It will often be the case that the person who is illegally hired has very little connection with the working life — perhaps it is foreign workers. It is not easy to stand up for your own rights when you feel alone. Some have pointed to the freedom of organization. But what about the fear culture, which is pervasive in parts of the world of work, where you don't dare to organize and stand together with others in a trade union to fight your rights? The individual often doesn't have a choice, because the consequences can be so big. This bias we've seen in the world of work for a long time. That's why this is a very welcome way of complying with the rules that we already have today. Too few people have to take their case further. This is precisely why the trade union can help to ease the pressure on the individual. Determining whether there is an illegal lease-in may contribute to the creation of a basis for claims for compensation or a claim for permanent employment resulting from negotiations or legal proceedings. I am a little surprised by the concern of the right-hand representatives of the legal security of those who are illegally hired. Is it not good legal certainty to ensure that those who are illegally hired remain subject to criminal proceedings? We believe that collective access to justice will help to strengthen the unprofessional businesses, because there must be limits to the competitive advantage of being unprofessional. In Norwegian working life — and especially in vulnerable industries — there is reason to be concerned about the future of entire industries. What about the development of competence built over time? What about health, the environment and the safety of workers? It is often not a priority task where there is a lot of illegal rental. You ask, where is this documented? But every time we come up with powerful tools, we get the same excuses from the right side, as we can also read in the comments: it means bureaucracy, the need is not documented, and it's a dramatic intervention in the workplace. We have heard this when it came to the ILO 94, we have heard this in the context of the right of access to trust, joint responsibility and now also in the context of collective access to justice. But instead of spending a lot of time defining excuses for not taking initiatives to ensure decent working life, the right side should have come up with its own actions and initiatives to ensure, as it is in Norwegian working life, that power, money and influence are evenly distributed. There are no serious companies that have reason to worry about what we are doing today; it will be a strength for the serious, organized working life. The Progress Party has even written in its note that the government acts as a recruitment agency for LO. It's completely wrong. But the government has an active policy for even more people to organise, less trade union quotas, tools for trust-elected and trade unions – we do. We should want the engagement to be equally strong on the other side. We want both employees and employers to be well organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2163	The Workers' Party's fraction has actually celebrated a little since this morning – we've had our broadcasts on newscasts, and we've been eating cake with the Trade Union and the LO management. There are many with us who think that the right to have their post as part of the term is important. It's important for today's women and for women in the time that comes, because it's a truth that this applies to most women. It is a long-standing struggle for equality in employment and the fight against part-time unemployment that is being given stronger instruments today. Part-time always has a lot of different facets. It is a very important good, while it is a major obstacle to those who are part-time unemployed. Part-time is a part of working life and must be a natural part of working life in the future as well. We have different life situations, different needs and different choices. We are not going to fight that, we are going to ensure that with the law. But we're going to fight the amount of part-time unemployment, small job breaks, that don't give you income to live off, that doesn't give you safe income that allows you to have a mortgage. We must combat this with stronger instruments. I record that the Progress Party indicates that the right to an enlarged position is respected in today's law. We believe that this observance is not strong enough, we need to do more. That's why we fold up the sleeves and continue this job. I also notice that there are allegations that the changes proposed here could prevent those with reduced working skills from working part-time. The legislation proposed today does not prevent this. Let it be clear to all parties. There are also allegations that we force employers to employ in all the positions where there is no financial room for it. No, it is explicitly stated in the text: it must be over time. You can't demand it when you're inside a defined vicariate. It is necessary to take the job that the employer needs, because we cannot force employers to hire people in jobs they do not have financial room for – it will weaken the operation of the job in both the public and the private sectors. That's what's demanding about it. But maybe it's just the discussions that take place annually, that make sure to raise awareness and change in our attitudes about how we organize everyday life and working day. Annual discussions mean that you have to sit down, so that you get stability, and the skills remain in the company. This is about securing today's workers, but perhaps it's not least about ensuring that we can recruit tomorrow's workers throughout the jobs that give them room to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2182	The representative, Røe Isaksen, made a point that I used the term ‘artificial concern’. It was with thought that I used the term ‘artificial concern about legal security’, although it had to be shared by both the law firm Hjort, the Bar Association and even the Ministry of Justice and Defence, because the concern is not shared by the country’s leading experts on labour law, with Dr. Juris Henning Jakhelln at the head. Even less is the concern shared by those who wear their shoes – and that is what SV wants to represent – those who are out in the workplace and who are occupied by their own comrades, and also their own working conditions. Of course, civil law is the principle that the offender should be able to complain, as Michael Tetzschner said: Individuals should be able to decide for themselves whether to pursue a matter relating to him. But the reality today is that he cannot complain, because they usually want to be out of work, or often out of the country. The conditions of jurisdiction are such that access to justice is theoretical. This means that preserving the legal status of today is to preserve a situation of ineffectiveness for the subject of social dumping. It is this state of Tetzschner and Røe Isaksen will preserve. I talked about shifting power, and Tetzschner took that point up and asked who to move power to. You might as well ask: what does power move to - to commit crimes unprovoked, or to be able to stop crime? That is what the court of appeal is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2191	Sometimes you hear what's being said, but you don't hear it anyway – as the representative Henriksen says the Progress Party is willing to do, but it won't do anything about it. I didn't say that. I say that we are positive that those who work involuntary part-time will be allowed to work more, but we don't want to give the false hopes by not going through something thoroughly enough before we do it – so simple, but a little respect for our faith in it. Others believe in taking a decision very quickly, which may not be the best. That respect I want to get, and I don't intend to stand here and scare, as some other representatives do. We've also been in favour of some measures against social dumping, 19 out of 24, but we also have other solutions that have not been supported. We also have to respect that – as is the policy – without it being sabotaged for what it is not worth, to say it like that. Then I have to answer a little bit as one doesn't quite understand, I think. I've also been in work, just for saying that, and I'm very happy about that. In fact, when it comes to vicariate, sick leave or leave/paternity leave, it's actually the way out that you don't always get a name on the block – that this person should go for it and that person. You don't get search engines, and then what do you do? Well, a liver from week to week to get people into those guards. Then there's a completely different situation, and that's who I'm after: they have to check and figure this out, so that we do it the right way, and that we don't get many more at work when the person who's on leave is back. And then it's the economy again -- that's a few things I've said about, but I'm actually a little concerned about it. Employers have an economy for them to have a job. So I'm going to say, well, some people say that an obligation is to take the guards that employers offer. Yes, it will be largely weekend, night and evening. Social work environment dumping is the closest thing to it then, if you're going to go on a piece of yourself and take the guards that are left outside the day shifts. We've seen that, we've been in the world of work. So to the Trettebergstuen as one named Rita, who went in 70 pst. position, and did not get a vacation. Yes, then employers have neglected. It's about having a 70 pst. a job is also covered by the holiday law, one is covered by a main collective agreement, and one is covered by a work environment law. One should be on the job leave plan in line with everyone else either has a 13 pst. or 100 pst. position. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2202	It's a debate that's worth following, and it's very safe into a historical dimension that's shaped this part of Norwegian society throughout the history of modern Norway. When I hear the discussion, and hear the opposition representatives say that the needs are not documented, I have to say that I have a very strong reaction in myself. What is it that needs to be documented more than all the problems we've had for generations – that women's rightful place in the workplace should be in place? What have we been talking about for generations, when we talk about legal certainty in Norwegian working life? And it has always been that the right-hand side representatives have stood on this pulpit and all the other interlocutors and said, "It is not documented, and what we – that is, the government parties in this context – say is not the right solution. Why am I saying this? Yes, because I myself am very strongly involved in this discussion. I am often in many discussions, including: with the representative of Røe Isaksen. He always says, "No, there's no difference." There is no difference between the right-hand side and the government parties in labour policy. It is with respect to report – I almost kept on saying shame to report – no more obvious demonstration of these differences than what we see in this room. If it is the case that the representatives of Røe Isaksen and Tetzschner are party members of the trade union movement, why do they believe that the trade union movement's own wishes for its position in society should not be implemented? The representative of Tetzschner argues in this debate that this challenges fundamental principles of law. I have seen the hearing opinions, and the representative, Mr Tetzschner, who is a lawyer, knows that the government has met the main objections, among others. from the Ministry of Justice and Defence and others. He knows that well, but he doesn't say it. Nevertheless, it is the absolute responsibility of this legislative assembly to ensure that the legal situation meets the challenges of working life, and it is about caring for the weakest. If we do not do so, it will affect legal certainty and the legal order of the world of work, because the market will take over, and it will not meet employees' interests in the future. It will not take care of the genuine, good thing about Norwegian working life, which has made it a good and stable working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2216	It's been about 35 years since I started working as a carpenter. At the time, the construction industry was essentially a clean, serious industry. Recruitment was done by employing apprentices and providing them with training. We had craft companies that worked intensively to keep the seriousness of the market up and make sure that we had neat relationships with both customers and society as a whole. What we see now, and which worries me very much, is an industry in which serious companies experience daily losing jobs in competition with unscrupulous operators, who happily use illegal hired labour, like poor pay and working conditions. These are actors who do not take responsibility for development at all, either in the industry or in society as such. They're only there to make money, foam the cream. If they could sell hermetics and get the same profit, they would have. Now they sell labour to get a good profit – and do it. We see an industry where the state of HMS – health, environment and safety – is under severe pressure from illegal contracted labour, from unprofessional enterprises that do not take responsibility for anything. In this context, collective redress is a continuation of the line that our government has taken since accession in 2005. We have taken on board developments in the world of work – a development that was totally wild. We can subtract the line from the working environment law adopted by the civil society majority in June 2005, as it is more or less stated that employment is a cardamom city, where everyone wants to be well with each other, and where the individual employee can enter into any agreement with the employer. But the trade union movement would have the lowest possible power. We move power to the trade movement – why? This is because the trade union movement is the bastion of decent conditions in the workplace. In the construction industry today, we see that it is the Joint Union and the trade union movement that is the bastion of the champions who fight with their backs against the wall to keep an industry as serious as possible and that wins, thanks to a government that sees the value of the work that trustees do on behalf of their workmates, a service they do both industry and society – and which in particular the small, serious businesses are very happy to be done. Collective redress is an important step forward towards a decent working life, including in the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2227	During the exchange of replies, I received a question from the Right that I was not given the opportunity to answer, because there were many questions. It was about what I thought about the Ministry of Justice hearing opinions when it came to collective redress. To this is the answer that we have adjusted the proposal, in line with the hearing opinions of the Ministry of Justice. They had strong objections to this with extended legal force, i.e. that the judgment in a case shall automatically be relied on when the lessee is brought to trial on a later occasion. It's taken out. We have listened very carefully to what has been the objections of the Ministry of Justice. I have a question to the Right. The reason for accepting all the good proposals for more full-time jobs is the Nurse Association. Then my question is: has the Nurses' Association actively advised the Right to vote on the proposals in the Chamber today because they are asking the Right to clarify this, or are you pushing the Nurses' Association in front of you because you don't want to take a clear position in the Chamber today? What amazes me most is actually the views of the Progress Party here – they are so afraid to disappoint the employees. The union has worked on this for a long time. It represents many of the women who would rather work a little more uncomfortable, firm and predictable than having a 20 pst position year after year. Here, the Progress Party believes that these don't understand their own best, or – I don't know what. At least they're afraid to disappoint the employees. I believe that the Progress Party today disappoints employees – whether in the goods trade or in the care sector – who want full-time jobs. They have strongly recommended that we extend the rights of those who are part-time employees – whether they are representatives of the Nursing Association, the Trade Union or the Office. That is why I am happy to be able to deliver it. The Progress Party is talking about the fact that this is actually social environmental dumping. Yes, this means that you are entitled to work the working time you have actually had, but for many, this is a much better option than today's situation. This will not take place on the right-hand side of the game – it is not well documented, more investigation is required. There has been a blue line in right-hand labour policy since they were contrary to the Factory Supervision Act in 1892. It's no, it's to be investigated, it's not documented. That is not what has brought Norway forward. This is not what has raised the standard in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2241	I'm pretty sure that Right is in government when the Factory Supervision Act was introduced, but I'm not going to start a historic dispute with the Council of State – she's, after all, a historian. We'd better check it later. I just want to draw the attention on page 12 of the Storting document, where – I don't read everything – an overall committee says: «Part-time employees shall have a statutory right to employment corresponding to their actual working hours.» So the whole committee agrees on this. When we say that the nurses' union says that the opposition has a point, it is because the government has chosen to say that ok, it is going to be a short time before this right is triggered – and they can do that because they have said that you should have the inconvenient position, the inconvenient working time you have, you should still have a duty to have – while we say that it is going to be a little longer before you get the right, but then you have to get a right like it to everyone else who works at the hospital. There is no doubt that what the government is proposing is possible. Some people think it's better than today's situation, but it's introducing some kind of b team in the world of work. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State answered the question she got instead. There weren't many questions, there were two. There was also some time left to go, but it's good that the answer comes now. Then to Martin Kolberg. I just have to correct one thing. I have never said that there are no differences in labour policy. I have just said that the way the Workers' Party describes the differences is wrong. The Labour Party is trying to paint up the election campaign as a choice between the brutalisation of work and the Labour Party. This is something that even the workers in Norway do not believe in. A large study, which was presented in the Class Battle a few weeks ago, shows that workers do not believe in the Scare Propaganda of the Workers' Party. But it's clear there's a difference. The Labour Party is more Catholic in labour policy than the Pope. Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen said, when she was Minister of Health, that the Working Environment Act is sacred. It is, to put it mildly, a poor starting point for a law that will apply in a flexible working life. We're for real tripartite cooperation. That means compromises where you listen to everyone. The working party is for bipartite cooperation. We say we need to have changes to adapt the Working Environment Act to a modern working life. The working party said no. They believe that although the labour market is changing, the law must not be applied in all respects. But there may have been some cracks in the armor of the Workers' Party, because when Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre on Twitter the other day was confronted with a 9 099 violation of the Working Environment Act at Aarhus, he replied: ‘Not good, mistakes in practice. But perhaps also with the law?" I believe Health Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, from the Workers' Party, was in on something there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2264	The Working Environment Act is not sacred, but it is gold worth. It should therefore also be developed in line with the needs of the labour market and in line with a more decent working life. The difference between the Working Party and the Right of the Røe Isak is that we want to strengthen it, they want to weaken it. We are strengthening it today when we introduce the right to full time. If, in principle, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Right is for this paragraph, propose a paragraph! The least that part-time women need now is even more reports, even more investigations. They need action. We give it to them, and they welcome it. I think that the opposition is taking a very recognizable and honest position today when they admit to being more concerned that some – some – may experience being used as an example in a lawsuit, perhaps against their will, than by all those who are exploited in part of the world of work, are being subjected to crimes, which do not experience any legal certainty regarding the labour law. The fact that the right-hand side is more concerned with the first than with all these employees is recognizable Right-wing policy and a recognizable Right-wing position. It – the right to have their employees respected – is as strong a right as the Right is concerned about. The opposition once again shows its true face when they say that they want to wait and see how obscene social dumping unfolds and develops before they possibly initiate action. What does it mean to wait and see? Well, that means leaning back and seeing that working life gets worse before they're going to consider doing anything. Who's hit by that? Indeed, workers in industries throughout the country and, in the long term, the entire Norwegian labour market model. Unlike the right-hand side, the government still wants to be in front. We want to fight social dumping by being in the forefront and listening to people out in the construction sites. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen obviously has bad memory, because we were out last night and got documented with stories in the construction sites what these things look like. The needs for action are present. We want to give the trusted ones more tools in the fight against the unbeing social dumping you are. The right side wants to wait and see. It's the employees who have to pay the price for it. In addition, we know that the measures that have worked so far will be reversed after the elections if the Right and Advance Party are given the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2275	It's sometimes I make a thought that I want to share with the Storting, and that's the idea of how labour policy would have evolved if the red-green parties had not won the election in 2005. We had implemented all the measures taken by the Bondevik government and against which the entire Norwegian working life protested, and we had almost not been able to implement the strengthening of Norwegian work environment legislation, which has been one of the jewels in the crown of the Stoltenberg government. I understand why they say that, but I react very strongly to expressions like ‘this is done for the recruitment of LO’. It is in case of a recruitment process that I acknowledge very badly. What I believe belongs to the advantage of the Western, open democracies and the Western economy is that we have a strong trade movement. I believe that the Norwegian uprising in an excellent way, in the fight against the opposition – especially against the Right Party and the Advance Party – has done something that has really laid the foundation for Norwegian welfare and value creation, namely protecting trade union rights in society. Of course, it's not about strengthening the offices and structures of Youngstorget, it's about the very fundamental thing, namely to take care of the opportunities of Norwegian working life to be a good work life, but also the great value-creature. I have great difficulties in understanding why representatives of the Norwegian right-hand side – especially the Right – do not take on the analysis that without a strong organised working life with a strong trade movement, you lose value. That's what's one of the important reasons we've had such a strong value creation. Therefore, international capital flows to Norway and makes Norway a successful capitalist society, strangely enough. But this analysis they push aside. That's the ugly thing, because what do they think they'll have in the next round? Are they going to reverse everything that they've done, that they've been against, that they've voted against? They will vote against later today as well. Where are we? Here the important battles are going to stand, and it's about the entire Norwegian community, not just about Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2284	It is very good to say about the Norwegian trade union movement. It is very good to say about a well-organised employer page as well. But this is the country's National Assembly, which is to balance opposing interests when it comes to it. Then, if you become so one-sided about historical ties that you ignore that in some questions there is not necessarily a full correlation of interest between individuals, nor between workers and the trade union movement. We get that illustrated in this case. So one shifts a central ability to dispose of its legal positions as an individual from the employee, who knows the reality of his enterprise better than anyone else, and gives a distant collective standing outside this enterprise, a right of action. That's what the Ministry of Justice has pointed out. I cannot see – as the representative Kolberg indirectly claimed – that the objections of the Ministry of Justice have been addressed and that the legislative proposal has been amended at that point. There will probably be opportunities for the representative of Kolberg to correct me if there is something I should have translated into the file. Otherwise, there are societies that lean so strongly on the trade movement that they have forgotten their democratic component. We have corporate societies, as many say are effective societies, it's just that one omits the popular element, what is going to balance the interests, which is one of the most important tasks of democracy, that we can live peacefully with each other even if we disagree on the individual matter. There may be a lot of reasons to get down to this debate and perhaps be willing to have a discussion about the objections that the department itself has had to the government's legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2291	Laila Marie Reiertsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2294	I want the government to be happy with its proposal on the right to a full-time job, but I'm also very realistic. I actually don't want to delete anyone. We have been told that we have supported the part-time project – one must be clear. We want those who want more work, more all the time, to try to get it, but we need good solutions for it. I don't want to say yes, they're going to get all the time, but then they're going to have to work more poorly. I don't want to. We have just had a debate here on sick leave and women. Taking extra guards for one year is long enough, but it's going to be the way they're going to be in the future, year after year, when I just say this: the work environment law doesn't work, the family life disappears, the sick absence of women goes up – I don't want to be a contributor to it. So for the construction industry... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2303	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2306	First, I would like to say to the Laila Marie Reiertsen Progress Party that there is an annual obligation to discuss both the needs and the use of part-time. So there are good opportunities to adjust this every year. When we look at the debate here today, we see an opposition that has been in opposition for eight years. The problem of part-time is not new. It's actually been over 30 years. When they get the opportunity and the opportunity to come up with really their own policies, we see that they do just as they tend to do: the back margin reflex comes in, and they put away all the tools they have. They say there is cooperation – no one is against cooperation – but they are against the instruments. There's the big difference between the opposition and the government parties in this room today. It is the instrument that the opposition does not want. And to put it that way, they don't want it this time either, even though they've had eight years to try to find good tools that can solve these challenges. When it comes to quotes about who is interested in trade union movement and not, I just want to quote Monica Mæland – I think she represents the Right in a good way – who says she is against all that trade union movement is for. That's the way it is in large parts of the right. When the representative Michael Tetzschner talks about corporate societies in this debate, I'm a little surprised why it should be involved in a debate on participation – for employees who have been victims and jobs in a b team. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen also pointed out that we in some way established a b team in the workplace with this. No, we don't. We have several b- layers that these instruments will do something for. That is the content of this matter. It's not about making a b-layer or a corporate society. There is one thing I would like to say at the end: the debate has been quite free to point to the major challenges we actually have today. Every day, we read about social dumping, about slaves, stone builders, cleaners — it's the unprofessional parts of the world of work that these tools are going to hit, and they hit well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2319	It was part of the post of the representative Tetzschner who made me take the floor again. Tetzschner says something like this proposal on collective redress deprives workers who know the circumstances of their own company, the right to assess the situation for themselves, and leaves the power to do so to a distant trade union movement. There are two points in this. One is that those who get their working conditions reduced by illegal rentals are very much those who work in the company, in the construction site or in the establishment where illegal rentals take place. The bill that I quote here says that trade unions ‘who have members of an enterprise that has hired workers from temporary employment agencies,’;» [[...]] So to the name of the trade movement as something distant, which is outside the companies. That's completely wrong. The trade union movement consists of members of the companies, individual workers who choose one of their colleagues to represent themselves, to take on the job it is to stand up for better working conditions and maintain the propriety of working conditions. So the organization goes on. The trade union movement is by no means a distant apparatus of power in the workplace. It is the work force of the workers to obtain decent pay and working conditions in their working life. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. The trade union movement is doing us all a favor, and our government will continue to strengthen the opportunities of the trade union movement to provide a decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2328	Martin Kolberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2331	The representative, Tetzschner, asked for a guide, and it's a challenge I'd like to accept. It is linked to a guide addressed to him, but also to the right-hand politicians in general, in this room and everywhere else. It is amazing that in 2013 – in an open democracy – you do not see the need for legislation that takes care of the weakest in the Norwegian labour market. When you do not, it must be because you have historical ties, and not we, as you claim – also in this debate. You have conservative historical ties that go beyond the fact that you're starting to talk about the responsibility of society as a whole. Then it's convenient to end this one-minute post by asking a question, now that we're going into a campaign: what does the right-hand side mean is the problem that the weak's rights are being protected in a good way? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2337	The number is out. The President must note that when the representative of Kolberg said 'they', I assume he did not mean the President. That is the President's speech to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2342	If I have understood the representative Tetzschner correctly, his concerns are related to the relationship, which I understand he is concerned about, that we are shifting power over the employees' interests out of the company and over to a distant trade union. That's the same thing we do when we accept the establishment of collective agreements in the world of work. It is the same thing that we have introduced throughout dispute law – yes, in labour law as such. Then we move power – from the individual, out of the workplace and to the judiciary. That's also what we do when we introduce collective redress. The point is, of course, what power are we moving? The power to charge what? It's the power to charge illegalities. The only people who have something to fear when we equip the trade unions with a court of law are those who do not comply with the laws and regulations. They have something to fear. So a little bit about what's really the situation of hired workers out in the workplace. Some of us have actually been in contact with them. Collective redress is not just for those who are at work, who are not hired. It's very much for those who are hired. What's their situation? Their situation is that a single complaint on the current situation leads to a loss of work and that they are usually sent home to the home country and the blacklist. That's the consequences of even trying to assert their right. This is what we are now dealing with when we equip the trade union movement with a collective court of law, so that the trade union movement on their behalf can ensure that laws and regulations are complied with in Norway and that employees' rights are upheld.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2351	It has been interesting to be able to follow the debate, but I think we should be a little more honest and precise when we use this speaker and argue against each other. I record that the representative Henriksen in his post says that the Progress Party does not want a discussion obligation and does not want discussions. It's completely wrong. In the setting, a unanimous committee writes: «Legal obligations to discuss the use of part-time positions are of particular importance in establishments which are not subject to collective bargaining obligations.» The whole of the Committee's comment is a joint comment, from all the members of the Committee. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have also said, is that we find it natural and logical, now that the obligation to engage in part-time placements is under way, that there is a corresponding obligation to discuss part-time positions. It's not to go against it; it's to be for it. Then I think it's a little unfair when you try to create from this pulpit the impression that you're against something you're actually unanimous for. Then I want to go back a little bit to my line change with the council. There was no deliberate rhetoric or polemics on my part, but I'm just asking, when the Council of State from this pulpit says that if you're in the vicarariat for someone who's on maternity leave or is long-term sick, you don't automatically have a claim to get that position. But then my example is, if you're in the care sector, you're 50 pst. in such a vicariate, 25 pst. in a vikariat in areas B and 25 pst. in area of activity C, the size of the job home is required when he has worked for one year in 100 pst. position? That's my question to the Council of State. How do we understand the law? We agree with this House, and it is a unanimous committee. But I would like to know what I am agreeing to adopt today. The Council of State won't say anything about that. She said that she could not handle individual cases from Stortinget's pulpit. This is a principle that this law is supposed to capture, and I record – with respect to reporting – that the same representatives say they have used the morning to eat soft cake with the trade movement. My question is, what have you eaten soft cake for? What is the reason for soft-cake pissing when we cannot clarify what we are adopting today, when we are dealing with this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2363	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2366	I want to clarify a misunderstanding for the sake of order. In one of the previous posts, I was given the impression that I was against collective redress. I'm not. Collective appeals are included in the current dispute law. In other words, people who form a group with a legal interest in getting a case brought before the courts can take out group cases. What we're discussing here is something else: whether to take the party skills of some employees and add it to the union. That's what the discussion is about. But I am not against the fact that you can try out the legal rules that you want to have illuminated. I also noticed that the representative of Kolberg did not take the opportunity to show specifically where the Ministry of Justice's objections to the legal interest requirement had been met.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2371	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2374	It was just a comment to the representative Eriksson that I should have said that the Progress Party was against the obligation to discuss. I didn't mean to say that, if I said so, but what I meant to say was that the Progress Party has no action, and that the obligation to discuss is just an instrument to address some of the issues raised by the Progress Party. But it is strange that the Progress Party has had eight years on it and has no other means than to say that they will investigate more. This is nothing new. We've had this problem over a very long time. So even if they're in favour of the obligation to discuss, they're against the principle of full-time law, as they say in the text, and they haven't yet come up with clear tools to solve this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2381	I am a little surprised that Robert Eriksson's argument for voting against this proposal is that it is unclear what the Progress Party would then agree to in the event. The Committee has ample opportunity to ask the Ministry a number of questions about how a law can be interpreted when we present a proposal to the Stortinget. But in this case there have been relatively few questions from the committee. When you have the opportunity to respond with legal help, the Progress Party does not use this opportunity. In other words, these questions appear in the last few days and appear only as an excuse for not wanting to strengthen the rights of employees. That is the reality of this matter. This does not want the Progress Party to agree. And then you put hypothetical questions out of the Great Council's pulpit. Of course, it is absolutely impossible – in the case of any law – to give a hypothetical single example that the Council of State here should be able to pass a judgment on, almost as a judge from the Parliament’s pulpit. This cannot be done in any kind of legal case – nor does it. What we decide today is to have the right to an expanded position similar to what you have actually worked. So the court has to decide, as they always do, in this kind of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2386	The representative Robert Eriksson has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2389	I'm a little surprised when the Council of State says we're in favour. We agree on the principles, and I think we should all be happy that we all agree on the principles. When you take up an important principle, and ask how we're going to understand this law, it becomes almost defecated as a hypothetical question by the Council of State. I find that strange; it is almost unworthy of this pulpit. I find it a little pointless that the Council of State uses that type of rhetoric when we initially agree. It's not a hypothetical question. It's a principle that it's important to clarify in relation to the law. We do not agree, but I am very concerned about one thing, and that is to know who this law will apply to. When does the right to an increased position occur? It's not up to the Council of State to answer. I record that this is the situation when we have completed this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2394	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox Before we go to case no. 13, the President will inform that the called alternate of the Hedmark County, Frøydis Elisabeth Sund, is now present and taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2410	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2424	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2433	The special rules for day-payers over 64 years of age were terminated on 1 January 2011. However, persons who had reached the age of 63 at that time could raise their daily allowances during a transitional period which was subsequently extended until 1 July 2012. Less than one year after the removal of the special rules, against the votes of the Progress Party, the Progress Party shall propose the reintroduction of the special rules so that all unemployed persons who receive the daily allowance after the age of 64 may continue to do so until the age of 67. In practice, this means that older unemployed people can go continuously on daily pay from 62 to 67 years of age. It was this possibility that a cross-political majority in the United Kingdom wanted to close when we abolished the special rules for older workers. I see, of course, that the Progress Party is promoting its proposal because we are holding big elections on 9 September, and I assume that we will meet this again during the election campaign. Today, it is also the second time that all other parties reject the proposals of the Progress Party, on the one hand, on the grounds of the pension reform, which the Progress Party also opposes, and on the other hand because the special rules were a form of reverse age discrimination. The same is true of a number of other proposals from the Progress Party. The party of progress has never been shyer than political solitude. On the contrary, the lot seems to thrive best when they run solo. But when the party, together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, keep proclaiming that they will reign together if the voters give them a mandate to do so, we have to ask whether this will be a negotiating theme when the parties are supposed to sit down and discuss a government programme after the elections. There is a broad political consensus that workers should be encouraged to work for as long as possible. In this way, the pension reform seems to work as intended. When we terminated the special rules for the unemployed over 64 years of age, it was because we became aware of the locking effect of the special rules. We saw that the specific rules were, in fact, a favourable early retirement scheme, simply because in some cases it was beneficial to raise the daily allowance and build new pension points rather than to raise the old-age pension, AFP, after 62 years of age. Older workers should have the same rights and opportunities as other workers, even if they were to become unemployed at the end of their working life. I understand, of course, that it is consistently more demanding to return older workers back to work than younger ones, but not always. Early and qualified follow-up is as important for the elderly as for younger workers, and I do not accept that older unemployed people are deprioritised in the action. On the contrary, the majority of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs calls for Nav to focus in particular on older unemployed people who are not entitled to a pension before the age of 67. Usually, this is a woman who for a long time in life has not been working outside the home, and who has not been working to build rights beyond the minimum pension. Of course, when all parties, except the Progress Party, insist that older jobseekers without pension rights should have a job offer or a job opportunity, it is also because economic social assistance is not usually a suitable income insurance for older people on the way out of work. Then I want to add: If Nav is unable to do that task, and it turns out that we are gradually getting a group of older jobseekers who are not entitled to either a day's pay or a flexible retirement pension in spite of their acquired age, we need to look at their economic situation with new eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2450	Yes, it is right, as the rapporteur says, that the Progress Party has promoted this proposal earlier, and we are promoting it again. We also believe that the situation is such that it is necessary and sensible to re-examine the proposal. The background to the removal of special rules for day-care recipients over 64 years was justified by the government that it would encourage more elderly people to stay longer in work and that it was considered unreasonable to use daily allowances as early retirement. Let me remind you in this room that we are talking here about people who have been long-term unemployed, former workers – older people who have been out of work for a long time. The prerequisite for longer work is to have work to do. I think we all have to agree on that. For these people, they don't have work to do. I agree with both the rapporteur and the majority – and the Progress Party has also included it in the proposal – that there is no desire for social security benefits rather than pension withdrawals. But we are also basically strong opponents of forcing people to retire against their will. For what do these people have a claim? Who are they? When these people have left their daily allowance period, what income do they have? Well, they can either get an activity, work relief money, disability benefit, be forced to take out a pension, if they've earned so much pension, or social assistance. These are the theoretical possibilities you have. I find it quite strange that you have a code that today, where a person who is 62 years old, who has earned a large pension, can take out his pension, and at the same time cancel his job and get a daily allowance on the pension after the quarantine period. While a female worker who has worked part-time for over 40 years, and is actually unemployed when she is 63 years old, has not earned enough pension money to take out her pension and is forced against either disability benefits, redundancy benefits or social assistance. That, I think, is an unworthy approach for that group, because that's what this is really about, that's what this is about. I record that the case rapporteur, the Labour Party representative and the prime representative of the government parties in this case, say that the people are not so important to him. Rather, he uses his whole article to come up with a characteristic of the Advancement Party. I meet people every day, and I've been contacted several times. I also know that the representative Gullvåg has been contacted in this case by e-mail, which we have all received. I have also seen the answers to Gullvåg, and I have seen the reactions to the answers that Gullvåg has given, and they almost feel deceived by the representative's response. But I'm not just meeting those requests, I'm getting more enquiries from people who're standing there without income insurance. Me and the Progress Party are busy with people, and we're concerned that people should have a dignity. That is why we have chosen to re-submit the proposal, while we have chosen to put forward a proposal that says that once you have earned enough pensions and start taking out your pension yourself – at 62 years, for example. – and then cancel their job in order to know about the daily allowance, we have to do something about the law, because we believe this is not right. If you are really unemployed, you should of course be able to withdraw both your pension and your daily allowance. But when you actively quit your job to increase your income, it's with and stimulates what was really the basis for removing the special rule. It's quite the opposite, you haven't solved that part of the problem at all, and that's why I think it's a pity that no more parties than the Progress Party see the everyday lives of the people affected here. If there aren't many people, one human being is enough to look at the code, at my discretion, when it hits as unlucky and gets as much unintended effects as it has. With this, I address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2467	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2470	It was a sensible change that the majority of the committee did, precisely because the effects of lock-in and the danger of lock-in were great, and because the special rules allowed for a very long period of theoretical walking on unemployment benefits — daily allowances — and not the necessary follow-up. But then it's also worth noting that the majority in the committee was very clear that Nav had a special follow-up responsibility for this group. It turns out that there are quite a few people standing in a situation where you both lose your daily allowance and don't have the opportunity to move into the ranks of pensioners, but there's a small group anyway. When the committee so clearly stressed that this group had to pay special attention to Nav, and that Nav also had to report specifically on how to follow them up, I hoped there was a signal that the department and government noticed. It is worth noting that the same statements, the same clarifications and the same concern also air this time. They say this is a group that has to be followed extra closely. It is not difficult to understand the intention behind the proposals of the Progress Party, namely that, as a result of this change of rules, some people can end up in a very unfortunate situation. Now it's not like every senior has trouble getting into work, but I think we have to be so honest to say that it's probably harder for a 65-year-old to get a new job than it is for a 25-year-old or a 35-year-old, and if you don't have the opportunity to move into a pension – a real opportunity for it – life can be difficult. I hope the Department and the Council of State notice that this is a group that you have to follow extra closely. I must also say that it is a more important message to give when we debate this matter than to express great frustration, as Mr Gullvåg did, at the fact that the proposal of the Progress Party is coming up at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2483	I have a great deal of understanding of the proposal from the Progress Party – I want to start by saying that. The Christian People's Party has also received enquiries about the winding-up of special rules for older people who receive a daily allowance, and it is actually a small group that has come into a kind of dispute. I have also asked the Council of State questions about this. The question was: What measures, apart from social assistance, can help those who do not have the opportunity to take any further action or work? In a way, they are stated. The response from the Council of State — and not long ago — was that they should continue to receive appropriate follow-up to the establishment, offer of action or work, and that this applies regardless of whether they come within or outside the existing guarantees. That is not a good enough answer when Nav does not give them these offers and has no more tools. That is why it is also interesting what the Committee has done. The Council of State replied to this Document 8 proposal. In the letter we received from the Ministry of Labour, the Council of State said: ‘The economic security network is economic social assistance under the Social Services Act of the State of Labour and Welfare.’ It was not, in my opinion, a good answer, given this issue. Perhaps that is why I also sympathise with the Progress Party proposal, because the Council of State has so clearly referred to social assistance. Having said that, however, I am very pleased that we, the majority of the committee, all of us except the Progress Party, have gathered together and said that if it turns out that older workers who have been unemployed for a long time are difficult to communicate to the labour market, the majority of the department is particularly concerned with this group and is considering other labour-oriented measures or income protection as an alternative to social assistance, until they can retire. I'm very positive about that, and I mean and expect, and hope and believe, too, that the Council of State can confirm that it's not social help we're now going to refer these few people to, given that they're not actually being helped within the Nav system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2503	The special rules for older persons receiving the daily allowance were terminated with effect from 1 January 2011. With the introduction of a new flexible old-age pension, much more was able to take out old-age pensions early. There is also an explicit desire for more people to be able to stand longer in the labour market, which is supported by the new old age pension. Therefore, the need for specific rules in the day-to-day pay legislation was much lower than in the past. The suspension was also justified by the fact that adaptations to passive benefits were prevented before the retirement age. After the repeal, the same conditions apply to the right to a daily allowance for this group as for the unemployed otherwise, except for a slightly less stringent requirement to be a true job seeker, since beneficiaries over the age of 60 may be local job seekers. However, persons who had reached the age of 63 on 1 January 2011 and received daily allowances could receive daily allowances under the special arrangements for a transitional period until 1 July 2012. All those covered by the transitional regime would be offered work or action before the end of the transitional period. When the transitional period expired on 1 July 20l2, there were 578 transitional cases, i.e. persons receiving a daily allowance for more than a maximum daily allowance of 104 weeks. The vast majority of those at work can take out an old age pension before the age of 67, and many from the age of 62. More than half of those in the transitional regime chose to do this. In addition, as the majority of the Committee points out, there is a wide range of possibilities to withdraw the AFP. Employment among the elderly is good, and unemployment is low. However, some do not manage to get into work after the end of the day’s pay period. These continue to have the right to be registered as jobseekers at the Employment and Welfare Act, and many could be guaranteed jobs or measures within the scope of the long-term unemployment guarantee. Persons who have been registered as the State of Employment and Welfare shall also receive appropriate follow-up of the establishment, irrespective of whether they are part of a Guarantee Group. If the unemployed person does not succeed in coming to work, the individual may be briefed on alternative income protection. The economic security network will be economic social assistance under the Social Services Act of the State of Labour and Welfare. I note that the majority of the Committee agrees that there is no need to reintroduce specific rules for older beneficiaries of the daily allowance. Through the long-term unemployment guarantee and the signals already given to the Labour and Welfare Act in the 2012 and 2013 letters of allocation, these unemployed persons shall be provided with employment or labour-oriented measures. I notice that the majority are asking the Ministry to come back to the question of specific measures or alternatives to economic social assistance such as income protection for older jobseekers who do not have the right to take early retirement. With regard to the proposal on restrictions on day-to-day pay rights for people who are self-indebted to the unemployed, I refer to the opinion in the 2011 budget proposal. It appears that the government will further assess the relationship between temporary social security benefits and flexible retirement pensions, including the relationship between day-care and old-age pensions. There is currently no evidence that the legislation is being exploited contrary to the intention. But we're going to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2520	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2523	I started my post by correcting Gullvåg, who is going to engage in a hard attack on the Progress Party, and who claims that there was a cross-political agreement to remove this special arrangement. It wasn't. The party of progress has opposed this from day one. It has also been addressed in written questions, on oral questions, and in earlier proposals to go back to the old system. Getting unemployed is pretty tough. It hits hard, and especially when older people lose their jobs. Public servants do not get into this situation, but it affects those who uninflictedly lose their jobs in private businesses, and especially hard hit those who have not earned rights in popular rights to withdraw early retirement. It particularly affects those who have not had good occupational pension schemes, those who have initially earned poor pensions in social security, and those who are not entitled to AFP. This group has in no way been taken care of since the repeal of the special scheme. On the basis of the preparatory work for the repeal of Paragraphs 4 to 17, the abolition of this was justified by seeking to prevent persons between 62 and 67 years of age from using the scheme in the context of the introduction of a new pension scheme. So the government tried to prevent people who could take out early retirement under new pension rules from doing so. That they did not receive compulsory pensions, but chose to make use of §4-17. When the matter was being dealt with, it was not fully clarified for Stortinget what consequences it would have for those who did not have the opportunity to withdraw a pension before reaching the age of 67. In particular, many women are in that situation — when women used to be at home or had part-time work. The argument against reintroducing the scheme is that there are now several older people working. Yes, there are several older people who are in the job they have, but, as Eriksson said, it is not easy for those who do not have a job to apply for a new job. It is also not a priority in Nav, naturally, when so many young people and so many younger people with disabilities are out of work. Not everyone can be given priority; although some politicians in this room prefer to use the word ‘priorities’, the highest priority group is not the elderly and the unemployed. It's not easy when you've been out of work for maybe a couple of years, and you're 65 years old, going into a new job. It is clear that this paragraph does not affect the core voters of the Workers' Party, not those who have had safe and good jobs with good pensions, those who have AFP schemes, but it affects those who may have been at work with bad schemes, small jobs that have been independent and unable to find a new job. It is unimportant that they should be referred to social services and have to sell from farm and land – so this needs to be sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2532	I take the floor first of all to address the fact that the representative Eriksson allows himself to refer to a private correspondence between the undersigned and an individual on the occasion of the case, without referring to the whole of this correspondence, which, of course, like all such matters, has several pages. I'm not going to take this anymore, but I think this is some kind of indiscretion that should not be carried out from this pulpit. Then I would like to add that in my first post I made an explicit statement that the Progress Party has opposed the removal of the special rules for 64-year-olds the two times this case has been dealt with in the Stortinget, including this one. This does not prevent otherwise there has been a cross-political agreement on the decisions taken by the Storting, minus, of course, the Progress Party. I want to add that social assistance is an individual benefit. And it doesn't necessarily have to be like that, and neither is it, that social assistance in all municipalities is practiced so that everyone who receives it has to go from the farm to the ground in order to get money at all for living. But there are also municipalities that practice it this way. That is why I believe that social assistance in such cases as we are talking about here is not a real form of income protection for those who will lose their jobs at the end of a long working life and who also do not have pension rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2542	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2556	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that the speaker on the list, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2565	I would like to begin briefly with the facts in the matter as the rapporteur. This is a proposal from the Progress Party which contains two proposals. One is that the Stortinget asks the government to put forward proposals to restore the annual social security balance to treatment in the Stortinget as it was before 2011. And the second is to ask the government to put forward proposals to eliminate underregulation of 0.75 p.m. of current pensions. These two proposals are not supported by other parties in the Committee and the background to the fact that current regulation is part of the pension agreement; which is also referred to in the vote by the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party. All parties refer both to the pension agreement in 2005 and 2007. The new rules on pension regulation have been incorporated into the law. There are now fixed rules for the regulation of pensions. This increases predictability, both for pensioners and for governments. It is carried out, as has also been done in the past, discussions and meetings with the organisations of pensioners and employees in advance of the regulation, and what the Council of State has also stated in its reply to the Committee, is that there is a good balance for different reasons, and that the rules will, in any case, ensure, in general, that pensioners increase purchasing power every year. The rules provide for the predictability necessary for the annual regulation, and therefore there will be no need for a roll-out decision on regulation and for this to be taken to the Stortinget – as had been done in the past. I believe that the Progress Party itself will explain its proposals in the matter and the background to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2574	This year's budgetary adjustment case with regard to the regulation of the basic amount of public money has just arrived at the Stortinget. It increases the purchasing power of pensioners and unemployed people, but it continues to lag behind employees. Let me start with the Newspaper on 16 May. There, Bjørg Hageløkken, who is the head of the union's Pensionist Committee, says the following: ‘This year we have received a protocol offer where the Pensioners Committee opposes the annual under-regulation of pensions by 0.75 per cent, and we hope it will be possible to do something about this before the entire pension reform is evaluated in 2017.’ In the same article Bjørg Hageløkken further says: ‘Pensioners throughout the country are simply cursed when they learn about underregulation.’ In the Confederation of Trade Unions, it comprises 90 000 members. I fully understand and share the sympathy with the head of the union's retirement committee, Bjørg Hageløkken, and all the country's pensioners. For me, it's incomprehensible what the Stortinge did in 2011, that is to say, to bring back the regulatory regime as it was at the time of the people's fear in 1967. After having had a big debate on how the social security guidelines should be, and how to base regulations that came into place from 1 May 2003, a majority in the United Kingdom was clear that pensioners should have about the same purchasing power development as the active ones. The concept of ‘approximate’ should and could be understood as meaning that some groups of pensioners could have a higher level of regulation than the active ones. Unfortunately, that principle has been breached by government parties to introduce the pension reform, a pension reform that was widely endorsed by all parties, except the Progress Party. I also think it is a little incomprehensible that Norwegian pensioners – the only group in this society – should not be allowed to regulate their purchasing power in line with wage developments. Why don't they get it? Unemployed persons receive it, job-clearance recipients receive it, and the G is regulated according to wage developments. So the pensioners are the only group that doesn't get it. It's incomprehensible to me, it seems strange, and it just confirms that the Progress Party is still the main defender of pensioners and also the best guardians of pension policy. And that's what we're going to keep going in the future. It could therefore be interesting to get the Council of State, which is going to have posts after me, to explain the logic. If we assume that a person who was born in 1963, with an industrial worker's salary as an average throughout his life, is to have his pension subsidized if he leaves as a pensioner at 67 years of age, at 155 400 kroner during his retirement period, or if one withdraws a pension at 62 years of age, that one is to be subordinated at over 253 000 kroner, that is, that an entire annual pension is subordinated, why does she think this is right for all those who are covered by the new pension reform? I think that's a bad policy. That is why the Progress Party is promoting a proposal that goes back to the same principles as were in force from 2003 to 2011. With this I address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2599	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Before the government councilman Anniken Huitfeldt gets out, it might make sense that the right-wing representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen also gets his five-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2604	The English-Irish statesman Edmund Burke spoke of what he called a generational community. It was a sort of vaccination against the idea that society consists only of us who are here and now, for, said Edmund Burke, society also consists of the generations that have been before us, the generation that exists now, and the generations that come after us. It is in the perspective of the pension agreement, because – with all due respect for my good colleague Robert Eriksson – it is not the pensioners who get a new pension scheme; we are the ones who get a new pension scheme. One born in – let's take a random year – 1978, is going to get the same pension scheme that current pensioners get, only with a few more savings. For example, the person born in 1978 must: Probably work three years longer to get the same pension paid that you can get from your 67-year retirement today. It is such that the underregulation, as the Progress Party calls it, is a central part of the new pension reform. It also makes sense, because the way in which the system was set up was simply to ensure that a higher payment was made initially, and also a lower regulation as the pension years progressed, while the option probably had to be – if you were to have a sustainable pension system in the future – to have a lower payment initially and then a higher regulation as the pension years went on. But it would probably be a bad solution, because there's reason to assume that most people get more joy from the money when you're 71, than when you're 91, even though we're all going to live longer and longer – and maybe better and better too. So the right supports the pension reform and stands by it. On the other hand, we are more critical of the other proposals made by the government for Norwegian pensioners during this period. In order to adapt the tax system to the pension reform, the Stortinget, on a proposal from the government, made changes to the pensioner tax in 2011. One of the reasons why many Norwegian pensioners are currently upset is that the combination of the different measures has become too large for many. Through the abolition of the tax restriction rule and the introduction of a new pensioner deduction that benefits all pensioners, the government did something good for one group, but paid for it by punishing another group. The result was that very many pensioners – quite people with a relatively high pension, but nevertheless very many pensioners – got a large, extra tax bill from the red-green government. The right was critical of the way the red-green press went through a tax increase for the pensioners, and we're still critical. With the Right system and arrangements for the pensioners, calculations showed that, so to speak, all pensioners would come out just as well or better. Therefore, there is reason to stand by the pension agreement as a generation-solidaristic settlement, but at the same time there is no need to hide that Norwegian pensioners – many of them – have had a lower tax rate, higher taxes, with this red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2615	The reform of pensions is a very comprehensive reform. It has been investigated for a long time and has been treated in Stortinget on several occasions. The main principle was clarified by two broad agreements in Stortinget, in 2005 and 2007. The details of the legislation were adopted in 2009. Pension reform is a compromise between different considerations, including: that the pension scheme should be economically sustainable over time and that pensioners should have a good income development. The Pension Commission proposed in its time to regulate old-age pensions during payment slightly lower than the wage growth. At the same time, it was an objective that pensioners should normally grow in purchasing power even with the new regulation. The new rules for the regulation of pensions during payment have been endorsed by a broad majority of the Storting and are part of the overall approach to ensuring a more sustainable pension system. I also remember that the wage increase compared with the regulation of pensions is an average for employees in total. Many employees will have a weaker growth than the average, for example: many older workers have a weaker wage growth than younger workers. Even with the new regulation, the pensions of the people are often better regulated than private pensions. Regulations are often better than in other countries, where during-payment pensions can be regulated according to price growth. The different parts of the pension scheme are related. When calculating the level of pension at withdrawal, account is taken of the regulation of the pension payment. Therefore, within a given financial framework, a stronger regulation of pensions during payment implies a lower starting level for pensioners when they move to retirement. Many have the best health in their early years as a pensioner and may therefore rather want a higher starting level and somewhat weaker regulation of the pension during payment than that resulting from wage regulation. The new rules governing the pension have been incorporated into the law. Thus, there are fixed rules for the regulation of the pension. This increases predictability both for pensioners in terms of income trends and for governments in terms of public expenditure and sustainability of the pension system. The size continues to be the overall responsibility for the rules of popular fear by adopting the laws that also govern regulation. Meetings with pensioners’ and employees’ organisations are still ongoing prior to regulation. The data base has been discussed at these meetings. I believe the rules for regulating pensions are a good balance for different reasons, and they will normally ensure that pensioners increase purchasing power every year. The rules provide for predictability of the annual regulation and therefore there is no longer a need for a large-scale regulation decision. It would be unfortunate if only two years after the entry into force of the new regulation rules, the Storting should go back on these and this important part of the pension reform. In the case of income trends among pensioners, it has been something special among those with the lowest pension in recent years. The minimum pension rate has risen relatively sharply, and there has been a better trend among the minimum pensioners and the age pension for the same as for employees in general. It's because we have a good social system. I believe that the tax system also builds up under this. The change in taxes on wealth just makes the pensioners with low wealth come out better than before. I believe that overall we have had a good social development when we look at both the tax system and the development of the pension in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2633	I really just have a very simple question to the Council of State. I think we have to distinguish between the regulation of the pension in terms of vesting time and payoff time. I also think we should distinguish some concepts in terms of the development of the level of performance increases. The reason for an increase in the minimum retirement age is that the level of performance was increased up to 2G. It had nothing to do with the regulatory principles as such. But my simple question to the Council of State is: Why does the Council of State think it makes sense for Norwegian pensioners to have lower purchasing power than the average of the economically active? Is it because Norway cannot afford to provide the group that has been involved and builds up the well-being and prosperity of our country, the same purchasing power development of its paid pension as the average of the economically active?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2642	If the representative is concerned about averages, there has been as good a trend in purchasing power among pensioners as among employees, if we look at averages. But what's important is that we've got a new pension reform that means that the representative Eriksson and my generation have to work longer to get the same pension as those who move into the ranks of pensioners this year. We live longer, we take out pensions over several years, so we have to work longer to get the same pension. This regulation is part of the pension reform that ensures the best purchasing power in the first years. That's important, because then you have a better chance of using the money. I believe that we have now received a sustainable pension scheme, and I am particularly pleased that the minimum pensioners are the group that has had a large increase in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2649	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2655	First to the Government's response: the Council of State stands on this pulpit and says that wage developments are an average of the whole wage trend of society as a whole. So what we're going to do is we're going to have a technical calculation sample. Then it's not possible to say at the same time that the pensioners get the same trend as the average of the employees, for the pensioners get minus 0.75 pst. After all, the de facto deduction is included in the pension reform, and then it goes without saying that there will be a lower level of purchasing power. It's pretty simple. At the same time, I very much agree with what my good friends in the Right, and the representative Røe Isaksen, says, but in this particular case I have probably a slightly different view than the representative Røe Isaksen. I also have a different view than the Council of State when she says that they ensure that pensioners will have better purchasing power in the first few years than in the last few years. It is precisely because for every year you are a retired person, you will lose more and more purchasing power with the new regulatory principles. The Progress Party believes that this is unfair. I have to respectfully report being allowed to say to this matter: Should we Norwegian politicians go around and decide which age group uses the money most – whether you are 91 years old and have less use for money than when you are 67? It is quite wrong for me that we, as politicians, should go in and decide. The individual must almost be allowed to decide when and at what age the money is needed. I have full confidence in people. Then I must also be allowed to say that how to regulate current pensions has nothing to do with either the provisions of the pension reform relating to earnings or payments, which are the two pillars of the pension reform. But if you think – and we have now confirmed that once again – that the pension reform should be a savings reform, where you think that Norwegian pensioners should cover that saving because you can't afford to give them the wealth development that the rest of society has, yes, you admit that you think it's a savings reform. It is recognised that the pension reform is austerity reform. It seems to me to be a good thing to have confirmed, and it makes me even more confident that the principles that do not underpin the principles of the pension reform at all, regarding the regulation of the pension paid out, should be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2664	I noticed that the representative Røe Isaksen referred to the 2011 tax conversion, which led to a redistribution of the taxation of pensioners, among others. so that pensions up to NOK 340000 received tax vouchers each year, while pensions in the order of NOK 390000 received a certain tax tightening every year. Then the representative forgot to add that this conversion, this redistribution, was sued with a contribution from the taxpayers of 1.5 billion. NOK, so that a total conversion was made that gave a tax relief to the pensioners. Then I want to add -- because that's right -- that there's no group in society that's had such a good purchasing power development as the pensioners in the last ten years, especially this is the case with the minimum pensioners. But it is also true that, as an element of the pension reform, and in order to support the sustainability of the pension reform, underregulation of 0.75 pst has been introduced. relative to the average income of society. This does not mean that purchasing power is being weakened. Purchasing power is improved, but the purchasing power of pensioners is slightly lower than that of employees in society. Thus, together with the adjustment of life expectancy, underregulation is the main element of the sustainability of the pension reform. Of course, that's why we made a pension settlement where these elements are included, and where the pensioners are also involved and provide for future generations to have good pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2673	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2687	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2696	In a Europe where many young people are without hope of jobs and opportunities for the future, there is no greater political task than securing work and activity. Young people are our top resources when we build Future Norway. They are well suited to the task when we have low unemployment and new jobs are created. Nevertheless, we see that many young people with health problems and disabilities are struggling to enter the labour market and need a strong inclusion policy. No human being is the same, and often the complex problem is the one individual can have. Then it is important that we have a wide range of instruments in the inclusion policy, so that we can meet the individual where he or she is. Young people are especially priority in the government's work. We have strengthened the guarantee schemes for young people outside of work or school to also apply to young people with disabilities. Nav has been given increased resources to provide rapid assistance. In order to support the workline and provide opportunities for more young people to enter the labour market, the government introduced a Job Strategy for people with disabilities. In particular, the strategy targets young people under 30 years of age and includes a number of new measures to improve Nav's follow-up, reduce the barriers for employers to employ people with different disabilities and provide young people outside the labour market with valuable skills, experience and opportunities to work. Trials with organisation grants and organisation guarantees are important in order to reduce barriers to participation and provide security for potential employers. The schemes are flexible and provide room for individual provision, and the employer will be able to cover any costs associated with different adaptations to the work situation. Positive is also the increased use of functional assistance to assist practical tasks in working life. The use of mentors to ensure the necessary professional, social and practical support for the respondent or employee is also important. There is now greater understanding, more knowledge and transparency about mental health. It also reflects the users of Nav. Follow-up work between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour on the Strategy Plan for Work and Mental Health is important. Early efforts will be able to help many young people before they get more trouble. In the public health report, the government announced that it would be necessary to strengthen the school health service by approx. 300 new posts for the State budget for 2014. This will mean increased capacity and availability where all young people meet, i.e. at school. Early intervention could prevent major and more serious problems later on. It is important for young people’s opportunities in the labour market that they have completed upper secondary education or receive other education. Here, the government's investment in New GIV is important, so that more people complete the school. It is also particularly important that those with disabilities are given training opportunities. For this reason, it has been important to ensure equal rights to education also for students with chronic diseases or disabilities. The new scheme allows for extra grants, 12 months of study support and for securing against additional debt burden in the event of delay. The system of labour and education travel has been another important step taken by the government. There is a lot that can be drawn out by what we are doing today, but I want to mention separately the Los project, where a youth gets to deal with what gives close and individual follow-up, so that in this way you strengthen the connection to school and work. Living with major social problems over time is directly harmful to health. We know that many children and young people live under unbearable conditions at home and are at greater risk of falling out of school and work. For this reason, the largest child-restraint promise of 20 years has been important to ensure that more young people are given the opportunity to cope with school and work. We can conclude that there are relatively few disabled people under 30 years of age when the rate is 1.2 pst. There is an important clarification in a debate that can sometimes give the impression that there is explosive growth in this area. Overdrive of a problem can contribute to stigmatisation. Safe financial arrangements for those excluded for various reasons contribute to the individual being able to focus on schooling, interventions or other things that can give a foothold in the workplace, rather than worrying about the economy. In addition, it is an important protection against poverty. We go into a time when we need all the labour we can mobilise. That's why inclusion policy becomes a major effort in the years to come, so that even more people get the opportunity to contribute, and society gets enough labour to do the job we're going to do. There are many good intentions in the various points in the draft representative that we are discussing here today. What they have in common, however, is that they belong in the budgetary process. It should therefore be noted that the proposals are annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2731	First, allow me to commend the proposers for promoting an important proposal in an important matter. The Progress Party and I share the concerns of the proposers that too many people are permanently out of the labour market and are turning to permanent disability. At the same time, we know that once you have been granted permanent disability benefits, it is almost impossible to get back to work again and again. Let me just take a few numbers that concern me: when we see the development of health pay statistics in the last ten years, we see that the greatest increase, i.e. an increase of 145 pst., has occurred in mental illness, and most of it is easier mental illness. We also see that it has a connection with disability rejuvenation. Six out of ten who are permanently disabled under 40 years of age are due to a mental disorder. It tells me that we're not good enough to reach that group of people, not good enough to give them the opportunity to be part of the working life, but that in many ways we put them outside and stamp them permanently out of working life. It also encourages us to think new, more forward-looking and more actively about how to treat people with mental disorders, how to make it possible to come back. We know that most of them under 40 have diagnostics like depression and anxiety, which we know is not a permanent condition, but a condition that actually with the right help, good help, close help and early help can provide good results and the ability to get back to work. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is preferable to have a much closer follow-up to that group in order to help them get back to work. But if you're going to succeed in doing that, you're also going to be completely dependent on being even clearer and having greater commitment to the voluntary offer that exists. Just to name a few: Uniques, who stay over here in Greenland, RIBO and the Freshlands, are great offers that can rehabilitate people, especially with mental disorders, so that they get back to work. That we do not have a more offensive policy and use the available capacity to realize their dream of participation in the world of work better than what we do is incomprehensible to me and the Progress Party. That is why we have also made proposals together with the Right and Christian People's Party to strengthen this very offer. We also depend on whether we succeed, having more action places within the traditional labour market measures. This is why the Progress Party wants an obliging escalation plan, with a clear objective of providing 8 000 more sites for action. It could help far more people to get the opportunity to participate in the world of work, rather than to be permanently stamped out of the world of work. I believe that, as politicians and societies, we cannot afford or should allow ourselves to give up people. Although it may seem right here and now to grant disability benefits, we should not allow ourselves to give them up. We're going to follow people in a close and good way to give them the opportunity for a good life. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party either promotes alone or together with others. In addition, I would like to make it clear that proposal No. 11 and proposal No. 12 the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way, provided that our proposals have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2748	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2751	Nice to come after the representative Eriksson, but he is not as vertically challenged as I am, so it always takes some time to bring down the pulpit! From 2010 to 2012, there was an increase of 17.1 pst in the number of young people. It is absolutely right that there are not many, there are only 10,000 people, but nevertheless the increase is worrying. When the Right began to point this out some years ago, there were many from the red-green parties that took time to suspect us. We were told that this was something on the right that went up because we were cynical, or because we wanted to cut the performances, which was not a real problem because it was so few. Fortunately, over the years, we have come to recognise that the increase in the number of young people is worrying. It's a strong increase, and we have to try to do something about it. It is also part of a picture where the proportion of disability and the share of health-related benefits in Norway has stabilised at a high level. That it hasn't increased a lot in the last ten years, it's true, but you can ask yourself if you'd be satisfied with a unemployment rate that would have stabilized at 8, 9 or 10 pst. I think the answer is no. Let me once again state that for the Right it is a very central principle in the welfare community that you are too sick to work, you should not work either. Then you have to have a decent benefit from the welfare community. It's true whether you're 19 or 69 years old. The challenge we're talking about here is that we know that some people – point 1 – could think of working, a bit or more, and – point 2 – that we fear that more people than necessary are referred to a permanent, permanent disability instead of getting the help and follow-up they need. In a survey carried out by Agderforschung a few years ago, a life I did not choose, three different groups were pointed out as having passed on health-related benefits. One group had been diagnosed with mental illness. The other group had congenital disorders, i.e. something they were born with and had from the birth of, for example. a very severe disability or mental retardation, which qualified them for disability. The third group had a combination of lifestyle factors and mild mental disorders. Very much indicated that this group, which was then not born with a disease that was incompatible with getting into work, had developed a state and a life situation that made it impossible to get them into work. It's for this group we can reasonably say that even though it's a point formula to claim that the system can occasionally make people sicker, we can say in each case that the system hasn't made people better, and we've failed to get them into work. We have to do a lot in the school field to prevent the drop-out. We have to re-prioritize the psychiatry, so that not the only offer people get, is to wait in line for weeks or months to get psychiatric help. We need to coordinate the measures in the public sector, so once you have received psychological help once a week, the rest of your offer is not to sit at home and wait for the psychologist. We need to address our response and return system, which works well in some areas, but which does not deliver the results we could expect at all. 8 B.C.E. kr per year. Then we have to address far more offensively than the red-green government the very basic question: although everyone should get a good and decent order – prosit! – when you are young and unable to participate in the labour market, what is the reason why the system that is safe and permanent today also has to banish one to exclusion 10, 20 and 30 years later? What we're saying is, if you get a mental breakdown when you're 25 years old, and then you're right to need it, for example. five or six years of being healthy and out of work, perhaps in other ways of being active, you have come into a system that automatically requires you to be out of work even ten years after – at the age of 35, at the age of 45, at the age of 55, at the age of 65. It won't be a nobility for the welfare community, but it'll be a very easy sleep cushion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2768	The representative might like to make some suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2771	The representative, thanks for the reminder, would like to address the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2776	The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2779	Measures to prevent young people from falling permanently away from work are an incredibly important topic. There's a lot of political consensus about you having to do a better job. There's a lot of people that we all know in the environments that we live in. This work is becoming increasingly demanding. Russ and psychiatric challenges are affecting more and more young people, and the prevention work, getting in early to help people with a warm hand, is incredibly important. At the same time as more people are struggling with alcohol and psychologically demanding life situations, there is also an increasing group of industrious young immigrants who come to Norway, who in many cases take jobs that those who are a little different from those who have been given earlier. The government has its job strategy for people with disabilities under 30 years of age – the government has a clear focus on it – a scheme to be evaluated in 2013 to provide a better knowledge base for new initiatives, so that more young people can participate in the labour market. The opposition's various groups have a total of twelve proposals for improvements. I would say that many proposals are important, but in this case I think a clear focus is the most important. The simple is many times the best. What am I thinking about then? Well, simply that normal physical work is very good for many, i.e. ordinary physical, useful work – and I would like to stress useful – that they have to feel that they are doing a job in line with others, that one is getting proud of the job one is doing, that a thing to master a situation sails if one has perhaps had very difficult growth conditions, and manages to deal with it – simply learning to work. There are different programs from the government to do this, and one of the important ones is the qualification program, which I've taken up many times, and with which the government has done a great job. What eventually becomes the major challenge for the qualification programme is, not least, the young people implementing the programme get work and what kind of work it will be. Ensuring that many of the young people concerned have the possibility of a physical, useful job associated with the possibility of having a regular employment relationship with an employer — whether private or public — in which the public pays a salary subsidy for a period of time, so that it is involved, is paid on a monthly basis. I think it should have been a clearer focus on these simple things that are simply about learning to work, having a physical, useful work with which we have experience working well for very many within the groups of rushes and psychiatry, and which in practice does not contain many words, but which makes them the case, can grow through their work and thus gain interest in new parts of their lives, get new opportunities, and thus can function as a human being in a whole, good society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2797	Everyone who has been on the pulpit today has expressed more or less great concern that so many young people are out of work and are unable to cope with their own lives. And there's reason to be concerned about the increase in the number of young people. Many young people feel abandoned by the system today. They get a disability pension, and a lot of people say they don't get a new chance. It's sad, and it's a reality that many people have had. The number of young workers has increased sharply in the last two years. It goes in the wrong direction. Being at work and being able to support yourself has to do with quality of life. But it's not just that. In addition, it is socio-economically beneficial if we are able to increase the employment of, for example: disabled persons and prevent it from going in the wrong direction. Let me just refer to what the AFI, the Institute of Labour Research, has recently presented in a report that is very interesting. They say, among other things: that if you increase the employment of people with disabilities by, for example: 5 pst., it will give a socio-economic gain of about 13 billion. kr over a 10-year period. Each new employee will contribute, over the decade, a socio-economic gain of nearly NOK 900000. If the employment rate increases by 10 pst. instead of 5 pst., the win will be doubled. These are incredibly positive results. We actually need a power cap in most areas. Let me mention one area that several people have been in: drop-out in school. That so many do not finish school is very serious. This will also lead to that one does not get into work so easily. It turns out that those who do not complete the school are also more out of work, of course. I think we should get closer cooperation, for example. between school and work and between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Knowledge. It could have been tempting to ask the Council of State what kind of cooperation is currently taking place at ministerial level – which I believe is a good condition for cooperation at other levels too. It is also necessary to show that there is a need to cooperate centrally, in the departments, on actions, experience, knowledge, etc. Finally – a little heartache: the proposals that are being promoted today from the opposition parties are good. I wish that the government parties would have been involved in these proposals, because it is not just the government parties, the government or the departments that are able to find the right and proper measures. The government has done a lot, but is that enough? No, that's not it. The opposition parties also have good contact – we get good input from them, from young people and from the auxiliaries. The fact that more and more young people with disabilities are out of work should also mean that all proposals should be received with thanks. The rapporteur, Thor Erik Forsberg, explained that he did not want to be on the proposals that they actually belong in a budgetary process. Then I have to ask: does it mean that the government parties would say yes if we had put forward the proposals in relation to budgetary work or had them as proposals in a budget debate? Eight years in opposition under a majority regime have probably taught me that good proposals are, essentially – yes, always – rejected, no matter when we have to stand here and promote them. I'm looking forward to the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2823	Young people represent a large resource and there are large costs associated with falling out of school and working life at an early age. These costs relate to both individuals and society as a whole. That is why I am very concerned about the efforts made to avoid young people falling permanently away from work. I believe that the government's labour and welfare policies largely cover the representatives' proposals for measures to prevent young people from falling permanently away from work. Some proposals concern areas where we have already initiated measures that we believe have a very good impact. This applies, inter alia, to: the priority of young people in Nav, through the new guarantee scheme for young people with disabilities and young people with disabilities, the Job Strategy for people with disabilities, and the labour redundancy effort as a wage subsidy. We have also concluded a cooperation agreement with NPISHs on health and social services, which provides a good basis for contributions from voluntary, non-profit and private organisations and businesses, in order to prevent young people from falling permanently outside the labour market. Other proposals concern areas where we are in the process of evaluating, developing or further developing actions. This applies, inter alia, to: work on a new follow-up plan to ensure work in the field of work and mental health and the work of the Minister of Knowledge to develop vocational training in secondary school. I would like to add some comments to the discussion about how many are actually going on social security benefits. I do not agree that there is a need to suspect parties when putting these questions on the agenda. That's the good reason. But I'm surprised that every time the representative of the Right wants to discuss these proposals, he finds some number or other that puts the welfare state in the worst possible light. It is quite clear that the reason why the percentage of young people has increased is the winding-up of the system of temporary unpaid pay. That arrangement was all the parties against it, and that was a very good reason for it. The reason was that we saw that more clarification in Nav did not make people healthier or give them more opportunity to get work. They walked in years after years within Nav, instead of getting a lasting security within the disability system, and we had a disability that didn't stimulate enough people to get into work. Therefore, we terminated the temporary non-entry fee scheme. The numbers that are interesting to compare are the numbers that we had on young people in 2003 and the numbers that we have today. Yes, there's been an increase, but from 1.2 pst. to 1.3 pst. It's serious, but it's not as big an increase as the opposition here on any occasion tries to make. What we've done with the new disability benefit, I think, is very important. It means that if you choose to work, you will not lose your inadequacy. That's how it is today. Many who are sick think: Should I take the chance to work when I lose my disability? What if I get sicker in five years? The new disability benefit makes it much easier to combine work and social security. You get truncated, but you don't lose the right. I believe that bringing forward these figures, which are not comparable, to put welfare systems in the lowest possible light, is no reason. The proportion of young workers has increased from 1.2 to 1.3 pst. There are many of these people who want a job, who should have had an action that worked better at an earlier time, and who should have had more psychological help in high school. We do a lot to limit the dropout in high school. We have extended the Youth Guarantee to target young people with disabilities, and we see that the proportion of disabled people is falling. So we're on the right track. I believe it is important to follow up on young people who fall out of work, but there is no need to blackmail the situation as the opposition does.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2845	I just want to get a little more clarity in one thing from the Council of State. In the last Wednesday Question Time, we had a round with the Council of State where she said she wanted more action places. I am also pleased to note that the National Labour Party meeting has decided to have more places of action, and then I register with amazement and despair that in the years we have had the Red-Green Government, we have reduced the total number of places of action every year. So my simple question to the Council of State is, what can we expect in the future? How many new places of action are the Workers' Party and the Council of State want to provide to help more people get back to work? Or is it still like this that you want to keep the total number of places at today's level and just keep redistributing spaces within that frame?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2850	In times where unemployment is low, there is a less need for action places targeting the ordinary unemployed. However, there is a need, especially today, for action places for people with disabilities. As a result, there has been a distortion in recent years, from regular action places to action places related to people with disabilities. An increase in the number of action areas has also been proposed in the draft revised budget currently under consideration in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2855	I am fully aware of the rhetoric and practice that has been used. When there has been a high level of unemployment, there has been an increase in the number of sites for action, and then the number of sites for action has been re-allocated within the framework of the total number of sites for action. My question is really very simple: can we expect in the years to come that the total number of action places will increase, and what level does the Council of State think it is right to lie on? Does not the Council also see that it may make sense — even in periods of low unemployment — to increase the number of action places to qualify more people for work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2860	What is the level of the individual action area, we report on each budget alone. In the last budgetary negotiations, we have increased the number of action places for those with reduced working capacity. It's important. But we're also working on improving the quality of the response sites that we have. For people with disabilities in particular, it is important that there is good quality in the areas of action allocated to them. This is why we have recently increased the number of places of action for people with disabilities, but we are also very active in improving the quality of the response sites so that it is possible for people to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2865	I look forward to the Workers' Party coming into opposition and will ask questions that make the welfare state appear in the best possible light from opposition life. I also disagree with the presentation by the Council of State of the figures, because the increase in the proportion and number of young people is not due to a change from temporary disability, which then goes into redundancy payments, which is due to a real increase. What is possible is that the increase has some demographic explanations, for example, but it is not a technical change that is responsible for this. This is a real increase, and I do not agree that an increase from 1.2 to 1.3 pst. is a little. That's a lot. But what I want to ask you is whether these payroll attempts are successful, whether you want to consider making them permanent and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2872	That's what the government wants. If the paychecks are successful, we will, of course, make them permanent. What we have seen in some other countries, among others. Denmark is that they have had very large wage subsidies and that it has not helped to bring so many more new ones into the labour market, but that it has, on the contrary, contributed to the financing of some existing jobs and contributed to the granting of government subsidies to jobs which, in reality, employers should pay for themselves. That's why I think wage subsidies are important, and that it works well, but we have to follow this system very carefully to prevent abuse of it, and we have to make sure that it contributes to the fact that more people actually get into the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2877	Many miscarriages are caused by a disability, whether they are congenital or the result of a disease or injury. When the government put forward its strategy to get disabled people into work, we could read in figures from the SSB – which was also quoted in this strategy – that approx. 78 000 people with disabilities were out of work and wanted to come in. The last updated number I saw from the SSB was 84,000. So the number has increased since the government launched its action plan, and yet the Council of State says that the government's employer policy meets the needs of young people too. Too many would have been a sign that you might have been a little wrong, or not taken hard enough in the original plan, but the government doesn't seem to have evened it. What I want to ask is whether the Council of State believes that, in the light of both this matter and the ratification of the Convention and the job strategy, it is done enough to facilitate disabled people in the labour market, or what will she do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2884	The job strategy was presented not long ago, and in the evaluation of the IA agreement that was presented yesterday, the researchers just said that it was not possible to see the effects of the job strategy right now. These measures must have been effective for some time. I have been talking to many employers and employers' organisations lately, and they are asking me not to come up with a lot of new measures, because there are a lot of measures that are already part of this job strategy, and what is important is to make employers better acquainted with existing measures. I feel that there is an increasing interest among employers in contributing more to bringing disabled people into working life, and this will of course be a very central part when we start negotiating a new IA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2890	In terms of redundancy payments, it's limited to four years, and we've seen and heard that many will reach the ceiling in four years maybe even next year. This may mean more debauchery and more social strife, and it will also affect young people. My question to the Council of State is whether a job is going on, what work, and how are you going to be able to do something so that you don't end up in a situation where, because of this four-year rule, we get more disabled and more on social welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2895	This period can be extended a few months if there is a need for it, but I want to be very careful to say that these automatically come over to disability. Because what we saw earlier was that people went on other types of social security schemes for many, many years, and for them a permanent disability benefit has been good, because it's a lasting income insurance, and with a new disability benefit it's easier for them to combine disability benefits and pensions. We are following this development closely. There's no reason to say that this should represent a very big threat in the form of a lot more unqualified, but the Working and Welfare Act is now going through all these issues. That is the point of redundancy payments, that there must be several years in which the ability to work is determined. This is a much better plan than it was before, with those who went on temporary benefits for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2900	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2905	It has been interesting to listen to the debate on this matter, but it is clear that the government is not really concerned. It is a pity that they have not looked into any of the proposals that are being made in this matter, because I understand that the government parties will not support any of our proposals. They will not support a pilot project aimed at giving motivated young people a way back to work. They will not support the investigation of more use of work for social security for young people who are falling out of work. They will not support the proposal to prioritise young people more strongly in Nav. They will not support a proposal to ask for a strengthening of the health provision for young people with mental health problems. And I could still do that. I note that the proposals come from the wrong side, and that therefore the government will not take into account whether they are actually good and relevant proposals. The reason why the Right, along with our good friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left, has promoted this proposal is that we see that today's system does not always work as it should. It's at least raised beyond doubt that the system can get better; we know that. Let me do some examples. A young illiterate lady wrote in the Evening Post in February 2012: ‘Many of us could probably work full-time or part-time during working age, only we received relevant support for a few crucial years first.’ The father of a high-functioning autistic boy could tell the NRK in November 2012 that he was not offered help or organisation. He was offered disability benefits. Father and son ended up creating their own jobs. And finally, a young girl who said to Today's Business in March 2012: “Someone doesn’t help you until you’ve been hacked from suicide.” Let me stress that I don't owe Nav here. Nav employees often do a brilliant job; it is said too rarely. But often they work under difficult or even completely impossible conditions. It's the system and not the single employee that's the problem. That's why we have to constantly work on improving the system, constantly working on giving people a new chance or at least one chance, which is what many people need -- just that. It is our duty, both as elected representatives of the people and as human beings. And let me say right away: I'm not out to talk the welfare state down. I'm for the welfare state. I also believe that we have many good measures in Norway, but there must be no sleeping cushion to avoid addressing relevant issues and trying to do something when there are deficiencies in the system. It's not our job in this room to be the system's defenders – at least not just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2930	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2944	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2953	The case concerns 13 proposals from the Christian People's Party on measures for people with disabilities. These are important and demanding themes. Government parties are in favour of the non-adopted proposals, while different minorities take up 13 proposals. The proposals deal mainly with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Finance. I will briefly review all the proposals. Proposal No. 1: To strengthen the counselling service for future parents who are told in the context of ultrasound testing that the child has a disability. At that point, there is real consensus in the committee. Proposal No. 2: To ensure that all children’s wards in hospitals have professionals who have a counselling function for parents who are waiting or have children with disabilities. The Health Directorate has provided guidance to assist relatives and the specialist health service has important tasks related to parental and related training and community care staff in such situations. In proposal No 3 the government is asked to evaluate the scheme individually and to strengthen it so that the intentions are realized. Responsibility for individual levels has been clarified in new health and care laws. The system has been established by regulations, and the Health Directorate is working on the preparation of the supervisor in terms of individual levels. Proposal No. 4: To ask the government to present legislative proposals to ensure the right to user-driven personal assistant. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has omitted a hearing note with a reply deadline of 1 August this year. The entire Committee stresses that the BPA scheme is such that it is for the user to decide how and what tasks the personal assistant should have. What is now the topic of debate is who should be involved in the user-driven personal assistant scheme, which is a good scheme, but there is a need to clarify who should be included under it. Proposal No. 5 refers to the right to individually adapted school leisure services throughout school for children with disabilities. It is an important part of the ordinary budgetary process and must be taken into account in that context. Proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 8 relate to the improvement of pay for care, i.e.: the pay of municipal care, at increased rates, the right to holiday pay for people with care pay, and the pay of care for up to three months after the death of disabled children. Proposal No. 9 applies to the right to care when the health status of the child makes it impossible for parents to work — even when the parents have not earned rights to do so — and the level of care should be set at 4.5 G per year. This is a major extension of the entitlement to care allowance compared to the current system. Proposal No. 11 concerns issues to ask the government to submit a report on how aid, care and pay can be combined into one government scheme. All these proposals, Nos. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 deal with issues that are at the heart of the Message. S. 29 for 2012–2013, tomorrow’s care, or the so-called care notification, which is now dealt with in the Storting Health and Care Committee. The government will develop a policy to help people to be valued and made visible and to increase equality and flexibility. The government also presents a programme for an active and forward-looking related policy in this area. It is divided into a first phase of the programme period, and in a second phase of the programme, where one is asked questions about changes to the financial compensation schemes and the leave provisions. All five proposals, Nos. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 are important parts of the financial compensation schemes for caregivers for people who need help from relatives. I would like to say to the Council of State that for the Central Party it is important that the work on the financial compensation schemes does not go out in time. Both care allowance and municipal care pay must be paid fairly for the efforts made by the dependants. The total informal and largely family-based care includes almost 100,000 annual works, compared with the public care service, which has 130 000 annual works. It is important to increase respect for work done in family-based care. Proposal No. 10 refers to index-based basic benefit. This is now an index-based index based on the evolution of consumer prices. Proposal No. 12 concerns the statutory obligation for all municipalities to provide a permanent coordinator. It is ensured through county intervention today, through specialist health services. The latter applies to private non-profit actors building housing. This is expanded and improved, and we don't see any reason to change it in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e2999	It is very comprehensive proposals for representatives of people with disabilities that are on the table today. I will give tribute to the representatives who take them up. The initial comment made by the Committee makes the complexity visible. The measures embrace a wide range of departments. To be completely honest, we could just add to the other departments – we would be finely able to find things that applied to everyone. It shows that this is not an area that can be solved with one thing or one general policy. There has to be ownership at all levels of society in order for it to work. It has to do with making disabled people like most people. We live our lives in the whole of society, not in pieces and divided – at least not in a state or in a administration. This is some of the back carpet when we're going to have these discussions. The rapporteur made a very good presentation of our views on the various points, so I do not go into the details and details. But I'm going to comment briefly on the idea that we choose not to support the proposal. Most of the points are under preparation, whether they are out of consultation, such as the BPA scheme, or are on an individual level, for which the guidelines are being drawn up. It is very difficult for us to conclude that, just before a full case-by-case examination of the various points, we are going to make a final decision that will lock our positions. What you have voted for or voted against may be something that can potentially be used in a debate in an election campaign. But I think it's good to read the comments about the government parties, so you know what to think about the different points. It's not always the vote that gives a completely correct picture. In the context of the BPA point, I think that what is important in this round of hearings – and I think I should point out now – is that if you insert that point in this note, you will in principle introduce the right to one-to-one care in Norway. One has to get a little more substance around this, and that's what you're doing, both in the consultation round and in the work you've been doing behind. We have more – not the same, but similar – debates, the previous one included, where we address all the issues and go deep in terms of the difficulties, the problems, the challenges and the pain of being disabled in Norway. In the previous debate, we concluded that there were many who had difficulty getting into the labour market. If all the debates we have target this being bad, difficult, impossible and hopeless, I can imagine that there are some employers who – if they don't hear our other debates – believe that this is the whole picture. We have to be able to balance this by making it so that disabled people live whole, full lives in a Norwegian society. We may have really been the group that won the Lotto compared to the inhabitants of other parts of the world. So we have to look at the balance between pointing out what is critical, where we haven't come into goal, and making it clear that it's not the end of the world to be disabled. It may be a small contribution to parents who have taken a water test and were told that the child has a disability. Their children, even with a disability, come to live a good and worthy life! That's what we put the frames around. This is not the debate that was supposed to take the edge of the UN Convention, but we ratified it yesterday, and it says that we need to put the human rights perspective, the gender perspective in this area. We have to merge into all the debates we have. This time I chose to do it in this debate, instead of taking the single points.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3018	In a modern, inclusive and rich welfare society, it is important to have arrangements to care for people with disabilities, but also for the care of their dependants. There are good arrangements, and there are schemes that many are well pleased with. Unfortunately, there are also very great opportunities to fall out of these arrangements. Parents of disabled children have stated that the child does not necessarily wear them out, that is what the public authorities and the fight for necessary support, financial security and coordinated services do. Parents and relatives are important caregivers, but in today’s society, adults are dependent on income. It is therefore important to ensure predictable arrangements and secure income for those who care for severely caring family members. I'm going to go over the points – not so very carefully, but I'm going to deal with the points that are proposed, not those that were originally in the proposal. That's a little bit of a change, for example. the level of wages and salaries has been reduced and it is not in today's proposals. Ultrasonic consultancy is very important. It is important that permanent parents of children with disabilities receive good information and information, including close contact with user organisations, at a very early stage. They need to know that they're going to be able to accept a child who's going to have a good life. We believe it is important that this should enter the maternity care as early as possible. That's why the Progress Party has also entered too early ultrasound. Already at 12 weeks, those who take ultrasound should be in public maternity care – not in a private institution where they do not receive information. So the counselling function is important, also the one at the children's ward in the hospitals. Getting a follow-up all the way — having professionals there who can give advice when you have a child with disabilities or when you have a child in a hospital — should be a requirement that could be met. Individual levels are high in most areas today, but unfortunately they are too poorly followed up, and we are calling for an evaluation. Of course, this needs to be followed up with measures that make plans work after the intention. Then there is BPA, on which there is still debate in this Chamber. All parties agree that that system should be improved. It's taken time. The government has now been in office for eight years, and there have also been national decisions in the Workers' Party to secure rights, but it does not seem that there is a willingness to establish a good BPA right-wing regime to meet the needs of users. As long as it's to be done within today's economic framework, I'm afraid that arrangement will be very amputated. In one of the proposals, we go in order for it to be a state system. It's important. Today, many disabled people lose their offers in the municipality when they move. They also lose the right to a user-controlled personal assistant, and they have to apply again. This is also happening within different parts of Oslo. That's not how we mean it can't be. We think we need equal treatment. We can't have frontier barriers within our own country; we'll have enough of the border barriers you have within the North. Equal rights should be enjoyed by all residents of Norway. I think that proposal No. 5 is a very important point. It has also been mentioned in the past that you should look at these schemes as a whole. It says about care pay and care money there, and it's a conceptual confusion. Too many people may find it pointless how these schemes work, so that getting a full assessment, including a seamless income insurance scheme, is important. The right to holiday pay, after-sales pay and care pay are also important, and the level should be raised. This means that it may not necessarily be the hourly rate that should be raised, but the level of the amount of care paid that is measured in relation to the tasks that the relatives do. I expect that to be assessed when there is an overall assessment of these arrangements. This will be a very important matter for those who are now in opposition, when they come into position after the election. It is an important matter to address quickly, so that it can be implemented while in government, and not as the government has now done with all these matters, which are not new proposals. It is proposals that have been repeated, discussions that we have had over and over again, and promises that have not been fulfilled. When you do not comply when you are in government, you have little chance of doing when you are in opposition afterwards. We're going to make sure that the new government does when it becomes a government with a completely different hue than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3044	Does the President expect the representative to make any proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3047	I would like to address the proposals that have been made on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party and the proposals that have been made on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3052	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3055	I would also like to start by thanking the proposers on this matter. Disability is a group that needs our special attention. Someone needs a little bit more to have the same amount. Although the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has now finally entered into force, that does not mean that we can be satisfied. It's a milestone – an important milestone – but there's no rest. On the contrary, the ratification of the Convention should be an inspiration for further action. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a very good point, whether intentional or not, at the beginning of the article, when he says that this matter concerns the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. The reason why I pay it is that the challenges facing disabled people – and perhaps especially disabled children – do not take into account how we organise our society or our departments. It's about real problems for real people. As I said, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs. Here's a lot of good suggestions, so I'm glad to say that the Right supports most of them. We are fully in line with the Christian People's Party in advising parents who are waiting, or who have had, a disabled child. That a new child comes to the world is always a joy anyway. But it's not that easy to know what to expect when you get the message that you've had or are going to have a disabled child. So the right will strengthen this advisory service. But children become adults, and disabled people will have to live good, free life in the same way as everyone else in society. That is why we also support the proposal of the Christian People's Party on user-driven personal assistance, including the choice of the supplier himself. It's a shame this isn't already in place. That the government should have sold this with the rightful attachment for almost eight years is almost unbelievable. But now it is at the hearing, and on 1 August the consultation period is over. With regard to the proposals on care and pay, I would like to stress that the Right supports the intention of these proposals. If you have a sick or very nurturing child, it would just be lacking that you didn't get support from society that allows you to take care of it. But the right considers it important that all the arrangements in question are seen in the context, and that an overall solution is put in place. That is why we want to wait for a comprehensive proposal from the government in this area before changing today's arrangements. This is about predictability. We can well agree – many of us in this room – that predictability is not necessarily what parents with disabled children have been “plagued” the most in recent years. However, the Right supports proposal No. 5 in the vote, which calls for a big message, and therefore does not support the more detailed proposals. We're not all the same, but as a society we're going to have space for everyone, because we're going to get into different packaging. This means that we must have good, decent arrangements for those who have special needs. In the proposal of the Christian People's Party there are many good suggestions that would have given us some progress towards an even better society. From the committee reading and from the debate until now, we cannot help but note that the government parties will vote against all the proposals – perhaps not because they consider all of these proposals to be bad, but because they have been promoted by the wrong representatives. It's emotive. Should there now be some more suggestions that have not been addressed, I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3088	The representative of Sylvi Graham has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3092	During this great period too, the Christian People's Party is promoting a proposal for a representative on measures for people with disabilities, and that is what is needed. Although some improvements have been made since the last time, there are other things that have not improved – yes, that have even gone wrong. I want to focus my article on two of the proposals, namely the right to user-driven personal assistant and care allowance. In the case of care allowance, several debates and questions have brought to your attention the fact that many families with sick children have lost their former care allowance, and the threshold for obtaining care allowance has increased. Last week I received a new enquiry from another family that has been informed that the care allowance is now ending, despite the fact that the child is very ill and has a progressive disease. The Council of State has, in previous replies to care allowance, referred to the fact that she will assess the legislation in the follow-up to the Kaasa Committee. But when is that going to happen? According to a recent report by the Minister for Health, this is to be done through a programme of forward-looking policies on the subject, where new investigations have been announced. This has now also been confirmed by the Minister of Health in reply to written questions from the Christian People's Party last week. Many families have waited in suspense for the last year, hoping and believing that the care allowance scheme should be improved. By the way, reading the Council's response to the Committee on the Christian People's Party's proposal on care allowance is remarkable. Yes, we went far in our proposal. We have now adjusted it somewhat in terms of the level, but our concern is the child's need and the family's existence with demanding conditions of illness. Governments are primarily concerned about how expensive it is and that it ‘may have adverse effects on the objective of work rather than receiving social security’. As if these families would also have healthy children and even worked full! But they cannot do so when the child is ill – they cannot leave the child to strangers. We're only talking about very seriously ill children. The right to personalised assistant will not be dealt with in Stortinget before the choice. For eight years the government has kept this matter waiting. Now a consultation proposal is out, but here it is put up to a completely different order from today's. The Committee points out in the referral – and the rapporteur also said – that it follows from the scheme that the user determines how and to which tasks the personal assistant should be used. Yes, that's the way it is in today's order, but this has been proposed amended. The user shall no longer be allowed to decide for himself what to do. A number of tasks they do today are now to be excluded from the scheme, for example: support contact, relief, which the municipality can define as health care, etc. This fragmentation will leave very few to arrive for an hour of 25, which will be the point of entry. In addition, they can only use the assistant in their own municipality, suggests the government. User-controlled personal assistant shall provide freedom, equality and social participation. The hearing note is about limitations, fragmentation and tightening – sad and surprising. This is not just this representative who has read, believed and understood. I have already had meetings with user organisations that have felt the same way. In addition, some user organisations say that with this proposal from the government — the consultation proposal — only one third of today’s users will be entitled to personal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3113	The proposals contained in the document concern measures for people with disabilities. This applies mainly to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Finance, as has been pointed out here. My Department, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, coordinates work on gender equality and discrimination on different grounds of discrimination, including people with disabilities. The Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination is my responsibility. Everyone shall have equal rights, duties and opportunities in all areas of life, regardless of sex, age, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or function. Persons with disabilities shall be guaranteed full participation and equality. There is also some of the great features of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which came into force yesterday – this shifted from focusing primarily on individual issues of disabled persons, and that the answer to that is health and social services, to looking at gender equality, participation and human rights. With it follows a whole range of obligations also considering how we approach this field, which we're going to follow with excitement, and which we're going to be part of all of them. It's also our responsibility to make sure that we talk about these people as equivalents, as individuals. It's about us striving for equality in all areas. Discrimination is a violation of human rights. Equality is a prerequisite for an inclusive society and for good economic development. So people with disabilities live their entire lives, as the representative Brandvik pointed out instead. They vote, they travel abroad, and they can even be bigots representatives if well organized. It's also the way that many people who are now functionally healthy, at some point in their lives will need help because they get some kind of disability. Providing an inclusive society in this area is also about what can be called informed self-interest: that today is what you need to help, tomorrow it might as well be me. Having an inclusive society in all areas, a society that facilitates equality and participation, is in everyone's interest. It's basically about human rights. For most people, the family is the most important framework for the growth of children. Children and young people with disabilities shall, as far as possible, grow up at home with their families. The public shall provide services such as kindergarten, school, health care and care services and shall treat citizens – whether they are so-called users, patients or relatives – as individuals with individual needs, not as groups. Basic values for us are security, respect, individual considerations, freedom of choice, participation, self-determination and professional quality. These are values set out in the legislation on health and care services. Several representatives have pointed out the need for coordination of services – the need is obvious. Good knowledge is another area in which we need to work strategically and in the long term – and respect and accessibility of the services available out there. Experience from child protection, with which I work more closely in daily life, shows that there is a great need for knowledge and coordination both horizontally and vertically. It can also contribute to better help. There's often a lot of help out there, but it's not always you help out together. When there are too many people to help the same people without knowing about each other, it happens that it's not going to be good help, but that it's going to be messy, and that there's going to be problems for those who were actually going to get help. It is not right, as the representative Graham said, that these proposals that are now being promoted are being voted down because they are being promoted by the wrong representatives. Many proposals promoted here in the Chamber help the government to see areas that need a lift, contribute to discussions within the government and contribute to discussions outside the community, which in turn change attitudes and beliefs. It also happens that we are already working on proposals that are being promoted – as the representative Brandvik pointed out. Of course, we also need internal coordination – including towards budgetary processes. It's legitimate for a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3139	In this case, a proposal has been put forward, we have discussed, and we have received a response from the Council of State on the Kaasa Committee's investigation which came in 2011. It is said in the Council's response to us in the Committee that we cannot get any comments on it now, because an active and forward-looking policy programme is to be presented – which should not least contribute to the appreciation and visibility of the people concerned, and which increases equality, which we have just talked about. That programme is being produced as if it were going to happen in stages. In the first phase, attention shall be paid to measures supporting relatives, and in the second phase, there shall be changes to the financial compensation schemes. I want to ask the Council of State, when are those stages? When is this coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3148	This programme has been launched by the Ministry of Health and Health, and in order to get the details of when this will be done, I suggest that you ask the question directly to them, and you can get a more detailed answer. However, it is true, as the representative points out, that there are two phases in which, in the first phase of the related programme, attention should be paid to actions that support relatives and strengthen the interaction between services. The next phase will address issues relating to the changes in the financial compensation schemes and the permit provisions. This is a cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In order to get detailed answers to the time aspects, I will refer to the departments concerned. If necessary, we can reply on behalf of them in a written enquiry later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3157	The President will allow the representative, Sylvi Graham, to have a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3160	Then it is duly stated in the log that we are impatient, that we have called for this work, and that we have been promised an answer if we only send a written question. We'll do that. I have a similar question about BPA. We know that the round of consultations on BPA lasts until 1 August, and we also know that the Stortinget asked the government to come back quickly with a plan. Then the question is completely similar: When can we wait for the Storting to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3167	Then the answer is: as soon as possible. It is clear that when you go to a hearing, it is just to hear what the hearing bodies think. If we're going to take their views seriously, we need to have a proper process when we get the recordings. It will depend on how many opinions come, how important they are, and whether they differ greatly from the proposals sent out at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3172	Governments agreed that this with coordinated services was a problem. That's exactly where many people are struggling. They are not identified in the different schemes and the services are not compatible. What will the Council of State do to improve that situation? Will the Council of State ensure that there will be a coordinator for all families with disabled children, in all municipalities, so that this changes and they will not continue to labor as much as they have now? So a question about BPA. As I was inside, there is a municipal system that makes it necessary to apply in each municipality, and that people can actually lose the right to BPA only by moving across the municipal border. When it comes to other rights in society, you have them no matter where you live. Doesn't the Council of State also see that as a problem? Will the Council of State look at the possibility of setting up a State scheme for BPA?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3183	It is true that there are variations in the offer that people have, depending on where you live and what municipality you live in. It's a theme that's still up for debate. It is beneficial, and it is a disadvantage. The discussion about how much is going to be left to the state, and how much is going to be left to the municipalities, I think I'm going to go – at least as long as I'm politically active. With regard to the question of BPA, this case is on the hearing, so I will not comment on it until we have the opportunity to go through the answers to the hearing. We're very happy that we're now a little bit further on that matter, regardless of the SV side, which I represent. With regard to the coordination of services, municipalities today have a statutory obligation to provide a coordinator to patients and users who have long-standing needs for services and who need to coordinate them. If there's a need beyond that, we need to discuss what we can possibly do to facilitate. But it's obvious that we need to coordinate our services better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3192	It's the way we've ratified the convention, and it's very pleasing. The Council of State made a good contribution on equality, integration and rights. As we read the Convention and have dealt with it, including in the Committee, it concerns full participation in all contexts and in all areas of society, and that is important. With regard to the disabled people and the hearing that the government has now held, which is the deadline for consultation on 1 August, I will take an example from my own municipality. I live in one municipality, and the cinema – or most of the offers that go on, for example. leisure time - is in another municipality. So you should not be able to take the user-controlled personal assistant you may have been entitled to in your own municipality to another municipality. Does the Council of State feel that this is really good participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3202	I think I knew the hint of a leading question at the other end here. Now this case is being consulted, so I do not feel that it is right for me to comment on specific aspects of it until we have received the answers to the hearing, and then we get to take it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3209	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3214	I don't expect to extend the debate a lot, but when BPA and questions come up, I'm as a representative perhaps in a slightly more open position than a government council would be. I will therefore try to interpret what is on the table, which is in the letter of consultation. First of all, this is about defining who is triggering a right to BPA. The most important thing about what is out of consultation now is that the obligation to offer BPA does not change at all with all the regulations and associated glory – if we can describe it that way. This means that the possibilities of taking an assistant over a municipal border do not change. In this document, there are no amendments that say anything about limiting its use, but it sets a frame around who should automatically trigger a right. Today it is the case that the municipalities have an obligation to offer it, but as a resident of a municipality I have no right to do so. There's a balance between these two things, and it's set some frames around. I assume that the background for having received a debate on whether or not to allow us to cross municipal borders is the part that goes on with the right to receive the necessary health care. Because in all our legislation – including that underpinning the BPA system – it's like in the municipality you live in, that you trigger a right to necessary health care. That means that if I were to be bold enough to travel to my parents in North Norway, I have a right to health care in that municipality when I'm there – but that would be the health care. If I have the BPA scheme, I have the right to take it with me, but not necessarily to have home care in another municipality – if that would be the need, if it is not part of the BPA scheme. These things I think we're going to get back to in other forms and settings, and in a little bit more neat forms, but it's important that we take it further that the change is not about the obligation to deliver BPA. It is not modified by the existing proposal, but it is a limitation of who automatically triggers a right – two very different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3225	It's late tonight, and we're about to end, but I have to answer the previous representative. It is true that the obligation of BPA does not change and that what is out of the interview is who should be entitled to user-led personal assistant. At the same time, it is a reality that for those who will be entitled to a personal assistant, there will be a fragmented system in which some tasks for which they can today choose to use their personal assistant are not to be done for those who receive this right. That's how this representative sees it. This is what several user organisations have perceived. It is also right that this is regulated by health and care law, and it should not actually be. This should be regulated in other laws, perhaps under the present state council, because disabled people are not ill. They need some help in everyday life as compensation for functions that they may not master. Let me do an example. As this is regulated by health and care legislation, for example: taking drugs could be a problem. When health is kept out, it may be like Uloba and others perceive it, that the personal assistant should not be able to help you take the tablet, even if you would be fully up-to-date on your own if you, for example, took it. had had arms to it – let's say this is a disabled person without the ability to touch his arms. This is going to be wrong. It is not possible to keep those entitled to personal assistance outside such health and care services. As we've seen it, you're going to get down to an hour that makes a lot of people with disabilities not get this right because you're fragmenting different problems and pulling them out. It's just reading the hearing memo. I've read it up to several times. That's how I've understood it. If that's wrong – let's hope so – I would say that it's really pretty badly written from the government's hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3236	It concerns the BPA scheme – user-led personal assistant – and I would like to refer to it as an overall committee has said about it. It is true that this has been sent to the hearing and the deadline for the hearing is 1 August. An overall committee has said: ‘The Committee will point out that the user-driven scheme follows the user’s decision as to how and to which tasks the personal assistance will be used.’ That principle is at least already clarified here, so at that point there should be no doubt as to what an overall committee wants, and I believe that it is leading the government's further consideration of the matter. However, what is demanding here, and what I was about, is who is to be included in the scheme. I have been involved in the matter for many years, from the very beginning of the Uloba cooperative organisation in the early 1990s, and what is the whole business idea – to use that expression – is that it is a user-driven personal assistant. So it's the one who's disabled, who's supposed to be in charge of his assistant, so that he or she can live as normal a life as possible. What is demanding is the extent to which it is necessary to facilitate the management of the assistant by related persons, i.e. in the case of the person concerned, and who is disabled, the ability to direct his/her assistant. That's where we're in the middle of demanding demarcation questions. I would appeal to the organisations involved in this topic, to participate in the debate on how to limit it. For the better one, and the clearer one is in that area, the more reasonable and easier it is – in my opinion – to come up with good arrangements in the ongoing process. If you don't have good arrangements, there's uncertainty and uncertainty, not least in the municipalities that are ultimately responsible for these people if something doesn't work. In this area, therefore, organisations have a responsibility to define it. When it comes to the question of what personal assistants should do, it is clarified in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3250	Then there's case no. 17th end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3256	We would then be ready to go to voting in case no. 2–17 on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3266	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the abolition of the Property Tax Act in the context of the State budget for 2014, including proposals for a temporary compensation scheme for the municipal sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3294	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, which reads: «The government is asked to submit proposals to amend Section 28 of the Property Tax Act to allow municipalities to lay down general rules on depreciation or full exemption from property tax on grounds of special social considerations.» The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3315	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arve Kambe on behalf of Right proposal No. 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the introduction of a right to a ten-year inheritance tax write-off in case of a generation change in family-owned enterprises. If the holding is wound up within a 10-year period, an inheritance tax reduced by one tenth for each year shall be payable.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3343	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Right, which reads: ‘Document 8:74 S [[2012-2013]] The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3364	During the debate, Mr Kambe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of car and fuel taxes and to propose changes to the State budget for 2014. The aim of the review shall be to ensure compliance with the Storting’s objective that the average emissions from new passenger cars by 2020 shall not exceed an average of 85 g CO2/km.’;» The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has indicated their support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document 8:77 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3394	During the debate, Mr Svendsen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a change in today’s taxes on shower, juice, confectionery and chocolate, so that sugar-free products are not affected by charges intended to reduce sugar consumption. The sugar content shall be taken into account for the fees and the tax changes incorporated into the State budget for 2014.’» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document 8:86 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3419	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is proposal No. 1, by Arve Kambe on behalf of Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up and propose an action plan to combat smuggling and illegal immigration without delay. Such an action plan should include, inter alia, the following: 1. Purchase and repair of equipment for the penetration of trailers and containers with a view to achieving a nationwide control system. 2nd@item: inlistbox Install camera surveillance with number recognition at all border crossings. The data storage time of such information is assumed to be extended up to one week. 3rd@item: inlistbox The customs tariff must be granted full access to the Visa Information System control equipment [[SIS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3460	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:94 S [[2012-2013]] The Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats has indicated their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3481	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposal No. 2, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposal No. 3 and 4, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to introduce free municipal taxpayers.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3510	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to restore parts of the corporate tax to the municipalities where the values are created.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3528	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary proposals to introduce needs-driven state funding for basic welfare services in municipalities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit the necessary proposals leading to the introduction of an objectively differentiated population grant.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3555	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads: ‘The government asks the government to try as far as possible to avoid negative tax incentives when negotiating future tax agreements’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e3614	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to facilitate Nordic harmonisation in the further implementation of new capital requirements and housing loan weights.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4207	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4217	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4225	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Progress Party There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with an evaluation of the impact of the Working Environment Act § 14-3 on the right of priority for part-time employees and the consequences by introducing a rule on the statutory right to full-time.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4251	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a right to require a fixed position corresponding to real working time, with an estimated period of more than 12 months.’ The left has indicated that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4493	There will be a vote over I, New Section 18-10. The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4508	It is so votered over I, New § 14-4 a, New § 14-4 b and § 17. Here the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4522	It's going to be over the rest of I, II even VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4532	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4542	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4765	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4775	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4783	During the debate, the representative Robert Eriksson has presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, as appropriate, to instruct the State of Labour and Welfare to carry out close follow-up and, in particular, focus, as well as to draw up a plan of activities for the unemployed over 64 years of age who are not entitled to a daily allowance and are unable to withdraw early retirement.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes which entail the reintroduction of the special rules applicable to persons aged 64 or more.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes so that you cannot combine pensions and daily allowances when the individual cancels the job and receives a pension at the same time.’ These proposals and recommendations from the Committee will be replaced by an alternative. The Committee had recommended that: Document 8:44 S [[2012-2013]] The voting boards showed that 72 representatives were in favour of the Committee's recommendation and 25 representatives were in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (Parliament adopted the resolution)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4814	President! I would vote for the setting, but I printed it incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4819	The result is that 73 representatives voted for the Committee's recommendation and 24 for the proposals of the Progress Party. The recommendation of the Committee has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4829	During the debate, the representative Robert Eriksson presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to restore the annual social security balance to treatment in the Storting as it was before 2011.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to remove the sub-regulation of 0,75 pst. of current pensions.» These proposals and recommendations from the Committee will be replaced by an alternative. The Committee had recommended that document 8:47 S [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (Parliament adopted the resolution)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4861	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-7, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 8-10, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 11 and 12, from Torbjørn Røe Isaacen on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 8 and 10 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government is asking for the necessary proposals to ensure that no less than 40 years are offered permanent disability unless it is clear that they will never be able to participate in the labour market. Instead, a coherent support and patient effort shall be ensured for young people, as well as a guarantee of income that makes it possible to live a worthwhile life while following up.» Proposal No. 10 reads: ‘The budget requires the Government to submit an obliging escalating plan for 2014 to ensure 8 000 more action places so that more people can be given the opportunity to qualify for normal working life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4895	There will be a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In addition to the current fixed-term and fixed-term wage subsidies, the government is asked to introduce a probationary system with a new type of wage subsidies — ‘flexible wage subsidies’. This grant must be characterised by flexible practice after Nav has first taken a decision to grant. This must mean that Nav, the person who has been awarded the wage subsidy, and the employer in cooperation can determine the need and vary the amount of the wage subsidy over different periods according to the employee’s needs.» The left has indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4915	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 11 and 12, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the State budget for 2014, to submit proposals for strengthening the functional assistance scheme, the organisation of grants and other schemes contributing to raising the participation of young people with disabilities.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set out guidelines on the employment and welfare situation which require that young people under the age of 30 be given greater priority in Nav and the response apparatus than at present.’ The Progress Party has warned that they are now supporting the proposals in a subsidiary way. The left has notice that they will also support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e4940	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-7, from the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking in the context of the State budget for 2014 to strengthen the ‘Snow in the Door’ project, so that more young people who visit the Social Office/Nav are given access to work training rather than inaction.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to strengthen the interaction between public, private and NPISHs in the context of the State budget for 2014, such as: Unikum, RIBO, and Friskgården so that more young people with mental disorders can be guaranteed a targeted rehabilitation offer and close follow-up with the aim of enabling them to return to work, in whole or in part.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a pilot project to help young people return to normal work. The project shall aim at disabled persons under 30 years of age who are motivated to return to work in full or in part.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a system of work for social security for young people who are at risk of permanently falling out of work.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case of strengthening the offer to young people with mental problems.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the amendment to the Regulation on the vocational correction of the common subjects in vocational education and training programmes is followed up by the schools and the school owners so that the pupils are given more vocational education in the common subjects.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of an action plan on how voluntary, non-profit and private organisations and businesses can be better included in work to prevent young people from falling permanently away from the labour market.’ The left has notification that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e5006	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1–6, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 7-12, from Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 13, from Sylvi Graham on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 13, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide individualised school leisure services throughout the education process for children with disabilities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e5035	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 7-12, from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the rates of municipal welfare pay increase.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals to grant holiday pay to beneficiaries of care allowances.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to grant entitlement to care allowance for up to 3 months after the death of a disabled child and the right to a day’s allowance.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals for entitlement to care allowance when the health status of the child makes it impossible for parents to work, even when parents do not have acquired rights to do so.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to index the basic benefit in order to follow general wage and price developments.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to legislate for all municipalities to offer a permanent coordinator for each family with disabled children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e5078	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1–6, from the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the advisory service for permanent parents who, in the context of ultrasonic testing, are told that they are expecting disabled children.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children’s wards in hospitals have professionals who have an advisory function for families who are waiting or have children with disabilities.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the government to evaluate the individual plan and to strengthen it so that the intention of the plan is realised.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present legislative proposals to ensure the right to user-driven personal assistance for people in need of practical and personal assistance. The proposal must also ensure that users are entitled to choose the employer’s model.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a big message on how to bring aid, care and pay together into a state scheme to ensure the simplest and best possible regulatory framework, based on the NOO 2011:7 Kaasa Committee: Whenever it is true to say about care for relatives. From invisible to valued and included.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks that the law on the compensation of value added tax in municipalities should apply to housing companies and communities cooperating with municipalities for the operation of health and care services. If necessary, request that proposals be submitted to the Storting to ensure this.’» The left has notification that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-04.ana.ud1325e5142	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
