ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-21.ana.ud179e22	The representatives of Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Geir S. Tskedal, Svein Roald Hansen and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-21.ana.ud179e42	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the introduction of two babysittings this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-21.ana.ud179e47	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-21.ana.ud179e59	For almost 20 years, the EEA Agreement has benefited Norway greatly from participating in the internal market in Europe. At the meeting of the EEA Council in Brussels two days ago, I made four observations in the discussions with the European Union: Cooperation between Norway and the EU is valued. The EEA Agreement is important for both parties. The agreement has been robust. There is a willingness on both sides to further develop cooperation. Development of cooperation is also a continuous necessity. It was clear from the outset that the EEA would be constantly evolving. However, no one could be prepared for how much would change in the relationship between the EEA/EFTA countries and the EU. Because the EU has had many more Member States, EEA memory is weaker. Because the EU cooperates more across sectors, it is often more difficult to identify what is inside and what is outside the EEA. The EU is also now delegating more powers to independent agencies. There is one development that was not foreseen at the time of the establishment of the EEA Agreement with a two-pillar structure. For Norway, participation in such agencies or supervision is often very important, but participation may raise fundamental questions regarding the Constitutional Framework for the Transfer of Competences to International Bodies. We have also seen that the economic crisis has led to speeding up EU cooperation, particularly in the economic sphere. The Eurogroup is increasingly the focus of the EU, and policy-making is shifting towards arenas where Norway has few or no formal influence channels. These trends make greater demands on us as a non-member. Norway relies on an EU understanding of the need for flexibility and adaptation to our national needs. This applies, for example: on the issue of Norwegian participation in EU financial supervision, because it is very important for Norwegian financial institutions and for their customers that Norway can participate in the coordination of European financial markets. In other heavy areas too for Norway, e.g. in the field of energy and telecommunications, it is important to have an impact on solutions adapted to Norwegian needs. When, in important areas, we ask the EU to understand flexible solutions adapted to heavy Norwegian interests, it is all the more important that we do not otherwise create a ground of doubt about our willingness to follow the basic principles and obligations of the EEA Agreement. Norway's relationship with the EU is democratically anchored in the Stortinget. This lashing has become stronger through changing bulk numbers. The previous government shall be in favour of providing a solid knowledge base through the European investigation and a broad political basis through the subsequent notification of enlargement. The Stoltenberg government pursued a policy that continuously strengthened Norway’s integration into Europe. It thus contributed to deepening the national consensus in European policy. Norway is part of a long-term, deep integration process in Europe — socially, economically and culturally. EU cooperation is at the same time a result of this integration process and a driving force for it. In periods of growth and optimism in Europe, integration has tended to fad more. In times of crisis in Europe, integration has tended to become deeper. No international actor affects Norway more than the EU. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe, but so does more and more of Norwegian domestic policy. That is why our cooperation with the EU is so important to Norwegian interests, and that is why it is so important that we promote our interests clearly, early and actively. What are our interests and priorities, will sometimes be political disagreements about. This is a natural result of many EEA and EU issues dealing with domestic policies: for example, when the government wants to compete in the postal market, it is natural that we have a different view of the third EU postal directive than our predecessors had. The government sees the EEA as a platform to promote Norwegian interests. We should not just wait for what comes from the EU, but use the EEA to design better policy solutions for Norway at European level. This is reflected in the fact that the Minister for Transport will take the initiative of the EU Commission in clarifying what EU and EEA/EFTA countries can do to avoid that the cost cuts in international aviation lead to unhealthy competition and the use of undesirable employment conditions in the internal market. We also want to make an active contribution to policy development in the EU, as when the Minister of Knowledge will meet the EU Education Ministers next week to present the Government's plans for open online courses as part of our training effort for teachers. Our foremost national interest in European cooperation lies in energy and climate. The climate challenge is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and the EU is our closest partner in the efforts to reverse dangerous global developments. The petroleum sector is Norway's main industry and a motor in the Norwegian economy. Norway is also the largest oil and gas producer in Europe. Norway is part of the EU internal energy market through the EEA Agreement. As the world’s third largest exporter of gas and the seventh largest exporter of oil, Norway is in a special position in Europe. We supply gas to the EU around 20 pst. of EU gas consumption. It makes us important to the European Union. Our objective is to be a long-term and stable contributor to secure energy supply in Europe. The EU is at the forefront of global energy and climate policies. The government will work closely with the EU towards the UN Climate Change Summit in Paris in 2015 to achieve as ambitious and binding an international climate agreement as possible. The EU is now working towards its ambitious 20-20-20 targets. Strong instruments have been put in place in the EU countries, not least in Germany, which have stimulated the development of renewable energy to a hitherto unknown extent with its ‘Energiewende’. European industry is adapting to more stringent emission and energy efficiency requirements. When negotiating new energy and climate policies, the EU needs to find solutions suitable for 28 different Member States. It is therefore important for the government that we are early out there and affect proposals in line with Norwegian interests. A good opportunity to participate is provided by the EU's work on an energy and climate framework towards 2030. The Commission intends to submit a notification in the new year. Norway will not be committed to EU policy objectives, but we know that the framework and subsequent legislation can have a major impact on Norway. Then we should not wait until legislative proposals come to the table in a few years, we should try to influence policy making now. Let me give you one example: the government agrees with the Commission that today's low CO2 prices hold back the necessary investments in climate-friendly technology and have contributed to the increased use of coal in power generation in Europe. This happens, among other things: at the expense of gas. It's an unfortunate development. As the European Commission points out in its 2050 Energy Roadmap, gas will be an important component of the road towards a low-carbon society in Europe. In the EEA Council, I stated that it is important that EU energy policy is clear, consistent and predictable in order to ensure the ongoing investments in the gas sector that are necessary for the European energy system of the future. The government wants to contribute to the development of renewable energy, both in Norway and in Europe. But when Europe builds up wind and solar energy, secure energy supply is also needed when these sources provide little. Both Norwegian gas and Norwegian hydropower can play well with Europe's renewable energy in the coming years. For Norway, and not least for Europeans, it is good news that there are some initial signs of improvement in the European economy. The euro zone may now be on its way out of its longest period of decline in GDP. Several years of tightening and economic reform have brought public finances to a more sustainable path. Many countries have improved their competitiveness and the foreign economy has been strengthened. At the same time, we see that the real economy in Europe is weak and uneven. The crisis is not over. Everything indicates that the repatriation will be long, slow and fragile. In many euro area countries, there is still a problem of low growth, high debt and alarming high unemployment, not least among young people. Since the spring of 2010, the EU has put in place a number of measures to combat the crisis, with systems for better coordination and monitoring of economic and financial policies. There is political agreement in the EU on further steps, including: the establishment of a banking union. The Bank Union is planned to consist of a joint supervision, common crisis resolution mechanisms and common deposit guarantee scheme in addition to a common banking regulation. The aim of the Banking Union is to have a more centralised governance with financial stability in the euro area. The Council and Parliament of the European Union also have a proposal for a directive requiring Member States to regulate banks in crisis. This Directive shall cover all EU countries and shall be deemed to be EEA-relevant. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the authorities intervene in a timely manner with effective measures. The Directive is expected to be adopted by the Council and Parliament by the end of 2013. For Norway, financial stability and good economic development in the EU are of great importance, and we therefore support measures that can contribute to this. The establishment of a banking union for the euro area will not directly affect the common legislation of the EEA, but may nevertheless have an impact on the functioning of the internal market in financial services. The government will therefore follow developments closely. The proposal on banking union is not relevant to the EEA. It is therefore not appropriate for the EEA/EFTA countries to join. A unanimous collapse has repeatedly expressed its support for the continuation of the Norwegian bank deposit guarantee. The trialogues on this proposal for a directive have now been resumed. The government will follow closely the developments in these negotiations and actively work for the Norwegian deposit guarantee. I am aware that in the negotiations it is discussed to distinguish between deposits at an earlier date and later deposits. It's very important to us that all deposits are treated equally. Furthermore, we strongly argue for a permanent derogation, while commenting on what we now know is being discussed on a transitional period. In order to ensure predictability and a level playing field for Norwegian industry, it is important that new single market legislation is effectively incorporated into the EEA Agreement. A high number of acts which have entered into force in the internal market have not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This is clearly unfortunate, both for Norwegian business and for our relationship with the European Union. At the meeting of the EEA Council, I told the EU side that we are now giving high priority to bringing down legal acts on the Norwegian side. The Government will introduce free competition in postal and parcel services. We want the Post to have more space for action in order to better adapt to increased competition and changing user needs. We want to be part of a European postal services market where the Post can participate fully. Norway has been involved in liberalising the postal market within the EEA by implementing both first and second postal directives. The third EU Postal Directive completes the liberalisation of the postal market by opening up to competition for the transmission of letters of less than 50 grams. We have therefore decided to cancel the reservation for the third EU postal directive. This was communicated to the EU at the meeting of the EEA Council on 19 November. We will continue to provide a good and equivalent postal service across the country, including a single postage. At the meeting of the EEA Council, I also said that the government has decided that the so-called Paediatric Regulation can be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The Paediatric Regulation requires that medicinal products be tested and also authorised for use in children. The government believes that this is positive. The case concerns the jurisdiction of the fines. The EU position is that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, is empowered to penalise undertakings with head offices in an EEA/EFTA country, both in the case of paediatric medicine and in the case of medicinal products in general. The aim is to mirror the EU's own system and ensure a consistent internal market. The ESA’s authority will be an addition to the State Medicines Agency, which will continue to be able to withdraw authorisations and to grant periodic penalty payments and infringement fees. The transfer is within the framework of the Basic Law and the basic principles of the EEA Agreement. The consent of the estate will be obtained under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The conversion of the customs regime for cheese and meat carried out by the previous government in the context of the year’s budget has had a negative impact on our cooperation climate with the EU. These reactions have not least been strong in our closest neighbouring countries, which are important support players for us in other contexts. The current government parties opposed the conversion when it was carried out. We're still going to be. Our aim is to change the customs regime in place, which I also announced during the meeting of the EEA Council. We are obliged by the EEA Agreement not to impose restrictive measures on imports. Norwegian consumers and the Norwegian food industry are also concerned with the reduction of customs barriers. Import protection is important for the profitability of Norwegian agriculture, but it is the government’s view that our agricultural production tolerates competition on quality from other countries. The government will now carry out a thorough review of the case and, on that basis, come back with proposals for concrete actions. The free movement of people is a fundamental prerequisite for the internal market. In the Nordic region, we have a long experience of free movement, and it has served and served us very well. Norway, and not least the districts, has benefited from labour immigration in recent years. In many European countries, including Norway, there are also discussions that welfare systems can be put under pressure from the free movement of people. This is an important debate, in which the European Commission has also started work. The government will come back with an assessment of how social security exports can be limited under the international agreements on which Norway is bound. Employment issues are also an integral and central part of the EEA Agreement. A good working life for all is a primary objective of the government, and we will pursue an active policy to safeguard Norway’s interests in this area. The framework conditions for Norwegian business must be good throughout the country. In this context, I would like to refer to the processes in the EU and the EFTA monitoring body, ESA, on new guidelines for regional aid. The guidelines regulate the system of differentiated employer charges and the scope of district investment aid and have a significant impact on the framework conditions for the rural economy. In a world where Europe's economic position is challenged by other regions, Europe must strengthen its competitiveness. EU negotiations with the United States on a comprehensive trade and investment agreement open up exciting prospects for transatlantic cooperation. The debate on closer cooperation on the legislative side is central. In many areas, these rules apply to the internal market of the EU. Given the importance of the EU and the United States as trading partners for Norway, an agreement will have implications for Norwegian interests. These we're in the process of mapping. The Government will use the consultation arrangements provided for in the EEA Agreement for a more detailed dialogue with the EU on this matter and will be in dialogue with the US authorities. The government is concerned that Norwegian interests are safeguarded and that our competitive situation is ensured. Research and innovation are among the main priorities of the government – at home and in Europe. Cooperation with the EU is important for the government’s objective of building the knowledge society and ensuring the long-term sustainability of research policy. The Government, subject to the approval of the Storting, aims at Norway participating in the EU research and innovation programme Horizon 2020 as part of the development of the European Research Area, ERA. Horizon 2020 needs to be viewed in the light of the economic, political and social situation in Europe and in the context of the EU’s growth and employment strategy, Europe 2020. The aim is to create a knowledge-based, sustainable and inclusive growth. Although Norway is in a unique economic situation, we share several of the long-term challenges. The government’s project to realise the knowledge society, to include vulnerable groups and to ensure Norwegian competitiveness coincides well with EU priorities. The Government wants to strengthen international cooperation in the field of education. Norwegian participation in Erasmus+, the EU programme for education, training, youth and sport, opens doors to many groups. Erasmus+ allows both mobility and various cooperation projects. The Programme also provides access to valuable networks of European partners for Norwegian institutions and actors. There is an important debate in Europe on the basis of human life and opportunities for the future. We see that the crisis affects vulnerable groups like young people, minorities and those who already had the least. We have seen examples of democratic principles and human rights under pressure. It is important that Norway contributes to Europe continuing to be a global home for freedom, tolerance and respect for human rights. The EEA funds are one Norwegian contribution in this context. Through different programmes, we contribute to social development and combat poverty in vulnerable groups. We are currently implementing 147 programmes in 15 countries. In some countries and programmes, the inclusion of minorities and the improvement of the situation of Roma is emphasised. Another important objective is to contribute to a better balance in regional development in the recipient countries. The administrative audit of the national audit of EEA funds concludes that the funds contribute to strengthening contact and cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary countries. I am pleased that the Riksrevision concludes that the effort has become more concentrated and focused. We will use the survey in the ongoing effort to further develop the management of funds. The current five-year period for the two EEA financial instruments and temporary allowances for fish exports expires on 30 April 2014. Negotiations on new financial contributions and allowances for fish exports are expected to begin in a short time. The government’s starting point is that Norway is willing to make continued financial contributions after 30 April 2014. We want to contribute to economic and social cohesion in Europe. A similar positive EU approach to access to the fish market is important for a constructive process in the future. The facility for new financial contributions will help to ensure the further development of our bilateral cooperation with the beneficiary countries. Our influence on content, management and control shall be exercised. The government will come back to Stortinget and explain our starting point in the negotiations when these are specified. In this context, I would also like to mention our negotiations with Croatia, which became a member of the EU on 1 July this year. The negotiations on Croatia's accession to the EEA Agreement have now been concluded. The government believes that a balanced solution has been achieved in terms of our financial contribution and compensation for the loss of trade in fish. The government will present the matter to the Storting through its own proposal. Croatia's fresh EU membership is a milestone for the political development of the Balkans and for the EU's involvement in the region. All Western Balkan countries want EU membership, and the EU continues to play a crucial role in the reform work of the region. However, there are considerable differences between countries in their progress in the integration process. Most prominent is Montenegro, which opened membership negotiations in June 2012. Serbia is expected to start negotiations in December 2013 or January 2014. Countries like Macedonia, Albania and Kosovo still have a way to go, but there is also movement here. Turkey has just resumed its negotiations. Norway has close cooperation with the countries of the region and with the EU in support of national reforms, regional cooperation and European integration. For many decades Europe has had great attraction to people from the rest of the world. They have wanted to share in the prosperity that exists in Europe, but at the same time they have helped to create it. Many have also wanted to live in a part of the world where democracy and legal certainty are fundamental values. A Europe without internal frontiers requires cooperation on external borders. A common external border requires common legislation and a consistent practice. As a Schengen member, Norway shall contribute to the implementation of border controls in accordance with legislation that is both effective and fair. This implies that the principles of legal security that are held high in Europe must also be applied to the treatment of those who wish to enter Europe. Several tragic accidents have recently occurred at Lampedusa and elsewhere in the Mediterranean Sea. European countries must jointly use the means available to avoid such tragedies and Norway must participate in this work. Here, an overall approach is absolutely necessary. The large economic difference between Europe and neighbouring regions in the south means that migration will hardly decrease in the years to come. Many people will have a legitimate need for protection and will seek asylum in Europe. The European countries are bound together in a dense community in this area. It is therefore necessary to find solutions based on cooperation and solidarity. The southern border of Europe towards the Mediterranean is also the southern border of Norway through Schengen. The EU has set up a Task Force to present a comprehensive action plan to the European Council to prevent such tragedies we have seen in the Mediterranean Sea. The government supports this work, and last week we made concrete Norwegian contributions to the EU, which resulted in us being invited to the Task Force meetings. We want to participate in operations through the EU Border Control Agency, FRONTEX, and the Asylum Agency, EASO. We will also intensify cooperation with the EU on work for stability, democracy, human rights and inclusive economic development in North Africa and Sahel and assess participation in the EU Border Monitoring Mission in Libya. Through the EEA funding, we contribute to strengthening asylum management in Greece, and we have offered the Italian authorities to make available a person to assist with the registration of newly arrived asylum seekers. While the EU has challenges in its southern neighbourhood, the current Presidency of Lithuania places great emphasis on the EU's Eastern Partnership. Norway supports this process and hopes that the forthcoming EU Vilnius Summit will help to weave more eastern neighbouring countries closer into European cooperation. The European Council will, for the first time in five years in December, discuss the EU's common defence and security policy. A central theme will be how to strengthen the European defence industry. Norway has close cooperation with the EU in foreign and security policy and shares many common foreign and security policy interests. As regards trade in and production of defence and security materials, this has in practice been excluded from the EU internal market. The EU is now trying to open up the EEA area to a greater degree of competition and non-discrimination in this area through the so-called Defence Directive. This Directive will enter into force in Norway from 1 January next year. A more open defence and security market, both at home and in Europe, will provide opportunities and challenges for Norwegian suppliers and will highlight the importance of our cooperation agreement with the European Defence Agency, the EDA. Let me also mention the EU Civil Crisis Management and Preparedness Coordination Mechanism, which is the EU's main civil disaster response tool and for other societal security and preparedness work. Norway has benefited greatly from participating in the coordination mechanism. Cooperation strengthens Norway's efforts for social security and preparedness, both nationally and internationally. It is therefore important to continue cooperation with the EU on preparedness issues in the coming years. In conclusion, I would like to return to the EEA Agreement and the government's ambition to pursue an active European policy. Where the European Union and the EEA have become so important to the Norwegian authorities, enterprises, households and organisations, the European Union and the EEA should also have a correspondingly large place in our political everyday life. The Government will place great emphasis on contact and dialogue with Stortinget as a prerequisite for an active European policy. This is also important because the European Parliament has gained a strengthened role and because parliamentary cooperation can contribute to an increased understanding of Norwegian positions in the EU. Although the government has a State Council for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, it does not change the responsibility of each specialist Council to follow up and identify matters that require follow-up in its own field. The Trade Union Councils have full implementation responsibilities for individual EU and EEA matters and agreements in their own field of competence. As a result, the entire government will place greater political emphasis on EEA issues. Priority will be given to participating in the political arenas to which our relationship with the EU gives us access, inter alia. informal ministerial meetings in the EU. In 2014, there is an electoral year in the EU. A new European Parliament shall be chosen. A new Commission College shall be appointed, including a new High Representative for EU foreign and security policy. Member States shall also appoint a President of the European Council. The government will seek close cooperation with the Member States and the new EU leadership to promote Norwegian interests and find good solutions to common European challenges. An active European policy is also an open European policy that invites debate and exchange of views. The government will involve stakeholders more systematically and in the past in EEA and EU business. For example, civil society and regional and local authorities have significant knowledge of how EEA legislation works in practice. Close dialogue with stakeholders at national level strengthens our ability to participate in Europe. For the government, European policy is a national teamwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-21.ana.ud179e191	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-21.ana.ud179e257	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
