ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e24	Three permit applications are available: From the representatives Susanne Bratli and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen on leave on 18 and 19 February, both to take part in the election as observers of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at the presidential elections in Armenia from the representative Hilde Magnusson on welfare leave from 18 February to 22 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: for the county of Hordaland: Roald Aga Haug from 19 to 21. February For Telemark County: Odin Adelsten Bohmann for Tuesday 19 February For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bord Langsavold for Tuesday 19 February
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e69	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and from the members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e76	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a good account, where we share most of the analyses. And although it is limited to Afghanistan, I will nevertheless use this opportunity, also in the light of President Karzai's visit to Norway last week, to remind you of the importance of not losing sight of the mission in Afghanistan now. We are present in a wide range of military capabilities that carry out risky missions. We are present politically, civilly and humanitarianly, and we have just signed a strategic cooperation agreement guaranteeing Afghanistan 750 million. kr every year for five years. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that we are living in a break-up period, and precisely in times of great and sometimes rapid change, it is very important to pursue a foreign policy that has a secure anchoring in a set of values with which we meet all countries. Respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression shall form the basis of Norwegian foreign policy. Power displacement makes us need to seek new alliances in addition to those we have, and we need to work differently internationally. But that also means that within the alliances we're part of, we have to be prepared to do more ourselves and deliver more within the alliance framework. One example is the consequences of the displacement of power for NATO. The US’s natural increased attention to the Pacific leads to a slight decrease in attention to Europe — and perhaps in particular to our peaceful part of Europe. But the United States is also saying more and more clearly that the burden-sharing in NATO is not sustainable. The U.S. is now paying about 75 pst. of NATO expenditure, and Europe must begin to take greater responsibility for its own security. We must be prepared to handle more in our own neighbourhoods. Other speakers from the Right will address this and other issues. As Asia grows forward on the world stage, we see that the region is marked by great tensions. The relationship between the world's second largest and third largest economies, China and Japan, is on the verge. This is a conflict with deep historical, cultural and political roots. This is happening at the same time as the relationship between China and the United States today is more demanding than it is for a long time. The behaviour of China in maritime disputes with its neighbours creates a sense of insecurity, which also means that these countries are drawn to the stability and security that lie in a better relationship with and stronger presence from the United States. The dynamics in the region have global ring-effects. Today's situation is really much more tense than I think we're willing to take inwards, and the consequences of an armed conflict between the powers of Asia would be violent and incomprehensible all over the world. Parallel to this is an old conflict, a survival from the darkest corner of the Cold War, still fully visible on the Korean peninsula. North Korea is today the world's most totalitarian country and a continuous uncertainty factor and spoiler in the international community. It is a regime that is exclusively concerned with its own survival and its own gain at the expense of its own population and the world around them. The nuclear testing carried out this week is totally unacceptable and a clear violation of all international rules. The right fully adheres to the clear condemnation of this action by the government. Together with a gradual development of capacity in ballistic missile technology, the North Korean nuclear programme is today one of the strongest destabilising factors in the region and must face an overall unequivocal response from all world countries. Norway must actively play the role we can play in all forums where we are represented, in order to put pressure on North Korea along with our allies. It is a closed country that deliberately violates all the rules and norms of civilised societies. In the important effort to spread weapons of mass destruction and related materials, North Korea's behaviour is very serious. Many of the same assessments also appeal to Iran. It is a deep authoritarian regime without respect for the fundamental human rights of its own people, or for international rules of the game. Once again, the nuclear programme is the most worrying, and I am a little surprised that the Foreign Minister does not address this issue in his presentation, especially since this is an extremely topical situation, where the next month will be very important for the development of the matter. The surrounding world's occupation with Iran takes place along two tracks. Of course, our role is limited in the multilateral political negotiations in the framework of EU3+3, which appears to be due towards the end of this month in Kazakhstan. However, in the parallel process under the IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency, it is of particular importance that Norway, as a current member of the Governing Board, take an active lead in bringing together the board of the organisation in a clear response to Iran's constant withdrawal and lifting of the commitments in the negotiations with the IAEA's control activities, and that the matter be re-opened to the Security Council. We have a great responsibility here. There is reason to be concerned about many of the developments in North Africa two years after the Arab Spring. The many hopes of democracy are still well away. There is reason to remember what many of us said during the great upheavals: We have seen dictators fall, but we still have to see democracy rise. The development of democracies will require our efforts and support for a long time to come. I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for focusing attention on the situation of minorities, including religious minorities, both in the Middle East, North Africa and the rest of the world. In Syria the tragedy continues. The UN now estimates that 70,000 people have been brutally killed in the last two years, and the world community seems to be incapable of ending the atrocities. Several hundred thousand people have fled to the neighbouring countries of Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, and over 1.2 million. human beings are internally displaced. Russia and China bear a great responsibility to block even political solutions in the Security Council. The Committee visited one of the refugee camps for Syrian refugees at the Syrian-Turkish border in November. It made a strong impression to meet people who have lost everything and everyone. The concern is great for the thousands of refugees who do not cross the borders, those who have a place at the borders, and are easy targets for the regime's air attack, and those who suffer from hunger, cold and lack of sanitary conditions. The right is pleased that the Foreign Minister has taken the signals from previous rounds in this Chamber and has gone deeper into the unfortunate developments we see related to democracy, civil society and legal certainty in our neighbourhoods. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and Azerbaijan, all rightly. For my part, I would also have added to Georgia, where a new government is now showing alarming trends after a initially peaceful takeover of parliamentary governance. Nevertheless, the Right believes that the Foreign Minister could have been even clearer in his choice of words. For the Ukraine, for example: not in such a way that the imprisonment of Julia Timoshenko and a number of other opposition politicians ‘gives the impression of’ selective prosecution or that the parliamentary elections are ‘seen’ as a step backwards for the country’s democratic development. The prosecution is selective, and the parliamentary elections were a democratic retreat. Knowledge of these areas and regions needs to be operationalised and put to work through practical policies. What is Norway’s overall strategy for meeting this development in our neighbourhoods? How do we work as partners with the EU and the other Nordic countries? And not least, how do we reconcile our own policies in different sectors, such as when Norway is leading the EU in opening up free trade and market access in a situation where coordination is necessary, and developments in countries might have to provide for a different conclusion or a different pace. Norway’s relationship with China shows an initial positive development in the dialogue. These are good signals. The right-hand side assumes that two border posts are fixed. Firstly, Norway cannot and shall not complain about the award of the Nobel Peace Prize. It is not Norwegian authorities but an independent committee that awards the prize. Secondly, the values underlying Norwegian foreign policy, inter alia: the fundamental universal human rights are in constant contact with all countries, and we expect Norway to address violations of human rights in China as in all other countries. Developments in Burma/Myanmar have been moving at an impressive pace lately, pointing in the right direction. There is every reason to recognise the change that has occurred as positive. But there's also every reason to be careful. The country continues to be marked by ethnic and regional tensions. The country has continued to have political prisoners, even though the most famous, Aung San Suu Kyi, is now released and taking part in the political processes. The country is corrupt and is in the fifth last place on the Transparency International list. As Suu Kyi said when the committee met her last June: remember, it is the same generals who rule. They've just taken off the uniforms and put on civilian clothes. It remains to be seen whether the mindset has changed. In view of this, the Right believes that it is a wrong signal to give that you are now cancelling all the debts that Burma/Myanmar has to Norway. That's 3 billion. kr. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not mention it in one word in his other long account of the situation in the country. Instead, the government should, in our opinion, have given a signal that in the long term it wishes to clear demands for progress in political processes and progress in the development of democracy, the rule of law and civil society in order to achieve such indebtedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e102	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad, thorough and Prospective presentation, a good basis for this debate. The aim of foreign policy is to protect and promote Norwegian interests, safeguard our security and secure fundamental values in our society. But foreign policy must also shoulder our responsibility for the world around us. We have to deliver to peace and stability, even beyond our neighbourhoods. We need to deliver on our development in poor countries and in the fight against common challenges: terrorism, climate change and international crime. The terrorist attack in In Amenas is a brutal reminder that our defence lines in today's geopolitical image do not just go at their own borders, perhaps not even at their own borders. The presence and Norwegian involvement of Norwegian business in foreign businesses can have direct consequences for how we should take care of our interests. An increasingly globalised Norwegian business community demands a strengthening of what the Minister of Foreign Affairs called economic diplomacy. Our diplomatic presence must address these needs. The Arab Spring raised the hope that oppressive regimes would be replaced by freedom and popular rule. The challenges have turned out to be great. In Egypt many feel that the revolution has been stolen, despite democratic elections. Developments are disturbing also in Libya and now in Tunis. The civil war in Syria seems endless. It is the responsibility of the Security Council to end the civil war and the humanitarian suffering. Norway has recognised the opposition forces of the national coalition as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people. But I can't help feeling deeply concerned about how the opposition will deal with the situation when the Assad regime is over. Will the ability to meet the demands of the international community to seek reconciliation and a democratic basis for a transitional regime against a democratic Syria? Or will there still be settlement between the two sides of the civil war? What we experience after such upheavals is that the opposition is not necessarily synonymous with democracy. The situation in Mali is alarming. We support the government's willingness to assess a contribution to the UN force planned. Equally important is the continuation of our development exposure in the country, and the contribution of 30 million. kr into the United Nations fund for Mali. It is important that the peacekeeping operation in Mali has a strong African anchor. A high profiled and perhaps long-standing Western military engagement may work against its purpose, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Creating ground for the enemy image Al Qaida is trying to build up will be a bad contribution to peaceful development. Of course, it is too early to establish a status after ISAF's 10-year operation in Afghanistan. But I want to do a reflection on what I would call the military force's restrictions after Afghanistan, and not least after the US war in Iraq. The Iraq war started on a false basis. Afghanistan was a necessity. Military use of power will be necessary, as now in Mali. But the point in this context is that we must also have with us the limitation of military power. Military power can be used to remove a problem, but not to build the new one. That experience must be heavy on the international community, facing new challenges, as it is now in Mali. The second reflection is that the use of military power is demanding. Even when the world's greatest and strongest powers are combined, the effort is faster on the forces than you might think. The conflict between Israel and Palestine lives on, frighteningly locked up. Here, too, the parties should realise the limitation of use of power, that peace and reconciliation are not achieved through missiles, that security is not created through new walls, multiple settlements and continued occupation. It was correct and important to support Palestine’s application for observer status in the United Nations. It was a recognition of the results achieved by the self-government authorities in the construction of institutions necessary for a two-state solution. However, the Palestinian economy is in deep crisis. It's fatigue in the international donor community. We have a special responsibility as head of the donor country group. We must not fail to bear that responsibility. This is not least in Israel's interest. If the Palestinian economy breaks down, Israel sits as an occupying power alone with responsibility. Therefore, it is so incomprehensible that Israel is sometimes exacerbating the situation by holding back Palestinian tax revenues. In yesterday's spontaneous questioning, the examples of anti-semitism that the Israeli organisation Palestinian Media Watch revealed in Palestinian children's television were rightly strongly criticised. The government reacted by addressing this with President Abbas’s office, where there were also strong reactions. Antisemitism is unacceptable, wherever and however it is expressed. That is why the government, as the Foreign Minister explained yesterday, has had a broad commitment in Israel and Palestine to help clear away these kind of hateful enemy images and expressions, among other things. in school books. We have to stand up to antisemitism and extremism, wherever it manifests. However, I would like us to be able to agree on an equal commitment to the plans that Israel has launched for new settlements, among other things. in Jerusalem, which, if put into practice, undermines the possibilities of a two-state solution. I don't think it's a heavy demand to make to the new Israeli government that it stop the settlement movement when it continues to make arrangements in Palestinian territory. Extension of settlements in Palestinian territory must stop. It is an expectation that meets the new Israeli government in the international community. At the beginning of the nineteenth century, when the mariners made our constitution, China and India stood for about half the world's GDP. Today, China is the second largest economy in the world. Together with India, those who count on it estimate that the two countries will again account for half of the world's GDP by 2060. China, India, Vietnam, Indonesia – big, people-rich countries with economies that have had impressive economic growth over many years. It's important because it's brought a better everyday life and a more hopeful future to hundreds of millions of people. It is also important because growth in these countries has contributed to the financial crisis not becoming deeper than it has become. However, these countries, together with countries in Latin America and Africa, also represent new important trading partners for Norway – new important markets for Norwegian business. This changes the framework of our economic diplomacy and our international presence. It's traditional state science theory that economic power sooner or later changes into influence and military power. When Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland visited China in January 1988 and met Deng Xiaoping, Deng's opening line was that China needs peace with its neighbours for 100 years to evolve. I believe that the attitude towards this short-grown but great statesman, who put China on the adventurous economic development that has taken place since then, is still regarded as a fundamental guide in Beijing. When the Foreign Affairs Committee visited China in September 2010, we met a country where strong development manifested itself in the cityscape in Beijing and Shanghai, but where the politicians and researchers we met were more concerned with what was left than what was achieved. The fear that the differences between the coast and the inland would undermine the harmony of society was evident. That's why the next big leap is to develop the inland. But big countries take up a lot of space. It is therefore important that all these countries be integrated not only into the world economy through their economic growth and development, but also into the network of international bodies, agreements and commitments. Norway, which places such emphasis on a well-organised world, where law and law are the basis, and where disputes and conflicts are resolved in international bodies, must be a driving force for these countries to have their rightful place in international bodies and a role in which they also report legitimate interests or willingness to contribute. That is why we wholeheartedly support the government's efforts to provide China with observer status in the Arctic Council, together with the EU and others who have good reason for their interest. On Friday, I had the pleasure of celebrating Chinese New Year – the entrance to the Snake Year – together with the Norwegian Chinese Cooperation Organisation, a newly founded organisation working for contact between Norway and China. I hope that this kind of organisation too can help us overcome the damage that the 2010 Peace Prize award caused to the relationship between our countries. The year of the hose shall be marked by wisdom and creativity. I hope this will mark the diplomatic work that the Foreign Minister confirms is going on, in the evening post today, so that we can take up the thread from our fruitful cooperation in many areas, where this was so abruptly cut off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e157	We got a very thorough statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and as usual in Norwegian foreign policy, the disagreements are not big. Therefore, it is not difficult to join most of the presentation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that everything we do in foreign policy can be explained by Norwegian interests, and draws, for example, lines from peace negotiations in Colombia and to commercial interests in Brazil. This clarification is new and interesting. It also invites a major debate on foreign policy priorities, first of what are our main interests, and then of which instruments are most effective in meeting these interests. But I recognise that even with a strict priority, Norway will and will promote its interests widely. The Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to invest more in economic diplomacy. He also wants to copy the finders and bets on Team Norway. This has our full support. Providing relief to Norwegian industry outside their borders is of the utmost importance for the Norwegian foreign service. However, such a business activity must be filled with content and given the necessary priority. If this is to be more than just good words, it must be made concrete. We think it's demanding to do this without slowing down efforts in any other area. We meet the Minister for Foreign Affairs' thoughts on this, and here in the UK too, we would like to debate such priorities. Declaring a link between development aid and Norwegian business, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did, is good and something everyone should applaud. But we experience – and have experienced – that it has been difficult to accept that it is right to make such connections. This is not, of course, about the fact that we are going to start binding the aid again, as was usual in the past, but about seeing the context and what Norwegian business can contribute as a partner when we get involved. With regard to the EEA funds, it is now accepted that Norwegian enterprises or institutions should play a role. It was also not as natural a few years ago. So here's a development, and that's good. There is no reason for us to be less proud of our business and less eager to promote their interests than other Nordic and European countries. Free trade negotiations with India are being promoted as important. We agree. Asia has been increasingly important for Norwegian business for many years, and we need to make sure that we have the best possible conditions. We also look forward to the conclusion of negotiations with Russia. Like many others, we are committed to maintaining the good agreements with the EU. But in the case of one country, there is little or nothing talking about the economic and trade, namely the United States, still the world's largest economy. Yesterday, the news came that the EU and the United States are finding each other and are now starting negotiations on a comprehensive trade agreement. I raised this question here in the hall last autumn, without getting any comment. But I want to repeat the challenge: we need to ensure that Norwegian businesses have at least as good conditions as European business. It is a task for the government now to launch an opportunity study to conclude a trade agreement with the United States, preferably within the EFTA framework. What looked like a problem we could spend a little bit of time on, is now starting to get an urgency over it. There is no shortage of challenges in the Middle East and North Africa. The revolution that has probably only so far begun challenges both the region and the outside world. It is very important that we do not base other principles and human rights standards here than elsewhere. We must be clear and consistent in the defence of fundamental values and rights. We also have to dry out taking a settlement with states and movements that are obviously acting across acceptable standards. To a certain extent, the Foreign Minister did so, for example: in relation to Syria. But one of the main sponsors of the regime in Syria and of various terrorist movements, Iran, was not mentioned. Iran is a threat to stability in the region. They finance and support with weapons regimes and movements in a way that is far from promoting peace. In addition, they run an atomic programme and are a disaster in human rights. All of this makes it necessary to be clear in the condemnation of Iran's actions. I also agree with what the committee leader said about the handling of the nuclear threat from Iran. Norway and other countries were brutally affected by the terror in Algeria earlier this year. This is a strong reminder of the importance of continuing to fight extremism and terrorism. That fight must be conducted with many instruments, and we fully agree that it is not a single recipe. Over time, attention has been paid to the financing of terrorism, and this is important. Because there is a lot of evidence that today the economic motives behind some terrorist groups are almost as large as the ideological ones. We must combat their business plan and prevent them from operating. We have to dry down the debate about who it is that is essentially making financial contributions to, for example. the rebel groups in Mali and Sahel. These terrorists could not have obtained either weapons, cars or recruits if there was no one willing to finance the operation. Then it becomes important to go after the backers and, in some cases, states that support terrorism. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the Progress Party believes it is important to assess a Norwegian military contribution to Mali. We are concerned that the mandate for the possible UN operation is clear and possible to operate. Now that Norway has signalled its desire to participate, it is right that we should be involved in shaping the mandate from the outset. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given good signals about the importance of putting new observers in the Arctic Council. It is important that this is done this year and that the decision is not postponed. The starting point must be that Arctic Council remains the leading international organisation for addressing challenges in the Arctic. This requires the inclusion of all relevant parties, and until the Ministerial meeting in May Norway must use diplomatic and political energy to achieve this. At the same time, we must take care of what is peculiar to the Arctic Council, namely the participation of indigenous peoples and the close and good cooperation with research and knowledge environments. Also in the context of Arctic Councils, a start must be made to include the economic perspective. Otherwise, I don't disagree with any of the Foreign Minister's comments about the North, Barents and Arctic, but I miss the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the coordinating department is taking even clearer steps to bet offensively within several industries. Oil and gas are well maintained, but it is also preliminary where something significant has happened. There's going to be an elongated mineral strategy. Norway is definitely not in the front line here. In the setting up of the Northern Territory Communication, a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence considered a common approach in the mineral field of the Northern Calotte between Norway, Sweden and Finland to be a good idea. We think it's a lot to get coordination, not least in transport. Everyone is also talking about the northern sea route, but few are doing anything about it. It is now primarily the industry and not the authorities that are going to make progress, but in the organisation of e.g. infrastructure such as ports, search and rescue and communication have a role to play by the authorities. In the case of the Northern Sea Route, Norway is ideally located and will be able to provide a framework for its activities in strategic cooperation with relevant neighbouring countries. We are pleased that there is now an agreement in the Arctic Council on oil spills, in addition to the agreement almost two years ago on search and rescue. However, the challenge in both areas is capacity. The Arctic is an incredibly large area, and it will always be limited how much capacity we can have in place. But it is important to identify the available capacities between the Arctic states and see if we are going to join together to fill the most critical gaps. A limiting factor for search and rescue, different activity, coastguard, etc. is missing satellite coverage. When we invite you, for example. The petroleum industry enters the Arctic and is talking about new shipping routes, we have to assume that this requires new infrastructure in communications. You're practically blind in parts of the Arctic. This also applies to environmental monitoring, which is important in this area. This requires a significant cost charge, and such satellite coverage will also not be feasible today without the State taking part in the cost – preferably in cooperation with other Arctic states. We believe that the state budget, presented later this year, must give some signals about this. We will continue to work to ensure that the northern regions are characterized by calm and cooperation. At the same time, we should be clear that NATO also has a role to play in the north, and we must – in dialogue with other Arctic NATO countries – create an understanding of our challenges in the north. That there is a different approach to NATO and its role in the military security of the Arctic from different NATO countries is not in our interest. It is in our interest to clarify NATO's Arctic strategy. We have to make sure of that. Otherwise we will join in what is said about Russia. We are pleased that it will now be easier for Russians to obtain a multi-travel visa to Norway. This is something we have raised on several occasions, and we are pleased that we are harmonising the practice with Finland. We believe that close and broad cooperation with Russia serves our interests. Finally, I would like to say that we support the Foreign Minister's assessment of the relationship with China.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e197	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and thorough statement on Tuesday. The terrorist attack in In Amenas, Algeria, was quite repugnant and hit many innocent people, including several Norwegians. Our thoughts go to those who are affected, to the relatives and to all the employees of Statoil. That we have to live with threats and violence from extreme forces, both here at home and abroad, is something we have often been reminded of during this great period. I have thought that I had never believed – before I became a big representative – that some of the things I was going to remember best in the years after I sat on the Stortinget were enough violence, terror and the threat of terror. It has shaped us in a different way in recent years than I thought was possible. It's been less than two years since the terrorist attacks on the government building and Ut Island, and yesterday the Stortinget was protected by the armed police for hours. The terrorist attack in Algeria reminded us that Norwegians are also vulnerable to violence and terrorism abroad. Terror is the most humiliating form of action. It's an attack on everything that makes us human, and the best answer to terror is then to hold on to humanity. War as an instrument does not solve the problem of terrorism. I think, for example, the vast majority today will agree to establish that the war against Iraq, which broke out almost ten years ago, was a major mistake. The war lacked a basis of international law, it was a crime, and tens of thousands of people had to pay for their lives. But also today, we need to be vigilant and make sure that the methods used to combat terrorism not only actually work, but that they are legal. New technology is creating new dilemmas. Many of the drone attacks, e.g. in Yemen and Pakistan, they cannot be characterised as other than extrajudicial executions, and they also affect many innocent civilians. Drones, who are unmanned, occupy both humanitarian law in conflict situations and the principles of the Geneva Convention, precisely because the fact that they are unmanned both makes it unclear who is to be regarded as contentious, and deadlines for the use of violence that would lead to a much higher threshold if it were the usual fighter who was responsible. The possibilities of remote control of war operations with a computer from the other side of the globe were not a problem when the principles of the Geneva Convention were established. Norway must be clear that law and law, humanitarian law and the Geneva Convention must be observed, regardless of technological developments. I also want to say a little bit about Syria: as the committee leader was in the room, the civil war in Syria has been for almost two years and with very great human suffering as a result. The UN estimates that 70,000 people have been killed, and many more are fleeing in their own country or neighbouring countries. Both the government forces and the rebels are responsible for terrible war crimes, and there is no doubt – I would nevertheless stress – that it is Assad and his regime that bear responsibility for the development of violence. It is more important than ever to try to find a political solution to the conflict, where all parties in Syria are included. It must be worked for transitional negotiations, where the Syrians themselves have the decisive word. In Syria, what I want to call a "proxy war" is fought, with many actors in it. One of the main problems is that the regime-friendly forces, such as Iran, Russia and China, do not want a change, in fear that it will weaken their regional interests, while other countries are pushing for a regime change. If a political solution is to be possible, the UN and Special Envoy Brahimi must receive real support for their work. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself spoke very well about the responsibility of the entire international community to contribute to a solution in Syria, during the UN General Assembly last autumn. I'm a little in the Middle East – because despite the enthusiasm we all felt when the people of Egypt threw the dictatorship two years ago, it's hard to be too optimistic right now. The prosecutions of blasphemy, large internal tensions and the insufficient commitment of the new regime to democracy and reform are a huge disappointment for many of the young people in Egypt, who led the revolution. Not least, the position of women and the lack of room for action of the women movement are also very worrying. The widespread sexualized violence in Egypt may, for example, include: Only if, as a result of real equality, women are given autonomy over their own bodies. In Tunisia, too, there is cause for concern. Killed by one of the leading opposition politicians who show that Tunisia too – despite all of us having seen with optimism the development of the country – has far from completed its transition to a peaceful democracy. Earlier this winter, we once again had serious acts of war between Israel and Palestine. The attack on Gaza was out of all reasonable proportions. Houses and press houses were bombed, and most worrying — except for the major civilian losses — is that infrastructure and government buildings seemed to be the main targets. If the objective is to reduce rocket attacks by violent groups in Gaza, it makes little sense to destroy the possibilities of maintaining some form of control and monopoly of violence in Gaza. The monopoly of violence is a word we rarely use, but it is an important word, because if a negotiated solution is to be possible, Israel is dependent on having a party that is predictable to negotiate with. Let's try to see this from the perspective of Israel: that the country has the right to defend itself is almost a semantic of course – it has all countries. The politicisation of the term ‘self-defence’, on the other hand, with active use of e.g. propaganda posters on social media are a problem – both because it makes the very sentence a politically charged speech, and because it implies that occupation, blockade, bombing and all the other actions being done are also subject to self-defense, and that is not, of course, the case. A country's right to self-defence is enshrined in international law. This does not mean that other acts of war and assault against the civilian population can be justified, and that is not necessarily an argument – as we have seen used in Norway – that Hamas is worse, or that they are shooting rockets. Because they're the ones you have to find a solution with. It sounds very controversial when you say that, but it always tends to sink in. It hasn't been many years since my party, for example. The Taliban was alone in saying that it had to be part of a political solution in Afghanistan. We were condemned by the Right and Advance Party, who said we wanted tea company with the Taliban. Today, all are supporters of a political solution that includes the Taliban — including the United States of America. That doesn't mean that you don't benefit from either their ideology or the methods that these movements use, but you've looked at a political solution. This is particularly important in Palestine. A new study shows that 69 pst. by the Palestinians first and foremost identify themselves as Muslims and then as Palestinians. It is a dramatic development for a country that has historically been represented by secular movements of resistance. People resort to religion in the absence of a political solution. Then it is not the answer to condemning people resorting to religion as an answer instead – it must be to provide a political solution. Israel and Palestine could have been an amazing neighbour. It's a rich cultural life. There are two people with strong secular traditions and a millennial neighbourhood. For decades of violence and occupation, many people believe that the conflict is insoluble and that it is religious and ethnic. It is not – it is political. Therefore, it was so important that almost all political Norway supported the government’s decision to support PLO’s application for upgraded status in the UN. A good example of how effective such political milestones can be is that Hamas in its entirety joined the resolution. It provides both momentum and authority for President Abbas and the Palestinian authorities, and it provides a better climate for a political and peaceful solution between Israel and what Norway now formally calls Palestine. The conflict is, as I said, political, so it is so incredibly important to be involved in fighting the forces that exploit the fight to spread hatred and antisemitism. Antisemitism is not a new or geographically defined phenomenon. Antisemitism is a poison that we all have a responsibility to defeat, perhaps especially in Europe. We've had to fight it before. Finally, there's so much I can't reach within ten minutes. I've written several pages about Mali. Let me just say that it is a wise decision by the government not to participate in the EU's training contribution now, but rather to consider a contribution from the UN. I think that's important. A Norwegian newspaper wrote about the terrorist attack in Algeria and the war in Mali that extreme Islamism is an international phenomenon. It's a bit of a dangerous simplification, because by thinking that way, you take away not only the opportunity to understand the local causes of the conflict, but also the opportunities for local solutions. That is why I believe that the Progress Party was completely on wild roads when they called for the use of comprehensive Norwegian military power in Mali.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e241	First, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. The foreign policy situation shows that we are living at a time of great change, where strict demands are being made to develop our foreign policy as changes take place elsewhere in the world. Both the Arab Spring and the consequences of the economic crisis for individual countries are the result of a combination of both domestic political issues, where we see violations of human rights, repression and the lack of democratic anchoring of different regimes in our own country, and not least fundamental international developments. The ever-increasing globalisation, the internationalisation of trade and industrial activities and the increase in travel activities of individuals affect us and the international trends more and more. Of course, it creates opportunities, but it also creates challenges, conflicts and crises. Different distributions of resources as well as political and ideological differences are also an obvious and sustained source of conflict internationally. The situation in Mali has required the involvement of the world community. The Minister for Foreign Affairs makes it clear that any UN-led operation will be prioritised by Norway rather than participating in an EU force. For the Center Party and for me, this is exactly what's important. A mandate from the United Nations, based on the International African Force AFISMA, will be absolutely essential to ensure that any increased Western presence does not provoke an extension and deterioration of the conflict, but that, through the emphasis on African contributions, Mali can be developed to become a safer country. I am somewhat surprised that the Right in its eagerness to, call it, satisfy its foreign-policy EU ambitions does not see that a United Nations mandate should be a decisive political basis for increased international engagement. There appears to be a clear trend that the level of conflict in key areas is also increasing in Asia. This happens at the same time as we see long, positive trends in wealth growth and improved living conditions in many Asian countries, for example. China. Conflicts in the regions often have a historical background. Different ethnic groups, different geographical conflicts over time, old contradictions and different political regimes are also important. We are once again seeing the consequences of foreign policy developments as a result of individual political decisions. A topic which the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not elaborate in his presentation, but which I would nevertheless like to mention, are the conflicts associated with the South China Sea. In the statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to our trade relations with the countries of the East. We export, among other things, Large quantities of fish to the countries of Asia, while the opposite is the case importing a number of goods, from clothing to cars. These important export markets are becoming even more important to us at times when our traditional markets in Europe are at risk of failure. Both the role of Asia as an increasingly important trading partner and a worrying geopolitical situation should call our attention. Five countries claim to have sovereignty over parts of the South China Sea, while China believes it is right across the sea. At the same time, we see that North Korea is provoking the neighbourhood strongly with new nuclear testing. As a consequence, the defence budgets include: in Japan, China, South Korea and India increased significantly in the last decade. I think this is very alarming. The South China Sea has huge fishing resources, and it is one of the world's most important shipping routes. Of course, it is not up to the Norwegian authorities to take care of these complex conflicts, but on the Norwegian side we have both knowledge of, and strong ownership and relation to, international maritime law. We should therefore be able to give clear signals that international maritime law must, among other things, form the basis for finding a solution to the territorial conflict at sea in this region as well. As the Foreign Minister mentioned in his statement, the Asian countries, with China, are an increasingly important partner for Norway. As Norway has indirect interests in Asia, we have recently observed that China obviously also expresses, call it, indirect interests in the northern regions. Cooperation in international bodies and trade is both an important instrument for increased international coherence and understanding. I think it's right from the Norwegian side to find wise solutions, so that we can invite China into Arctic cooperation in the north. In Northern Region policy, I would particularly like to stress the importance of strengthening the opportunities for industrial development in our northern parts of the country. The Norwegian district policy has helped to maintain the settlement throughout the country. It gives us a different role and more weight among countries with interests in the northern regions. Norwegian sovereignty becomes more evident when there is growth, prosperity and light in the houses than if it were, call it, wasteland in half Norway. It is primarily the supply of rich natural resources that has provided the basis for industrial activities in the northern regions, and in this way also employment and housing. Earlier this week the news came that Statoil will land oil from Skrugard on North Cape. This facilitates workplaces in the north and is good evidence that marine petroleum activity produces ring-effects locally and regionally. This is also an important decision in foreign policy. But here, as in other contexts, active planning and political decisions are required to achieve the goal of more activity in the north. This will make us an even more important player in the Northern Region policy and not least take care of Norwegian national interests. Food security is becoming increasingly important internationally, and in both the United States and India this has been a major issue lately. The new US Secretary of State John Kerry, in his speech of accession, placed great emphasis on food security as one of the three main areas of US foreign policy. At the same time, India plans to use up to 12 pst. by the State budget to secure its poor supply of food through The National Food Security Bill. Poor people shall be entitled to food. It is a fantastic political project in the world's greatest democracy that could include 75 pst. of the rural population and 50 pst. by the population of cities. Probably it will involve between 400 and 500 million people. 65 million tonnes of different plant products, including: cereals and rice shall be dedicated to this purpose. We should learn from India that food is the premise for poverty reduction and all other growth and development. For this reason, Norway is now almost 1 billion. kr annually from the aid budget for various measures to strengthen food security. The new food security strategy provides for an increase in this aid of about 500 million. kr over a period of three years. The climate crisis is causing food production to become increasingly disastrous, and we also need to prepare in the future for a deterioration, with even more drought and floods. We know that food shortages can create major conflicts. Variations in world market prices of food can plunge millions into poverty and hunger. Like the United States, and like India, Norway has to put food security on the international agenda. In 2014, we will receive the UN International Year of Family Farming. We should then focus on the right and duty of each country to produce food for its own population as a crucial basis for poverty reduction, the reduction of hunger and the reduction of international conflicts. Trade will and must continue to be an important complement in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e275	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an unusually broad presentation. Very many of the challenges he presented, the assessments he made, and the leaders he presented, are well in line with the Christian People's Party's line in foreign policy. We are e.g. Satisfied with the strong emphasis on human rights in general and the minority project in particular. This is something we've been imagining for many years by the Christian People's Party, not least the central dimension of the project that is securing minority freedom of belief. Something has happened here in the last few years that we are well satisfied with – after we have been hanging on the case for many years. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right, yes, it is in many ways a prerequisite for the realization of the other human rights. It may also be worth remembering that historically it is not least through the struggle for freedom of belief, the right of individual man to determine his faith and live it out into society, that the right to freedom of expression has also emerged in other areas. The struggle for freedom of expression and belief must still go hand in hand, as two sides of the same case. I am pleased that Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide so clearly states that the Norwegian minority project should have a special focus on beliefs and beliefs. We cannot be indifferent when millions of people are subjected to discrimination and persecution. It is happening today in a number of countries in the world — in countries with authoritarian regimes and not least where extreme Islamists have power. In recent years we have seen a popular uprising against authoritarian dynasties in the Arab world. Several regimes have fallen. But we have no guarantee that the vacuum of power that is created will be filled with democracy and human rights. Many experience a new wave of frustration and despair, fear of repressiveness, or suffering from ongoing civil war. If extreme Islamists take over power, it can, and will often, go from evil to worse. We've seen that in several countries. The worst example is Iran. There the uprising slips over into sustained bloody civil war, as in Syria, the sufferings of the civilian population become terrible. There's reason to warn against naivety. There are actors that have objectives other than freedom. Not only do we see that in Syria, we also saw it during the terrorist action that hit the In Amenas gas plant in Algeria. We see it in northern Mali and a number of other places along the Sahel belt in northern Africa. In Syria, we must press for peace and reconciliation, for humanitarian access and protection and for increased humanitarian aid for those suffering. In Mali and Sahel, moreover, we must have a broad strategy. Long-term efforts are needed here for policy solutions to internal conflicts and reforms for a better governance set. Economic reforms and development measures are needed to combat the poverty of large groups and unfair differences and discrimination. Countries must be able to take care of their national security and people’s security in everyday life. Particularly important are measures that create a better relationship between the tuareans in the north and the population in the rest of Mali. It can also ensure that we get the tuareans into the fight against the Al Qaida-inspired Islamists who are in the north. I would like to encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs to use the wide network of competences available in Norway and Norwegian organisations in the field of, in particular, these development tasks in Mali and North Africa. With the help of France, the immediate threat from heavily armed Islamic rebel groups has been re-established in Mali. But to succeed in the longer term, a different recipe is needed — a broader strategy, an African strategy. The Foreign Minister made a statement with a sentence that I would almost call the "doctrinal doctrine of the oath" – if I may. He said, "I think the time of the great Western intervention is over after Iraq and Afghanistan." That's wise speech. The reason for the foreign minister was that in countries like Mali, a long-standing and high-profile Western presence could work against its purpose. You just risk strengthening the enemy images that Al Qaida is trying to build up, which they depend on all the time to feed. Therefore, the solutions must lie in the regions. We very much agree with this. We have to learn lessons from Afghanistan. No country is the same, but there are experiences that we have to take with us. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we share the government's view when it refuses to participate in an EU force. We would rather give priority to Norwegian support for a UN force, if appropriate, both in terms of what is needed and what we have to contribute. We await the government's possible playoffs and expect it to come to Stortinget with any concrete proposals. To achieve popular uproar on reconciliation and peace, prejudices and enemy images must be built down. Last Sunday, the NRK Dagsrevyen had a report on antisemitism in the Middle East focusing on the relationship between Palestinians and Jews. The programme was evidence-based and documented. As we have pointed out for a number of years by the Christian People's Party, it is sent from Palestinian media – also from the TV station of the self-government – regular programs with racist content, where the Jews as a group of people are branded in a completely unacceptable way. The worst part is that there are well-prepared entries on children's television. Children are used to deliver unadulterated messages of the type “Our enemy is Zion – Satan with tail.” Jews are on Palestinian television – funded by the self-government authorities – produced as devils with tails, such as monetary Greek, power-sick beings who drive a conspiracy for world domination. We know the loop in the hall! This cannot be ignored as a result of adult political agitation. This is not about political struggle and debate, about occupation or security, terrorism or border controls. This is a serious relationship. But what we're talking about is pure racism and the demonization of a people's group -- anti-semitism, which attributes negative traits to the Jews like humans. It is bluffy when the Palestinian programme director says that it only happens occasionally in direct transmissions they cannot control, and that they correct it afterwards. It is against better knowledge that from the Palestinian Embassy here in Oslo it is claimed that Palestinian culture and history are free from antisemitism and that the problem is the occupation. Although I am pleased that Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide and the Department are now definitely addressing the problem of Palestinian authorities, I am not satisfied that anti-Semitism is being seen as an integral part of the political struggle with which we must find ourselves. This is anti-Semitist racism, it is unacceptable, and it undermines what Norway is trying to achieve in the Middle East of reconciliation, peace and development. Let me also say that we are united in criticising both Israeli and Palestinian actions that make the work of a peace settlement difficult. It concerns the Palestinian attitude towards terrorism and the acceptance of the State of Israel, and the Israeli settlement policy in sensitive areas. But the question of regular antisemitism in Palestinian television is in a special class. It is about racism and the deliberate indoctrination of innocent children in a television channel funded by Palestinian authorities. We must demand an immediate end to that. Even in our own part of the world, Europe, we experience examples of racism. High-ranking stressism is fueled by economic crises, many of which are afraid of getting worse. Left-wing extremism can also be fuelled by crises. In addition to these old ideological blind holes, we have received Islamist extremism – jihadism. Such extreme ideologies have in common that they are looking for scapegoats to blame instead of looking for constructive solutions. They mistrust democracy, define groups from the sphere of tolerance and cultivate violence. We must combat extremism in all its forms. In the domestic debate on Europe, we have observed with some wonder the conflict within the governing parties whether the EEA Agreement should be defended or attacked. It's almost a ritual exercise for circuits in the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party to demand rematch to remove the foundation of our trade with the rest of our main trading partners. It was high time the Prime Minister put his foot down and demanded clarification about this. The management of both the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party has now found – and officially confirmed – that the EEA Agreement should remain in place. It is now a prerequisite for any responsible government option in Norway. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased to be able to establish that here today. Let me conclude by saying that we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, are satisfied with the strong and serious message given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in terms of Norway's cooperation with China. There's a dialogue going on, a cooperation to normalize our relationships. These are relationships that have historically been very good, very constructive and characterized by trust and long lines. Therefore, we have something to build on when the work of restoring and normalising these compounds is now in an important phase. The Foreign Minister should know that he has the full support of the Christian People's Party in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e292	The Minister for Foreign Affairs initially said on Tuesday that his statement was not «a catalogue of everything we are engaged in». I have to say that the statement to the Storting was quite close and close to a catalogue of all the policy areas that are important in the foreign field. But it would never have bothered me to criticize a foreign minister for informing the Storting too much, so I think it was very good, much we agree with, but there are some things we on the Left want to raise. It is also true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, that we have many opportunities to discuss further both the EU/EEA, the UN and Afghanistan. But there is one point I would like to raise, which is about Afghanistan, also because the Minister of Foreign Affairs has a past as Minister of Defence. It's about how the Foreign Minister looks at the situation of our former local staff interpreting in Afghanistan, given the responsibility we have for their security now. I would have liked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to have some comments on that in his statement here today. I said earlier in this room that I am calling for a clear value-based foreign policy from the Norwegian side, where fundamental human rights are the guiding star and what we are going to follow as a political basis, not just something that we are going to wait and see, but where we are actually going ahead and setting an example. It is great that the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirms that Norway should focus on – as it is now called – human rights, democracy, minorities and freedom of expression. But at the same time, I would like to stress that we need to be clear about the consequences. Human rights are universal and apply to everyone, everywhere, at all times. It must be our main leading star in foreign policy. They must not just be ‘entirely central’, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, but be the most important. In our part of the world, we also have a number of countries that are not exactly prominent in human rights issues. Ukraine was referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In Ukraine, everything is going in the wrong direction both in terms of legislation and groundless prosecution. General policy developments are also going in the wrong direction. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was so clear in his reference to Belarus as ‘the last dictatorship of Europe’ – because that is what they are. In fact, there has been a shift in Norway’s rhetoric about Belarus in the last year – and for the better, in the left’s opinion. It is important here to support under the sprouts of positive development. It is important to have good contact with the opposition and to support human rights groups and NGOs working to promote democracy. It is about making demands that we do not negotiate a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Russia. It is totally unacceptable to negotiate, albeit indirectly, with Belarus, as the situation is in the country today. I noticed that the Foreign Minister in the same breath as he mentioned Ukraine and Belarus, also mentioned Azerbaijan – and rightly so. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech, as I quote: ‘continue to communicate our views on developments in the country, and we support measures to contribute to respect for fundamental rights’. That sounds nice. But it did not sound as good in January in the reports of today's Economy from the door-to-door tour that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was on, where he referred to Azerbaijan's president as a «visionary and intelligent leader» and said things like that the president «has a long-term vision for the country» and «that he sits for a while making him think long-term». Then I have to admit that I squirmed a little. Dictators use the opportunity to think in the long term, but that's not the kind of long-term that I think we should pursue politically. In his interview with Nettavisen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs tried to explain that the statements had been taken ‘out of context and that they have to be put in a geopolitical context’. That's what I think, to say it carefully, is a little thin excuse. The left believes that we should in any case insist that it is short-term just to take on Norwegian financial interests in front of human rights. Norway’s long-term interests are always to prioritise human rights first. Trade and economic interests are important, but it is even more important to stand up for human rights and democracy. So to Russia – our neighbor in the north. And here we also see that evolution is going in the wrong direction. Here it is important to support the movement of democracy and those who fight for democratic rules. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned the maritime changes that have come after the presidential elections, and the unfortunate developments we have seen. The left has good contact with our sister party Yabloko, who is constantly telling us about violations of democratic rules, arbitrary prisons and the difficulty of operating opposition policies in our neighbouring country Russia. I also noticed the Foreign Minister's views on China. I think it was a bit unfortunate undertone from the Foreign Minister when he established that the peace price has ‘damaged’ the bilateral relationship. Here it is important to stand on the principle that the price has been awarded by an independent committee. It was almost as if you heard a complaint against China. It is important to maintain normal trade relations, but at the same time it is important to stick to our criticism of the undemocratic aspects of the Chinese regime and to give our support to the freedom fighters. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the conflicts we are facing right now. I share the Foreign Minister's reality description with regard to Syria. It's gone from bad to worse. This deeply worries both me and Left. The humanitarian situation is acute, and if the Assad regime continues as it is today, this will have disastrous consequences. Norway must therefore use all its influence with the members of the UN Security Council and otherwise exercise influence where we can, to put an end to this. In the case of Mali, the left has as its starting point that strong and consistent civil engagement is the key. We do not exclude a future Norwegian military effort to improve and protect a war-torn population, but the main focus must be on the civil part of the effort. The experience of Afghanistan suggests that military support in the long term does not resolve conflicts nor can it create peace, but only brings effect together with support for civil society. Military support for any UN-led operation should primarily go to the training of ECOWAS and soldiers from other African countries in both military and human rights issues. Then I would like to stress that Norway has a lot of knowledge about Mali, especially North Malta, not least from the peace work done during the civil war in 1992-1996 in the north. This competence for public participation in Northern Malta, in particular by voluntary aid and development actors, should be used by Norway in its commitment to Mali. Increased local maritime governance and the channelling of resources to local authorities are a prerequisite for rebuilding a functioning society. Economic support for education and work against poverty can motivate local people and politicians to regain faith in democracy and civil society. In addition, international support should be provided for the training and construction of democratic and non-ethnic party organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e329	I would first like to express my gratitude for the positive words that were said, not least because I think we are well placed to mark for the outside world that there is a broad consensus about the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy. That it is expressed in such a debate is important for all of us – and not least for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I want to start a little bit with some reflections in the extension of what I said about Asia. Several have rightly raised concerns related to North Korea's nuclear tests. In my statement on Tuesday, I stressed the importance of a global society reacting spontaneously and uniformly to it. I was glad that it was a little later in the day – not necessarily because I had said so in my presentation, but nevertheless – that the Security Council gathered on a very clear statement. All members, and not least all of the permanent five members, have also later expressed very unanimous views on this and signalled a desire to return to dialogue between the countries of North Korea, the United States, China, Russia, South Korea, etc. It's important. It is important to address the challenges in North Korea, but it is also important to curb the negative impact of test explosions and rocket launches from North Korea on geopolitical stability in East Asia in general. An important part of my concern is that the completely logical and fully understandable countermeasures that a number of countries in North Korea will now have to take could contribute to both arms race and new tensions against third countries. That is why it is important for us Europeans to recognise that while we were used to thinking in the last century that the geopolitical centre was in Europe in many ways – in Germany, in the division of Germany, in Berlin, in Checkpoint Charlie – it is no longer like this. To the extent that you have such a center for how the world evolves today, I think we should look to Eastern Asia to see where the really big tensions are. How these can be resolved can either contribute to more cooperation between the major countries or more tension and conflict. It includes, of course, the maritime issues that were addressed, among other things. by the representative, Mr Breck. Our view is that Norway never takes a position directly in other countries' maritime waters, but we encourage all countries to base the United Nations Maritime Law Commission on the solution of these kinds of questions, as we have succeeded successfully in doing in the Arctic. I believe that the success of Arctic cooperation in this area is an important model also for other seas where the issues are more controversial. As the representative Eriksen Soreide was in, it is important to understand how development in the region also strengthens the interest and desire to be closer to the United States for a number of countries in East and South East Asia that are politically close to us. It is important that we recognise as NATO countries, allying with the United States. I think one of the reasons why we're going to be happy to do that is that the American security guarantee to countries like Japan and South Korea also helps to mitigate the forces in those countries that one day had to start arguing for a move against, for example. their own nuclear weapons. That's why the role of the United States in Asia is of a stabilizing nature, and it makes sense that the United States is putting more emphasis on this now. We are also concerned about the nuclear programme in Iran. It's a very big concern for the entire international community. We warmly support the 3+3 negotiations, also known as 5+1, in Almaty – both of them become known as 6. We are directly involved in a broad dialogue with Iran also on a number of other issues: refugee issues, drugs, human rights, regional issues, Afghanistan, for example, because it is important that we have a broad agenda against an Iran that is heavily present – and in many ways with negative signs – in several conflicts in the region. We're also working on this in the IAEA, and I'm going to visit the IAEA next week just paying attention to how we can move forward there in parallel with what's happening in the international negotiations that we're not in, but we're very supportive of. I concluded that I wasn't going to spend much time on Afghanistan in this statement, simply because I have asked to explain specifically to Afghanistan. But I feel the need to say that I feel that there is indeed reason for more optimism than just a few years ago. Contrary to the impression that the army of doomsday prophets spread every time you open a newspaper, my impression is that it is more likely that you get a broad political reconciliation. The Taliban office in Doha is about to open soon, not least the United States has been very busy getting to. We have qualified reason to believe that they are now signaling that they are ready to discuss directly with the Afghan authorities, with the so-called High Peace Council, and that they are also going to mark their clear and definitive violations of international terrorism. It has been one of the important demands, as well as civil rights, women's rights, etc. I would like to use the opportunity to thank the words that the representative Højbräten and several others gave both on the importance of value-based foreign policy and on what was said about Mali. Both the representative Skei Grande and the representative Højbräten were in the fact that there is considerable expertise in Mali in Norway, and important Norwegian organisations that have been present for many years. Me and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been talking to these organizations lately, and we feel that there is quite a broad consensus in these environments about the approach we are now taking – that we are going to take a role, but also that we are going to be careful to support something that would look like a purely western, long-term intervention. This must be anchored in Mali, in neighbouring countries, in Africa and in the United Nations, and I am pleased with the broad support that this view has received today, and also in comments earlier. We had a long round in the Question Time yesterday about hateful remarks directed at Jews in the Palestinian media. I just want to repeat that this is not something we can accept, this is something we take a sharp distance from, something we've taken a distance from, and something we're going to continue to take a distance from. It cannot be reduced just to an expression of the conflict. I believe, of course, that the conflict continues to make things worse, and that a solution to the fundamental conflict itself will make it easier to fight this. Having said that, I feel the need – perhaps even more clearly than yesterday – to stress that it is not our opinion that things are going against things worse. On the contrary, I have now looked very carefully at many of the projects we have been directly involved in, and talked to our people in the region who believe that it is likely that the teaching of holocaust in the Palestinian schools is perhaps the best in the Arab world. It's precisely because of our and other international donors' strong commitment to how education is to be given. In fact, education in human rights — a number of concrete projects — has influenced this so that both the West Bank and Gaza now have curricula and practices that focus more on individual rights, more on the universality of human rights, and more on historical conditions such as holocaust than is common in other Arab countries. It shows that the answer to this is not only to protest, but also to do something. I think that's an important topic. Without spending a lot of time on it, I would say that in this region is hateful speech and hostility towards other groups not isolated to one side of the debate – to say it carefully. Finally, in this round, I would like to stress that, in the minority project on value-based and human rights-based foreign policy, when we look towards the Middle East and the Arab world, and the Arab Spring, we place great emphasis on religious and life-related minorities – including women and sexual minorities – and a number of groups that have now not only had it difficult but are perhaps in the process of getting it more difficult. The more important it is that we also see the serious trends that we experience on our own continent, and they come. It is absolutely right that we should distance ourselves from extremism in any form it occurs, but there is a particular cause for concern about the emergence of right-wing extremism. It is a concern the Council of Europe has, it is a concern the EU has, and it is not least a concern that what begins in small, isolated groups is part of wider political groupings in a number of European countries. This requires a clear and clear European response.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e350	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e354	In my speech, I challenged the Foreign Minister about the beginning we are now seeing of a possible EU-US free trade agreement, and how Norway will deal with it. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take this up with his colleague in the government, the Council of State, Giske, so that Norway challenges EFTA at the next ministerial meeting in EFTA to start work to ensure that the business life of Norway and EFTA can get conditions that are parallel to those of the EU, hopefully, with the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e359	The answer is yes, this is high on our agenda. It is quite right to point out that when it now appears that there can be movement in the EU-US negotiations, we need to see what that means for EFTA, and how we can have a parallel process with EFTA. As the representative of Høglund is well known, it is sometimes the case that EFTA is leading, and sometimes the EU is leading, but there is often a significant parallelity in these processes. Let me underline the importance of a close economic relationship with the United States in the coming years. Even though we have now had a lot of focus on the emergence of the brand new Asia, Latin America and Africa, making more reasonable energy and better economic governance – thanks to a sensible American president who is actively using the country's instruments to stimulate the economy – that we are now seeing that industrial production is actually happening in the United States again, in a way that was not thought to happen a few years ago. Workplaces are coming back to the United States, so it's important for us as a small, open economy to have good trade relations with the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e366	I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very clear about the EEA Agreement and Norway's relationship with Europe. With regard to the Stortinget and European policy, it must be said that it is the Labour Party and the Advance Party that are the backbone of the EEA line on which the Stortinget has applied. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs as we approach a big choice: if it goes so wrong that there is still a red-green majority in Stortinget after the elections, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs guarantee Norwegian consent to continue the EEA Agreement, regardless of whether the two government partners of the Workers' Party, the Centre and SV, are followers of saying the whole agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e371	I very much appreciate every opportunity once again to conclude that it would be inappropriate for the next red-green government to do anything other than build on what we have built on for the previous two periods, namely that the EEA Agreement is based on. It has also been clearly established by the Prime Minister, and to the extent that there should still be some doubt about it, I would also like to do so. There is a problem which was resolved before the Stoltenberg II government was created in 2005, confirmed in 2009, and which applies, as the recent debate has well confirmed, for the next round of the Stoltenberg II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e376	The Minister of Foreign Affairs showed in his statement that we have a strengthened military presence in the north. But is this in line with the world of reality, when we look at the capacity we have at our disposal: five frigates, six coastal corvettes, just halfway manned and with inadequately integrated equipment – we see that the Coast Guard still sails without a helicopter, we have rescue helicopters with impaired preparedness, and there are fewer Orion floats in our northern regions. So my question is, is it the real picture, if you peel away the comments of the communications consultants, that there is a strengthened Norwegian military presence in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e381	This gives a good feeling to a former Minister of Defense, for this debate I feel that I recognize. We have had a sharp escalation in the defence budget in Norway in recent years, contrary to the main trend in NATO. Norway is the country in Europe that spends the most money on defence per capita. We're the second largest in the alliance after the United States, and we're the seventh largest in the world. In addition, we have implemented a conversion of the Defence that almost lacks similarity in other European countries. Those aren't my words, they're NATO's words, at the latest confirmed by NATO's Deputy Secretary-General when he was here earlier this week: you see this, in many ways, as an example. We have made massive investments in new materials. What we, as the representative of Kristiansen well knows, are now working on, and where my colleague, Mr Stroem-Erichsen, has his particular focus, is a personnel reform. The defence's principal problem today is not a lack of money or homes, but it is difficult to get and keep the right personnel who can use all this equipment. That's why we have a special focus on it in the next round of development of the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e390	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs paid attention to Burma in his presentation. I am just as amazed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not any clearer in terms of debt cancellation. The background for this is clear: a fabulous progress in Burma, from a very low level. The truth, which was also reflected in an Aung San Suu Kyi quotation, is that the generals have now changed from uniform to civil. There has been great positive progress, but no one knows what the future will bring. So the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs simply has to be: why does the government choose a debt cancellation without any demands attached to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e395	We've been working a lot with Myanmar, as it's now officially called, in the last few years. I believe that we have played an important role in supporting the early reform efforts we saw in 2011 and that have now turned out to be full-blown. I think there is full agreement between the representative Skovholt Gitmark and myself that there is a very long way left, but the direction is clearly positive, and the movement has rarely gone far in just a few years. As far as debt is concerned, there are overall residues from the 1970s maritime export campaign. It is, to put it mildly, one of the less sensible trade policies that have ever arisen in this country. We have deleted all other shipping debts – we have never received any money again – but detained in Sudan and Myanmar in 2007, when the other countries were wiped out. It's just that kind of debt. Almost everything is interest, not debt as such, but interest on a completely unrealistic debt. It wasn't an option to dump it in pieces. So there's one liability, and it's surrendered. We believe that it makes sense to do what we have done with all the other countries that were exposed to this shipping campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e402	The Minister of Foreign Affairs shall be commended for emphasising the value-based foreign policy. It's important that we don't let go of it. At the same time, he called for a link between Norwegian business interests and development policy that is stronger and stronger than I have heard from any foreign minister in the past. It is possible that I have heard it from Minister of Development Solheim, but not from any Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs' reflections on how he will counteract the danger of our national self-interests being governed, across the interests of the countries with which we cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e407	Firstly, the representative Højbrätten has understood me correctly. This is a clear and clear signal. Secondly, I would like to say that this is a real problem that we take seriously, and must take it seriously. To say the most formal first: it is clear that funds reported as ODA-approved assistance, must of course go to it, within the criteria that apply. They should not be used for nutrition promotion as such – there are other money in other chapters. We have to be clear about it all, otherwise it'll be an unintended mixture. But then I would say that since I actually believe that trade is even more important than assistance, it is for example. facilitating trade and investment through all-profit-making assistance, also good for Norwegian business. If we, for example, – we were just in Myanmar – have been able to contribute to better telecommunications legislation in Myanmar, so that international competition can be achieved under clear conditions, I am not sorry that Telenor is using the opportunity that arises. There's two different things, but they're connected in a way that I think is highly defendable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e416	I had several questions in my post that I had really expected the Council of State to answer. I'll still use this line to raise one of the things that I think are most important. Norway has a tradition of having a high star internationally in terms of human rights. At the same time, our leading institution in this area, the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at the University of Oslo, has lost its A status as a UN body. State Secretary Gry Larsen has said that Norway wants an MRI institution with an A status, and that the department is in the process of doing so. Shouldn't the ministry have done it a little earlier and been a little more proactive, so that we actually always made sure that we had a national MR institution with speech rights in the relevant UN bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e424	I would like to stress that this has nothing to do with the state of human rights in Norway, it has to do with the degree of association of the institution with other official institutions, including the University of Oslo. This has been a long debate, and it is now a very concrete process, involving all interested parties — including those most concerned with human rights — in order to find a new form of association that meets the criteria of independence that have been at the root of the whole process. That was what was meant by the development of the previous model – which was a broad political consensus on the other hand, and which I remember was that the left engaged strongly at the time – that we had. So now we've seen that you have to do the actual connection in a different way, and it's going to happen in a reasonably close future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e432	In a week when the pope's alert abdication was perhaps the greatest news of the world, Obama has also been talking about the state of the United States. There Obama spoke about the need for better arms control, and he also stated that the independence of women is the main way to combat poverty in the world. I'm also very pleased that Obama so clearly addressed the climate crisis as a matter of greater seriousness in the world. That's why it's good to be able to start this article with the belief in and the hope of a world that every day can take a little step forward towards a more fair, more peaceful and more sustainable globe. We live in a world that has more mobile phones than water toilets. This is a sign of imbalance and that many still lack basic infrastructure, clean water, health services and safe food. The climate crisis reinforces the challenges. Recently, China's new leader, Jinping, gave his first foreign policy speech. That was interesting. There he stated that China will continue to strive for peaceful development, but that they will never renounce legitimate rights or their core interests. Neither would we. In March, Jinping will be appointed as a new president if the People's Congress wants to, as it will. China is in the midst of strong economic growth, but also has major internal differences. Cities are growing rapidly, while the village is still hanging for it. China is everything at once – an economic melting pot, but at the same time a country with great inequalities internally, a country with solid foreign reserves, a country that offensively safeguards its interests all over the world. China is a global player, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs decided. That is why we also expect more of China than ever — that China should lead in climate action, that human rights should be respected. We respect the way out of China from the Norwegian side, and we look forward to a better dialogue than we've had in recent years. Last autumn we experienced fires at textile factories in Bangladesh. It revealed child labour, it revealed some of the slave contracts in the textile industry. It would be great if we could put in place a labelling scheme for textiles that shows where in the world and at which factory a garment – or a curtain or a duvet, for that matter – has been produced. It requires willingness to open up the textile industry, and more and more go in that direction. In Norway, Stormberg deserves praise for his openness, and I have to admit that yesterday evening my dream of a brand new industry was given. Because what is now happening in the EU is very important. Yesterday, the Commission launched a wish for the EU to introduce legislation to ensure that there is transparency around the clothing manufacturer. If this EU law becomes applicable, it will of course also become Norwegian law, and a victory for all who fight for transparency, transparency, better working conditions and ethical trade in the world. In Afghanistan, despite much better results and a decline in infant mortality and maternal mortality of 40 p.m. are still. in the last few years, the most dangerous thing you can do, getting pregnant. In several parts of the world, girls are remarried at the age of 11–12 years, while in Norway the number of teenage pregnancies is among the lowest in the world. Despite many good, visible results around women's bets in recent years, there is still a lot to do. The Labour Party is very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the woman’s perspective so clearly in his speech. The world is cruelly unfair. The question is what we choose to do with it. Perhaps the unfairness and uneven distribution in the world is one of the greatest security threats of our time. Höglund criticised Norwegian industrial aid. I would just like to inform you at the end of the article that the evaluation of Norwegian industrial aid that has been carried out shows that Norwegian support for industrial development has created about approx. 110 000 jobs in the last 10 to 15 years. It's worth taking with you into the shelter of Højlund's articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e458	Let me also thank the Foreign Minister for an interesting and insightful presentation. In the Progress Party, we mainly share the Foreign Minister's assessment of the situation in Africa when he admits that there are economic reforms and increased political stability that have driven the impressive economic growth that we are now seeing in more and more African countries. When he also acknowledges that trade is more important than assistance, which was repeated now in the lines of action, this really implies a serious criticism of the way in which aid has been driven over the past 50–60 years, and a recognition of the development and aid policy of the Progress Party. Thank you for that! It is fine that we have granted customs freedom to the least developed countries, but I understand that Africans find it unreasonable that when a country rises and becomes a middle-income country, Norway rebuilds the customs barriers. Now is the time to grant customs freedom to middle-income countries as well. Let this be a challenge to the government. The Foreign Minister was also concerned about the situation in Colombia. The country has been under the control of the FARC terrorist organisation for almost 50 years, which has temporarily controlled up to one third of its territory. FARC comes from kidnapping, extortion, drug trafficking, prostitution and poaching. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that ‘the Government of Colombia and the FARC bear the primary responsibility for finding a negotiated solution’, he can easily be misunderstood. We're dealing with a legitimate government and a terrorist organization – FARC does not represent anyone. FARC has no constitutional rights and no legitimate requirements. Norway has joined Cuba to negotiate with so-called parties. It doesn't make the matter any better. Cuba is one of the few remaining washed-up communist dictatorships with total absence of human rights and democracy, and they are the best friends of the FARC terrorists. Here's the government on wrong track. FARC and the Cuban Communist regime are not our friends. The FARC and the Cuban Communist regime stand for the very opposite of the values and principles that we hold high. Let me also include in the range of those who support the government's work on increasing emphasis on sovereignty and resource management in the northern regions, and an ever closer Norwegian-Russian cooperation here. Norwegian tasks in the north areas must necessarily have implications for Norwegian defence policy – and have already had them. To name just one thing: the future F-35 fighter aircraft of the Air Force, together with impressive sea battle forces consisting of top modern frigates and corvettes, Coast Guard vessels and 14 new NH90 helicopters – as they are delivered – will be excellent tools to take care of Norwegian interests in the north. Here we also see that the Norwegian defence is perhaps more and more relevant to Norwegian everyday foreign policy. So a few words about European policy. In the future, the EU will only have an even greater impact on the Norwegian export industry, oil and gas. The EEA Agreement gives us access to a market with more than half a billion consumers. European drivers and gas subscribers pour hundreds of millions of dollars into the Norwegian economy every day. Most of Norwegian fish exports are held in European stomachs. Therefore, the EEA Agreement only becomes more and more important for the Norwegian economy. As we were in the line-up, the Workers' Party has chosen to ally itself with two political parties who both want to terminate the EEA Agreement – without having a clear alternative. It's incomprehensible to me, but fortunately that's not my problem. We'll see how it works in the autumn elections, but at least we have an alternative to the current government, an alternative that consists of four parties that agree to continue the EEA Agreement. This is the last general foreign policy debate in the United Kingdom during this period. There's a great deal of consensus, and we're going to hope that it'll continue after the big shot, no matter what.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e477	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation. What strikes me is that you need more than one hour's presentation to determine what is Norwegian involvement and the Norwegian foreign policy ambitions. Therefore, it may sound like a paradox that I am asking for even more information in some areas, but let it still be allowed to ask questions about this broad, almost universal, commitment. Can we in a world in transition make the necessary political and organisational priorities that time requires to be ‘hands on’ in the right place at the right time when necessary? A few days ago, Statoil decided to present the happy message that the oil from the Skrugard/Havis field is to be landed to North Cape. Statoil has simultaneously implemented its first LNG load via the northern sea route to Japan. We see what is happening in our neighbourhoods, in our northern regions as such, with a gigantic development, in a world that has a population growth that is relatively dramatic, and that makes the real challenges move in the direction: how is the world to be fed? How is the world to be supplied with energy? How is the world to be supplied with minerals? What we know, is that all of these three main factors we have in our vicinity. This means that there is a significant international and also national interest in our northern regions, our Arctic regions. In a time of financial crisis, we see that in terms of defence, security, our allies must limit their costs and expenditure in budgetary terms. It necessarily imposes strengthened and increased requirements for its own participation, its own priority and greater Norwegian presence in these areas that, regardless of what we ourselves wish to do, will be marked by a significant increase in activity in the coming years. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was, to a large extent, concerned with a kind of enhanced contact between Norway and China. At a diplomatic level, we get this presented today in the evening post – and documented by the renowned Hong Kong professor, Willy Lam, who explains that this is pure Chinese interest policy. Here I think the Foreign Minister could allow himself to go beyond his speaking time – even more than he did – to define whether the Chinese advance in our Arctic areas is to be considered problem-free. When we see China's footprint not least on Svalbard, the New Ålesund, and the desire to build the satellite, China's split-and-rule policy in Denmark, Greenland, and the construction of a giant embassy in Reykjavik – and which is much more likely to get foothold on Svalbard in order to develop Greenland – it can hardly be considered as completely trouble-free. Therefore, our northern regions and Arctic policies need a greater degree of consultation and attention. We know that the activity is increasing dramatically. We see that economic activity, participation and staffing in particularly demanding climatic areas are in place more or less before the traffic rules for policies are in place. We will soon see that there are several thousand individuals operating in our Arctic areas before navigation, before satellite communications, and before search and rescue are in place. This is an area that requires the full attention of the Storting, primarily through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to ensure that this is given an even greater priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e494	The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a very good and thorough presentation in over one hour. But one-hour seagoing speech is probably not possible to address all the world's conflicts and challenges. Nevertheless, the Right’s representatives focus most on the foreign minister’s not included in his statement. After all, it has become — almost every single debate after the foreign policy speeches — that the Right is most concerned with the issues that are not addressed in the presentation. After the entry into South Sudan, there are probably 193 countries in the United Nations, and it is clear that it is time for the Secretary of State of the United Nations to come to grips with all the world's countries and all the world's challenges. Today there are four weeks since we discussed Nordic cooperation here in the Chamber. I'm not going to repeat everything I said then, but I'm going to say a little bit the same thing. The point is that Nordic cooperation must be part of Norway’s foreign policy — and vice versa. Unfortunately, it has often been that we have discussed Nordic cooperation a little on the side of Norwegian foreign policy. It can't be like that. We need to talk about the strategic importance of the Nordic region in the international picture. The Nordic countries can play an important role in thinking about the axis of Europe-Germany, in particular, the Baltic Sea region, the Nordic countries, Russia – in my view, a very important axis and a very important approach to thinking. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister is still drawing up the Nordic dimension in the foreign policy picture. For the past two weeks, we have visited the Swedish and Finnish defence politicians at Stortinget. There have been very interesting visits, very interesting meetings. Defence policy is perhaps the area where Nordic cooperation is currently most dynamic and expansive. Who would have believed that for just a few years? In the Nordic cooperation, it was agreed that Nordic cooperation should focus on everything but defence and security policy. Now the situation is almost the opposite. The world is changing, and indeed Nordic cooperation is changing – very happy. Both the Swedes and Finns we visited were concerned with the relationship between Nordic defence cooperation and NATO. Here the Norwegian position must be crystal clear: there is nothing either – or. Norway’s NATO membership is inextricably one of the main pillars of Norwegian foreign and security policy. At the same time, we are in favour of increased Nordic defence cooperation, and that cooperation is becoming increasingly important in the time to come. Europe and the country of Europe must take greater responsibility for their territorial defence in due course. To put it like this, the U.S. will no longer pay as much of the party as they have traditionally done. At the same time, NATO has changed and now has 30 member countries. Then we're talking about a different NATO than when NATO had 12 member countries. One can often get a little bit of an idea -- when we talk about NATO -- that we're still talking about the NATO that we got established after World War II. NATO today is completely different and will in the years to come, change on. NATO is maritimely important – yes, absolutely essential – to us. So there's nothing either-- or. Defence and security will certainly become more important for us in Sweden, Finland and other Nordic countries than for example. Albania and Bulgaria, the last two countries are not members of NATO and Sweden and Finland — and certainly not. It is probably as unlikely that they will become NATO members as Norway will become EU member with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e507	First of all, I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough, good and interesting statement on Norwegian foreign policy. We live in a world of rapid change and where developments can quickly take unexpected directions. We have just seen that in Mali and Algeria, with the incident there. It is therefore a demanding task to interpret and understand what is happening and to put in place good strategies to safeguard Norway’s interests in a rapidly changing world. At the same time, this is a good opportunity to address some somewhat fundamental questions about Norwegian foreign policy and its direction. Since the Cold War ended around 1990, we have seen a clear turn in Norwegian foreign policy, away from – let's say – the classic realistically based policy, where security was at the heart of foreign policy, and over to a policy where idealism and global challenges got a much greater place, and almost became the core focus. Exposure policy, where Norway was to play a global role in peace, development and the environment, was a central part of this. This kind of policy often evolves. It can be carried out in periods of low voltage and where there is also some stability and predictability. Then it might have some justification. However, when times change quickly, when uncertainty increases — and the tension may also increase — this is a risky policy, because it quickly neglects the most fundamental of foreign policy, namely security, national interests and our own neighbourhoods. If the situation develops in a more demanding direction and one continues with an idealistic policy, it is a rather risky way to pursue foreign policy. Then one can move quickly from idealism to a more utopian policy, where one loses contact with the reality that builds up around one. This is exactly what we have experienced painfully from our own history can have quite disastrous consequences. That's why I think that's a positive move in the foreign minister's statement. It is a turning point towards a more realistic approach as a fundamental principle of foreign policy, where neighbourhoods, security and defence policy also have a greater place in foreign policy. This probably also means that, in the future, one has to have another – let's say – more critical look at a part of the idealistic policy, the engagement policy that is being pursued. We may not be able to deal with everything you want to do here, that there may be tougher priorities in terms of what is important, and what is not so important to do in terms of part of the global challenges and what role Norway can play. Over the Middle East and North Africa, there is now a wave of revolutions. In this wave there are many different directions and groupings, some of them more extreme and totalitarian than the regimes they've been fighting against. These countries have little or no experience with democracy, with the rule of law and with freedom. Our own European history tells us that revolutions are vulnerable and unstable events that can quickly take a different direction from what was intended – they can come out of control and end up in regimes a lot worse than the regimes they were set up to run. What we see in the Middle East today gives cause for concern and pessimism. I think it's a long way to go before many of these countries have built stable democracies. The danger is that this situation could destabilise the whole region and create a more explosive situation. In North Africa, we also have problems with weak and unstable states that give terrorist groups and extreme movements considerable space for action in some of their areas. Among other things, the terror we saw in Algeria was a consequence of this. One of the issues that was not addressed in the presentation is the relationship with Iran. Iran is a very important player in the region, with the extremism spreading from there, and also with regard to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I was a little surprised when I heard the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen talking about the Palestinian rockets from Hamas etc. Nearly one can be explained by the absence of policy solutions. Then we must almost remember that Hamas has torpedoed the Oslo Agreement, has said no to the recognition of Israel, has said no to the agreements that have already been concluded, and has not wanted to distance itself from the use of terror as an instrument. All of this is contrary to international law. I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister in this matter has been very clear that Israel is fully entitled to defend itself – on the basis of the self-defense of international law and the UN Charter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e530	The Minister for Foreign Affairs shall be commended for having spent time on trade in his bulky statement. I fully agree with the important point made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on page 16 of the statement: ‘In addition, the government wishes to achieve greater synergies between development assistance and Norwegian business.’ As so often before in the government's foreign policy, there is no match between words and actions. In the current budget, there is a cut of 100 million. kr for economic development – in a situation where a most recent growth has occurred exclusively in all other items. Increased trade increases wealth. The aim of the right is therefore to increase international trade by reducing barriers to trade. Transparency is important in order to provide access to markets and to contribute to development outdoors and at home. Nevertheless, it is important for the Right to strike a balance between protecting its own products and transparency in trade policy. That is why we have wanted some import protection for agricultural products, and unlike the government, we want to improve the balance. Norwegian fishing interests must not be sacrificed on the altar of the government's internal disputes. Right-wing efforts to support work towards a new WTO trade regime. A new trade regime could provide more poor countries with duty-free access to the Norwegian market under the same conditions as the MUL countries. This will be important from a development point of view. Norway must become a driving force in order to reduce barriers to trade in international forums such as the WTO. I am pleased that the EU and the United States now seem to come closer to a trade agreement, and I believe it is important that Norway is linked to such an agreement under the auspices of EFTA. EFTA is an important venue for new free trade agreements, but it cannot be the only venue for free trade agreements. As far as I know, Norway currently has no active negotiations on bilateral free trade agreements. Negotiations with Colombia and Cuba are under way, and we have no negotiations with African countries. It's a sin of failure. Norway has benefited from increased trade and such agreements contribute positively. Bilateral trade agreements are and will be important tools for a new government until a new WTO agreement is in place. BRIK, MIST and CIVETS are all relatively new concepts. Such abbreviations may sound funny, but they carry the word for a new reality. They warn that stronger emerging economies are going to be an important part of the world around us. Without bilateral investment agreements, so-called BITs or GDP, we are at risk of being put on the sideline. Right will be a driver to get more of these in place; the government is a sink. Bilateral investment agreements provide an institutional framework for competent and developmental capital to find the way to emerging economies. It surprises me that the government is behind this development, and that bilateral investment agreements have not been signed with a number of emerging economies. Norwegian representation abroad is important. Our embassies help to promote the interest in Norwegian goods and services, and they help foreign actors find their way to Norway. It's a fact that even in our digital world, human contact is important in business. It is gratifying to see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has strengthened its presence in recent years, among other things. Brazil, India, Indonesia, China and Russia. It supports the Right, but there have been a number of changes in the front edge that are incomprehensible. In 2007, Norway put down important consulates and opened ‘aid embassies’ — in the absence of a better word. For the Right, it is very important to be present where Norway has strong industrial interests or where there is a significant desire from the Norwegian industry for presence. For the last 50 years, we have witnessed large and wide increases in wealth in the world. Countries with the greatest positive development have achieved this through more open trade, increased access to new markets and market economy development. Right-wing wants an open trade policy, where the community of nations interacts on equal terms. History has shown us that trade creates a better world, a world with less conflict. It's a right way to go – even for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e557	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough presentation to the Stortinget on what we see in front of us, and the way we are going to deal with the situation. My conclusion is that we live in many ways in a foreign policy break-up period. I think there's a reason to underline that. It's demanding, because we're now experiencing a change of pace in a number of areas, and we're also seeing how power moves to economies that are in dire straits, where there are cultural and social contradictions, and where societies weave together. This requires attitudes on our part, and it also requires answers. I am also very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs strongly addressed both human rights factors and minority groups around – it is important to focus up to now. Extremism and antisemitism, I think we must also go even deeper into it, and both ourselves and the nation must show attitudes to these things. It is a threat of violence, it is a threat of terror, right-wing extremism is growing in Europe and elsewhere – all these things must be taken a long way away from them. We have to resist this in all forms, and we have to show attitudes to it through words and actions. The answer is humanity, but that's also the way we show what values we stand for. I was a little surprised that someone from the opposition has raised some criticism of the mention of the northern regions. I just want to remind you that this government has put the northern regions on its agenda as the most important thing. I would also like to stress that the previous government – the Bondevik government – had the northern regions as one of several. We still need to show that we take responsibility, even in our neighbourhoods – we do – and we also need to show that we have the capacity and the willingness to handle our sovereignty in Norwegian areas and exercise our authority where we have jurisdiction. We must counteract the impression of the Arctic as an area of rivalry and strife. It's very important to us that we act properly in these areas. That is why we must work systematically to achieve a unified understanding of the fundamental rules of the game, and we must show constructive cooperation. We're doing that to the greatest extent now through Arctic Council, where we're showing good cooperation. We have to use the possibilities we have in such a forum. We also need to raise much higher environmental and climate levels and how we manage those values in these areas in the future. I also refer here to the statement, where the Minister for Foreign Affairs went into the increased funds we are now putting into these areas, including. climate research and the Present in Tromsø. We have things to point to both in terms of cooperation with Russia, cod quotas, and that we get up these big quotas in the area and can manage them properly. It is alarming to see the major climate change in the area. We see the history of the police, the Arctic, the measurements that started in 1979, and what is the result today. Here we have to look forward so that the greenhouse effect does not blow us out completely. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed that during the presidency period we are now going into, we are presenting a climate action plan for this development we are seeing, and that it is going to happen in a proper, environmentally friendly and proper way in this area. I think that is very important. It's not just about oil conservation, it's about how we manage the values that lie in these areas. Knowledge, knowledge building and value creation are important. We also see that other nations now have a big look at the north and what's happening there. What research shows is that there are very large energy resources in the area. We know that we have an increase on the energy side, an expected increase of 30 pst. in our energy export, and that this huge increase is also expected for 30 years to come. That's exactly why we have to have long-term and comprehensive global perspective, even when we're going to manage our resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e572	Let me also start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a very good account, both in terms of width and content, and in terms of identifying challenges and opportunities, and I have to say that there is nothing left for his predecessors. On the contrary, those shoes fill our current foreign minister at least in the same way as their predecessors, and perhaps with even more ‘population’ if you can use that term. I think it's good to have these kinds of discussions, because it challenges us on the opportunities we have – and on some challenges that others have. After spending some years at Stortinget, I have had the pleasure of traveling around and visiting other countries, and there are two countries that have made a very big impression on me. One is Afghanistan. Traveling to Afghanistan is like traveling to another dimension, where it's about surviving from day to day, taking care of your family, seeing if you have the opportunity to get your kids into school. In their everyday lives, they face issues that others of us do not know about. Another country, which is in many ways on the level of Afghanistan, is Laos, a country I have also enjoyed visiting. Laos has the same challenges in many ways, but what fascinated me when we were there was the joy of life they had. They have a joy of life and a relationship that I think unfortunately we – in our wealth and credit cards – have left, because we don't need it, we get out of the trouble when it's on. And it does something to us. That's why I think it's a little sad to see that so few are involved in this debate that's so important, because it says something about what mentality we have, it says a lot about our attitudes. We are in many ways a Bør Børson nation, who has drawn the gold card and got gold bars – not just once, but time and time again – and when we discuss limitations and opportunities, we do it from a completely different perspective than many others. I think this should be a waker when we stand here and discuss how we look at things further. When we discuss problems with road standards, kindergartens and such things, others – with all sorts of respect – are struggling significantly more than we are. And when we criticize the range of foods on Rimi and Rema, there are others who have bigger challenges than this. So that's, say, okay to think about a little bit -- where you're going, and where you want to go. Then I think, to go a little bit further, it's good that you've also focused on the United Nations here. I see that the government is very clear that the UN is the primary tool for doing things in the best possible way. So you might say that the UN is the least bad thing about the best we have today. At the same time, it is probably a fact that the UN too is struggling. Syria, on which the Foreign Minister came to a close, shows that even the best we have, does not always work. So what do we do? Shall we say silently that we have tried, we have done as best we can, but sorry – no one will listen to us? This happens because different major interests somehow neutralize each other, and the great loser then becomes Syria's population. Can we look at that? Or can we hide behind that there will be increased appropriations? What is important is at least that we look at alternative communication corridors and focus on the possibilities of assisting the Syrian population in every way possible, because they deserve better than the situation they are currently in. Also, we've been exposed to things where we've been addicted to help from others, and we've got it, and we got out of it. There has been talk about the northern regions, and I hope I misunderstand my colleague Mr Nordtun: I hope he does not have a concern for the northern regions, for they are to be taken care of, there should be no doubt. I see that the Minister of Foreign Affairs also describes the effort that has been made, but what I miss in that effort is ‘negligence’ to use such an expression. It is true that large investments have been made, but one is concerned when large parts of the investments are located somewhere in the workshop and are not present. Our current foreign minister has also held a different position in the government, so he knows a lot about the defence and the defence role. I belong to those who think it's a tragic story that our Coast Guard, that our frigates, still haven't got the helicopters in place. It has something to do with reach, with possibilities, with sovereignty. I have always believed that when a nation signed a contract with a supplier, it committed it, but in the case of NH Industries’ ability to follow up their contract with Norway, this is a tragic example of some form of bad craft – not necessarily political, but from the supplier’s side. And it does something about the possibilities. Because when we equip the Coast Guard with the tool they've asked for, because it's going to enable them to do their job, and they don't get it, it obviously hits the quality the Coast Guard wants to stand for. Even though the Norwegian Coast Guard is unique and does a fantastic job, they would have done the job even better if they had the tool that Stortinget intended for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e590	I have noted with satisfaction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, underlines the importance of foreign policy in the field of industrial policy. In concrete terms, it is now a priority task for Norwegian foreign service to serve Norwegian business interests abroad, not only because we are totally dependent on having a business that creates values and that is able to claim itself in an international market, but also because Norwegian business can and should contribute to a positive development in other parts of the world. The Minister for Foreign Affairs naturally stressed the growing economies of Asia in his presentation, and in fact it is such that the growth of the Asian market is well on the way to compensating for the failure of markets in Europe and the United States. The success of Norwegian business is increasingly dependent on the ability to offer goods and services requested in the Asian market. The globalisation and internationalisation of Norwegian business underlines the importance of trade policy, which was a long underdeveloped area of Norwegian foreign policy. It is all the more gratifying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Trade and Industry join forces with the other departments with a view to coordinating their efforts to market Norway abroad. In this context, there may be grounds for drawing up the EFTA cooperation. Through the EFTA, Norway has 24 free trade agreements with 33 countries. At the moment, we are negotiating with countries in Central America, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Russia, including Belarus and Kazakhstan, Vietnam, Algeria and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Free trade agreements are not simple and uncontroversial in all. It's enough to mention Belarus and Colombia in this respect. However, these agreements provide a framework for trade cooperation between participating countries, thus also underpinning economic and cultural relations between countries. The task of EFTA has been to reflect the EU to a large extent, so that our business life is provided with the same framework conditions as business in EU countries. Sometimes EFTA is ahead of the EU, and sometimes not. As many people before me in this debate, I have noted with interest that the EU and the United States are now talking about free trade. Without me thinking that an agreement is imminent, there is reason to follow these conversations with awake eyes, because that means that neither the United States nor the EU now regard the agricultural policy contradictions as insurmountable obstacles. In this context, let me stress that the liberalisation of world trade must and should have its limitations. Through free trade agreements with other countries, we have from Norway both asserted and made demands for democratic development and professional rights, and as one of the largest and most important contributors to the work of the ILO, it is only right and fair that we strike a blow to decent work throughout the world. We are increasingly seeing and experiencing that workers' wage and working conditions have become a competitive element in international trade, particularly with regard to cross-border trade in services. Well, some countries can protect their own workers against this type of competition. In Norway, for example, we have done this through comprehensive measures against social dumping. However, this underlines the need for better international legislation in this area. I am therefore pleased that ESA has clarified the conflict between the ILO and EU public procurement legislation, but it does not remove the impression that workers' rights have unfortunately become a balancing point in the development of the EU's internal market. As a foreigner, we do not participate in decision-making processes in the EU, but precisely because the work area is part of the EEA Agreement – I would ask the Progress Party to note that – it gives us some influence. This is why it is so important that we unite forces with those who work to improve the rights of workers in our part of the world – as a counterpart of an unimpeded cross-border competition that does not create but moves jobs, and that over time impairs the pay and working conditions of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e607	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for including in his statement and in his speech today the alarming developments in the field of human rights in Europe. It's true that the picture is complex, but there can be no doubt that we are now witnessing historical setbacks, among other things. in the fight against extremism and xenophobia, in the case of minorities and their rights, and in the defence of central rights such as freedom of expression. This article is a worry message. I am among the great representatives who get to take part in the work of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. The core of the Council's work is to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights. In many Member States these values are under attack. We need to see no further than our neighbouring country Russia. On 25 January, the Russian Parliament almost unanimously supported a legislative proposal which prohibits the neutral or positive mention of homosexuals. The proposal needs to be adopted twice more before it becomes legal, but there is reason to fear that it will happen. Neutral statements of the type ‘there are people who fall in love with one of the same sex’ will be punishable by fines of up to 500 000 rubles, approximately NOK 90000. Similar laws have already been adopted in several Russian regions, including: St. Petersburg. Arrests have already been carried out on a similar basis. Amnesty International has documented a gradual restriction of freedom of expression in Russia. The arrest of Pussy Riot is one example. Another is that organisers of film festivals and other public events by and for LHBT persons have been attacked by violent protesters without obtaining the necessary protection from the police, while not allowing peaceful demonstrations to defend LHBT rights. It is uncertain how the new law will be practiced, for it is unprecise in its wording. But in its ultimate consequence, it can no longer be allowed to mention homophilis in any public place in Russia. Similar legislative proposals are under consideration in the Ukrainian National Assembly, and in Moldova such laws have been passed at regional level and subsequently declared unconstitutional. There are also discussions in other European countries about LHBTs, which give unpleasant associations to the 1930s and 1940s. Some political parties and some politicians play prejudice against gays to get upset. In Hungary, the far-right party Jobbik speaks of ‘adversaries’ in Georgia and Albania, leading politicians have declared homophilis as ‘unwanted’. In the Alekseyev case against Russia, the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg concluded that there is no basis for claiming that open debate has a negative impact on children. And yet, such a argument is used in as different countries as Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Hungary and Ukraine. And while in Hungary there are right-wing extremes that are most active in the fight against human rights for homosexuals, there is an alliance of the Orthodox Church and the Communist Party that appears to be the most negative in Moldova. We have left behind two decades of continuous progress and increased respect for LHBT people in Europe. This development continues in many places. There appears to be a majority in both the United Kingdom and France for gender-neutral marriage laws. At the same time, we see that the trend is broken. In several countries, fundamental rights are under attack. In a Europe of economic difficulties and increased social tensions, minority groups are at risk. The Council of Europe's previous Human Rights Commissioner, Thomas Hammarberg, has documented extensive human rights violations against LHBT people in Europe. His report leaves no doubt: as a group, LHBT individuals are particularly vulnerable. A group that is historically ridiculed, stigmatized, invisible and persecuted, now experience new setbacks, and the setbacks are real. The legislative proposals in Russia and Ukraine are open attacks on freedom of expression, assembly and organisation, the very foundation of all other rights work. So it's not about what we can call gay rights, such as the right to marriage, family and protection from discrimination, but about retaining fundamental human rights as the right to express itself. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned about this issue, and I want to take the opportunity to thank you for that. At the same time, I would like to make a request. In the dialogue on these issues, we need to be even more clear that this is about fundamental freedom, such as equality of law and the right to political participation, not about rights for sexual minorities – that it is about fundamental human rights for all, not about special rights for a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e628	I'll first be allowed to sign off for nice speeches with good words from the representative Ellingen, and not least to say that it sounded like a sort of echo of Dag Hammarskjöld, who reminded us that the UN was created not to take us to heaven, but to protect us from hell. I guess that's still a statement that stands by. It was also expressed a commitment to people in many places in the world. Since Laos was mentioned, I would like to mention that it is one of the countries with which we strengthen our cooperation through our increased focus on the ASEAN region, and that we both strengthen bilateral relations and relations with the ASEAN organisation to support the building of institutions that also involve the promotion of democracy and peaceful relations between Asian countries. So that's a good example of it. I would also like to take the opportunity to say about developments in Europe, which many people have experienced — especially Eastern Europe — that I am, first of all, fully sharing the concern about what is happening in Ukraine, which Eriksen Soreide raised earlier today. The fact that EFTA has an agreement which it does not have has nothing to do with the fact that EFTA negotiated its agreement in the past. Many of the negative developments have occurred later, so there is some logic that the EU is waiting for something that EFTA had previously done. But we have a great commitment to Ukraine. We're going to spend an estimated 40 million dollars. in actions to promote human rights and democracy there. I think it's important to understand that this part of Europe is now in the middle of a geopolitical drama that you can roughly say is between east and west. Ukraine is going in the opposite direction to what we wanted. As far as Georgia is concerned, we are actively trying to work for Georgia to stay on the course they have been for a long time. There I am optimistic, but we have addressed the same questions that were mentioned here. And since Azerbaijan is here, I want to say two things I think it's important to say about Azerbaijan. One is that it is a long way to go until they fulfil their own responsibilities with regard to the OSCE and the human rights requirements of the Council of Europe. I have had the opportunity to tell President Aliev on several occasions, and we must remain clear about that. Also there are laws that we're skeptical about, and we're telling you about that. At the same time, it is a country that has indicated that they do not want to join this new Eurasian Union, but in geopolitical terms look westwards and, among other things, look. link its trade and energy policy relations to the west. I think that's good. So you have to have a complex understanding of a country like Azerbaijan. The statements that were referred to in Today's Business have probably also been a reminder to some extent that irony should be used with journalists, but there is no doubt that it is correct to understand the whole of this. Then I will strongly stress to Haugli's important posts that we share that concern fully. This concerns the threat to human rights for all people, but it is also a point to highlight, for example: sexual minorities to clarify just that. I invite all those who are concerned with combating antisemitism, which I am very committed to, to also engage in the situation of space people, for other minorities and for sexual minorities. We see that there are new alliances between strongly conservative environments with both Christian and Muslim backgrounds that find each other, in the strangest alliance – from the outside – but that aim to fight back on progress that we have had on that front. It is important to stand up, and there I allow myself to say that Norway is in the forefront enough. So to Skovholt Gitmark's points about trade policy. I have a fundamental belief in commerce as something that is good. It does in the long run all countries richer, and it is good for a global competition to facilitate it. I am much more concerned with multilateral trade regimes than with bilateral ones. I think we should take care of the EEA and we should promote the WTO. What I can advertise now, which is well new, is that the government is going to enter into what is going on in the WTO, and, while we are waiting for progress in the Doha Round, go into so-called plurilateral agreements with the countries that will go further. It's not an ideal situation, but better than the option no progress. That's our lead on that front. It is true that a budget line such as the 'nutrition promotion' has fallen. But that money has been transferred to Norfund. The strengthening of Norfund is greater than the entry ‘nutrition promotion’, so here we have put action behind words, also in that part of the U.D. budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e647	I have just a few comments on things that have been said in the debate. The representative from SV was in the Progress Party. He thought we should have said that we want comprehensive Norwegian military power in Mali. That's not a correct quote. We have always said that we wanted Norway to contribute in a relevant way in Mali. The word "comprehensive" gives a completely different idea of what we've been saying. The representative, Gustavsen, gave the impression that we were not a supporter of Norwegian food aid and a link between Norwegian industry and development. She said we don't see the gain of it. We see the gain of it. We know that it can be effective. I even suggested that it should continue. The summit had a very important formulation when he spoke of countering extremism in all its forms. It was a bit of the same foreign minister who had just arrived. Haugli had a very good speech on this and the worrying features we see in parts of Europe. We share that concern. It's serious. It gives a signal about something more, for some groups are picked out once, other groups another time. You also see alliances – we see them, among other things. by the UN Human Rights Council. We'll see it elsewhere. I once allowed myself, so naive I was, to record gay rights in Saudi Arabia. It was maybe to be a little bit preconceived. I was told that the type of sexual orientation did not exist in the country. There was basically no basis for a parliamentarian from Norway to address such questions. I hope you never, never get in such a situation ashore closer to us. But it's very worrying. I think we must make politicians responsible and be clear, as the representative Haugli and others are, in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE and in all our meetings with the officials of these states.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e658	Since I have the floor first, I would also like to make a brief comment to Mr Haugli's speech on the development of the situation of the LHBT population, especially in Eastern Europe and our neighbourhood. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs took up the thread and took up the challenges in the greatest seriousness. Nor should it be necessary to appeal to different alliances in groups that fight for one or the other, because it is all about fighting discrimination and fighting for human rights. It justifies all the fights, whether in the field of space, antisemitism or LHBT, mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In general, we can say that there is too little attention to the development we are now seeing in Eastern Europe related to the treatment of homosexuals. Given the closeness we have, because these are actually our close partners in many arenas and in our own neighborhood, it's too stupid that we have to arrange football-EM and those kinds of events to get a little bit of insight into what's moving towards those groups. I wanted to say it first, but I took the floor to talk about the evolution in Myanmar. From year to year, Norway’s relationship with the various regions and countries referred to is like the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Stortinget. With a step-by-step approach to the statements from year to year, there is a small adjustment, a small trick here or there, in the changes. But just in the case of Myanmar, it's pretty special. If we had only three years ago known about the situation today, we would have said that it was one of the best scenarios that it was at all possible to fantasize about -- and that just three years ago. It has also made it very clear to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. However, I see a need to complement the Foreign Minister in relation to the remaining challenges in Myanmar. It has been a very positive development, also in a democratic direction. But Myanmar still does not have a elected parliament in a democratic sense. There is still considerable uncertainty about the future framework conditions for media policy and freedom of expression. We still do not have a democratic constitution, and we still do not have constitutional, popular governance of military forces. They live their own lives. There is an enormous need to build economic development. It was one of the issues addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which includes the whole population — to end the huge division of society: the military and their friends, with the privileges they have, and the rest of the population. So the question is, how do we relate to it today? The Foreign Minister compares Myanmar's position today with other countries in the region. I heard that he said on the NRK the same night that the statement took place, that one has for the longest time passed the ‘the point of no return’. Yeah, that's possible, that's possible. But what's special about Myanmar is that Myanmar right now is in a raging development. There's a dynamics there that's going on right now. That is why we have a historic opportunity to contribute to shaping the future of Myanmar – today. When we look at the other countries in the same region, there have also been such upheavals once in a while, but then it is cemented again to some sort of iron grip. The prevailing forces somehow stop the development at one point or another. So the fight for free Myanmar, with democracy and justice for its 55 million inhabitants, is happening right now. That is why I would recommend to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government that further development be required, because this is now decided before the new system and the new structures are re-established. Conditions should now be imposed and the instruments available — whether debt or penalty imposed temporarily — used to promote further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e671	This debate has confirmed the broad upsurge of the policy that the Minister for Foreign Affairs drew up in his statement. That's good. We should not ignore the reservations that have been notified. But they are, after all, all in the margin of the broad consensus. I particularly welcome the broad support expressed in the work on human rights, the protection of minorities and the work against discrimination and persecution. The crisis in Europe has led to this monster again raising his head, including here. Fortunately, here we have an institutional framework that is important in the fight against these forces – the Council of Europe, the OSCE and EU cooperation. These are important institutions, to which the representative Håkon Haugli also referred – the work of the Council of Europe. I think it is very good that the members of these various international parliamentary organisations also participate and bring the debate from there into the foreign debate. Something else has also happened in EU cooperation that is important for building and consolidating democracy across Europe, namely in the Balkans. When I was at the meeting with the heads of the European committees in the EU countries in Dublin recently, where Norway became an observer, I sat on the observation bench with representatives from Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro. These countries have been shown to be on their way in. Some have begun negotiations, others are in the pit of departure. From before, Slovenia has been listed as a member, and until the summer, Croatia comes in as a member. Then the last corner of Europe is integrated into European cooperation. This was also part of the Nobel Committee's justification for awarding the EU Peace Prize last year. We are now reading about daily growing contacts and cooperation between Belgrade and Kosovo, despite the disagreement on status. This is also a result of Serbia’s desire to integrate into EU cooperation. So some comments: Representative Morten Höglund expressed joy at what was in the presentation on the importance of commerce and business and to link industrial development to development aid. It wasn't that natural a few years ago, said Höglund. Then I think we'll go a few more years back. I believe that under this government, in fact, very much has been done to bring business growth, growth thinking, into development cooperation. We have had the big news of corporate social responsibility in a globalised world: climate, conflict and capital. Norwegian development policy in an amended space of action. We've had a lot of effort on Norfund and energy development in countries. I believe that we have renewed and should continue to renew development policy – more investment driven, where investments are extended from important efforts for education and health to energy and resource management, oil for development is an important step, and food security. Free trade agreements have been affected. EU and US negotiations will be a challenge for EFTA. We have to discuss that and see if we can get started, too. It is also discussed in EFTA to start free trade agreements with several countries in sub-Saharan Africa, where there is a strong economic development. Ivar Kristiansen raised the question of whether we engage too many places, and whether we have the capacity to do so. There I heard something rarely heard in these days, namely a little echo from the old by: concerns from the Right about the state stretching too much. But it was perhaps more of a rhetorical grip. Then he expressed concern about China's interest in the Arctic – is it trouble free, was the question he raised. We should never be naive to other countries, neither small nor large neighbouring countries, but we want a China that behaves – we should call it – normally, we also have to treat it as a normal country. I think that's important. So finally Ellingen's reflection on our problems in the light of the experiences we make when we visit other countries. I think we can all share that. It will be exciting to hear if it can lead to a little bit more low-precision when it comes to the Norwegian complaint, also here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e688	I would also like to thank you for a very good debate and again, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen has just said, that there is a very broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. The disagreements that may be, are just there to make it even clearer and even better, I think. This is good for all of us in the long run. I feel that it is a recognition that we need to understand a world of fundamental change, that we need to adapt our instrument – in general and for my part the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – to the active promotion of Norwegian interests, including business interests, that we need to have a value-based foreign policy and stand up to our principles, values and standards both in traditional and new forums and formats. That's very good. I wanted to make a few comments about Torkil Åmland's comments on whether this is now a more real political analysis, and that utopianism is now abandoned. I would like to stress that I have experienced that during the entire period of this government, since 2005, we have been talking about interests. We've been talking about a realistic understanding of the world. I think you get a lot further if you assume that things are like they are, and that power relationships are like they are, and have the consequences they have. But there's no difference between that and being engaged, it's actually the opposite. We promote our interests in being engaged. We promote our interests by the fact that countries and actors we are engaged for other reasons are interested in the same areas as we are. Any Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs, regardless of colour and background, meeting with either the EU or the United States will largely focus on Norway’s engagements in places such as Colombia, Myanmar, the Middle East, Afghanistan, etc. This is a well-known phenomenon, and I'll give some credit to one of my predecessors, Jan Petersen, who came to that realization, and then stood up with it and said that his belief that it was now the neighbourhoods that applied, came quickly in relief when the big ones out there wanted to talk first and foremost about questions like Colombia and the Middle East with him. So there's a long line in it as well. It's also an important point to say that we're taking the principles and values into our engagement policy. Since Hope was concerned with Myanmar, I believe that Myanmar has taken basic positive steps – I also heard the representative, Håbreek, said – and that it is a long way to go. We're making demands. We have established a dialogue with the reform environment in Myanmar, but I would first like to say that within the new governance we have both more and less reformable environments. The President clearly belongs to the reform-friendly environment and has a circle of people around him as a pusher for reform. We almost don't have to make demands on them, because they come to us all the time with recordings, ideas, suggestions, questions and things where they want our advice in the reform they're running. That's what we're doing, but we're doing it in a slightly different language than the language "set requirements." I think that's useful and right. Myanmar's president comes here in a few weeks, and then we're going to have many opportunities to talk more with him and his followers about just those questions. Then Peter N. Myhre was busy with what we do in Colombia, which was supposed to be problematic because we ally ourselves with Cuba, and we contribute to peace with an organization like FARC. Then it's just to say that there, like anywhere else, there are the parties who want to. The elected President of the People's Republic of Santos wants this Norwegian commitment. If he didn't want it, there wouldn't have been any commitment, because then it wouldn't have been possible, but it's a desire for someone else. It is to a large extent the parties who came to us, not we who came to them, and then we believe that it is right to take that opportunity. It is strongly supported by the United Nations, and it is supported by prominent international actors, for example: The United States, we're doing it. So I think that's right. In the end, I was challenged by the representative of Kristiansen to put the northern regions even higher on the priority list. The challenge is that it's at the top. That's the government's first priority in singular, so I'm just not sure how to do it. But at least I can assure the House that it will remain the most important area of effort for this government, both in the period we have now left, and after we are re-elected for the harvest. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e705	I want to use the opportunity to thank you for a good and interesting debate. I will also, as I always do in these debates, take the opportunity to commend the representative Håkon Haugli, both for the contribution he holds, and for the commitment he shows – not only here in the Chamber, but also in the Council of Europe. We're all very grateful for that. Then you might say a little bit of a joke that if you were to take myrlis's call on the floor, it wouldn't be strange to have the debate here in the Chamber, because the opposition obviously shouldn't talk about topics that aren't already involved in the presentation. But that's the opposition's privilege to do, and I think it actually benefits the debate. I think the Foreign Minister also appreciates that themes other than those for which he made room in his presentation, also give room here. I chose not to mention Mali and possibly military involvement in Mali in my introduction, given that there was a question in the Question Time yesterday. However, since it has been the subject of some representatives here, I would just like to stress what is the obvious starting point for the Right: we have said all the way that we want to assess that Norway is going to participate with a military contribution. In that case, we will have to see when the time comes, what that contribution will be and what the framework it will be in. It's been a prerequisite all the way – I guess that's for the government as well. We have been very clear that we want Norway to assess it seriously if it does, as opposed to, for example, Norway. SV and the Center Party, which has always been negative, until now. What has been important for us to stress is that there is a difference between participating in an EU training mission and participating in a UN operation. I mentioned in the Questionnaire yesterday the obvious differences in the fact that the European Union’s training mission is a small strength of about 10 %. 500 people. There we could participate with a limited contribution within something we can and are trained for, and as we do in Afghanistan today. It would also be a very good opportunity to make a contribution in a Nordic framework, along with some of our closest allies and neighbors, who we train and practice with almost daily. Nevertheless, we have allowed ourselves not to say no now to any UN operation, but to raise some issues, which I expect the government will also do. I believe that this is the only responsible and proper thing, just as you do every time you consider sending out Norwegian forces. The issues we have raised are about the mandate for the UN operation, where it is known that these are often challenges. It's about commitment rules, and it's about what kind of framework a United Nations operation gets – whether it's primarily an exit strategy for France to turn this African force into a United Nations operation, or whether it's a different situation. We have also dealt with key questions such as what we should do in that case. There is a great difference between providing a department and providing staff officers, for example: Of course, there is also a question of which command and control system will apply. All of these are questions that have led us to say that we need to consider more carefully whether it is the right context for Norway to participate in. In that case, the government must come back to Stortinget with it in the usual way for consultations, but we have thus allowed ourselves to problematize some of the aspects of any Norwegian participation in a United Nations operation, which we believe is sensible and justifiable to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e720	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e726	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e734	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement at the Stortinget meeting on 12 February 2013 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-14.ana.ud1246e765	The current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
