ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e36	The representative Morten Wold, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e53	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e60	Thank you for that, on this traditional Lucia day. It's important to think about traditions in our day. It is only a follow-up to the financial position reflected in this position. Therefore, I will limit myself and just say a few words related to the setting. As a result of the majority decisions in the financial position, there will be some changes in the framework areas we are dealing with here today, including: on the dividend side and the transfers related to State pension funds abroad. In addition to that, we will say from the Christian People's Party that the Cultural Memory Fund, for which we have been a champion, is something we still want to see in the future. That is why it is mentioned from our side in the setting. As is also evident from the suspension, there is a slight disagreement with the Directorate for Economic Management and the efficiency process to be followed. Finally, there is a unanimous vote on the power to raise sovereign loans. As you know, it is not as problem-free in all other countries. So briefly I do it and recommend it with that committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e77	I'm not going to hold on up here for too long either. Besides, it has its natural constraint, since it's a five-minute post. There are two aspects I want to highlight in this debate. First, I would like to express my joy at the fact that an overall opposition stops the government's plans to centralize the Directorate of Economic Management, DFØ. As we refer to in our remarks, this is a directorate where the service is largely space-dependent and thus suitable to be located in different parts of the country, as today. But the government ignores the consequences of regional policy if a significant number of government jobs are moved. We also want the efficiency of the directorate, but this must be possible without going into the well-established decentralised office structure. The Right Party and the Advance Party are eager to remove these state jobs in District Norway, but now the government must take the clear signal that the majority of the population gives in the vote and this debate, with regard to the establishment of the government that comes to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget. The second thing I want to comment on on this occasion is the increased use of oil money by the government, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, adding up, and that can affect Norwegian jobs. I allow myself in this context to make some quotations: ‘The high level of costs and vulnerability to a fall in the oil price indicate caution in increasing the use of oil revenues. Since February, the crown has weakened. [[...]] The exchange rate is unstable, and the moods in the foreign exchange markets can change rapidly. If one made a clear change of pace in the use of money over the state budget, there would be a danger that the crown will strengthen again." The quotation is drawn from the additional proposal of the Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-Registration and entered in the pen by the Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen. Thus, the same government managed to increase its oil money use in the 2014 budget. Another quote: ‘The Stockholm Committee proposes to limit the oil activity and the use of oil money in order to mitigate the vulnerability of the Norwegian economy to oil dependence. These proposals must be taken seriously.’ And on the other hand, «The transition to a less oil-dependent economy will be more difficult to deal with if the phase-in of oil money into the economy is too high now.» These words belong to the chairman of the finance committee, Hans Olav Syversen, and were uttered just about a week ago. Today he is voting for increased use of oil money. My last quote here today: ‘It is good that the government takes the two-way economy seriously and will make Norway less oil dependent.’ However, the left is critical that government action is not taken immediately. This was Terje Breivik's comment when the government of Stoltenberg II presented its growth package to the mainland industry in May this year. Today he is also voting for increased use of oil money. In short, honor the Christian People's Party and the Left so that they, together with us red-greens, put their feet down and prevent the centralization of the government from DFOE. I hope and believe that this is not the last time we agree to stop blue-blue politics. This promises well. The seven initially said something about the importance of traditions, and I have no objection to this being a tradition. But I'm less impressed with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which despite statements in the very opposite direction, supports the Solberg government in making Norway more oil dependent than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e125	The Ministry of Finance, with its underlying offices, is responsible for contributing to the professionally sound basis for decision-making in economic policy and budgetary matters. The proposal shows that, in particular, priority tasks in 2014 will be: work on national pension funds legislative work in the financial market area to protect the tax base for sustainable development and climate These priorities are supported by the right. The purpose of the State pension fund abroad is to support government saving for the financing of pension expenditure of the population and to support long-term considerations in the use of State petroleum revenues. Long-term and sound management of the Fund helps to ensure that the petroleum industry can benefit both current and future generations. The value of the State pension fund abroad is now estimated at 4 863 billion in the supplementary proposal. kr at the end of 2013 and SEK 5 340 billion. kr at the end of 2014. In other words, there are great values, and that means that there is a great responsibility for managing them. The state pension fund abroad means a lot to the future well-being. Much is happening in the financial market area. On the one hand, this is a follow-up to EEA obligations, and on the other hand, it is a work to modernise legislation. The work is divided between the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Norway and forms an important framework for the financial industry. The financial industry framework in Norway is important because both the industry itself and the operators it serves. The financial industry has approximately 40,000 employees, 5 000 billion. kr in government, and it is indeed the largest taxpayer in mainland Norway. I also record that yesterday the Minister of Finance announced that she required the banks to build up a so-called countercyclical capital buffer of 1 pst. This is in line with the recommendations of the Bank of Norway, and it should make banks more robust. Taxes largely finance Velferds-Norway, and therefore it is important to protect the tax base. Tax evasion, on the other hand, would weaken the basis of the welfare state. It is likely that if a society experiences extensive tax evasion, it also weakens the trust and loyalty of the tax system. It is therefore good that the Tax Administration has worked to detect tax evasion as one of its main areas. The approach taken to limit interest rebates for companies in a community of interests is part of this work. This should prevent multinational groups from moving profits out of the country and thereby undermining the tax base in Norway. The last priority area notified is sustainable development and climate work. The government’s economic policy is based on the principle of sustainable development. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the regulation of environmental policy charges and analyses economic aspects of environmental policy. This important work is supported by the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e168	The matter of random expenditure and revenue may not be the case that creates the most interest outside the Financial Committee. For me, it becomes interesting when I read the government platform, where it among other things. read: ‘The government will base its policy on the objective of making the most efficient use of Community resources. Society must be less bureaucratic. [[...]] More power and authority must be left to the community. The Government will counter waste through public funds and give high priority to increased efficiency.’ With that as a hindrance, the matter immediately becomes more interesting, and not least when I read the last year's budget proposal, where it is among other things. read: «Public expenditure represents a significantly higher share of GDP in Norway than in the euro area.» This development has continued over time and was reinforced under the red-green government. It is a development which is not sustainable in the long term and which does not provide an efficient use of Community funds in a good way. Our mandate as representatives in this Chamber is precisely to obtain maximum well-being out of each krona. Tess founder Erik Jølberg said in a comment to Technik Ukeblad: «Documentation, project management and financial management occupy the time of engineers.» And on the other hand, ‘Jølberg believes that as much as 24 per cent efficiency should be achievable. But only by increasing the efficiency of five per cent of the total of 200,000 engineers and civil engineers in Norway will 10 000 engineers be released.’ This alone shows that opportunities are enormous when it comes to improving the country’s efficiency. That is why I am very glad that some work has been started in the red tape of Norway. DFØ is an example of a significant savings potential, with estimates of between 20 and 30 million. kr per year. In a transitional phase, this could cost some money, but if you choose to look at it in the longer term, the potential and savings possibilities are great if you continue the course that the new government has taken. The budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left involves increased dividends from state companies, but we have chosen to shield Avinor from increased dividends. This is completely conscious of our side. We regard air traffic as part of Norwegian public transport and our infrastructure. Avinor is facing major investments, including: The Gardermoen – with Terminal 2 – and in Flesland. Furthermore, money shall be used for the design of the expansion of the runway at the airports of Finnmark and Nordland, respectively, a country with a long distance and where one depends on a well-functioning and good route offer. Infrastructure in a modern society is a prerequisite for achieving the necessary efficiency and further development of the country. Norwegian airports have an important role in this way. Then I just have to take a short walk into the posts of the representative Tore Hagebakken. I hope his disappointment doesn't get too big during the day, but he can wait in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e200	It is not this attitude that has created the most debate in the Committee, but it is interesting to read in the supplementary proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Everyone who joined the media when it was presented will remember that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, was very busy saying that there had been such a short time – an incredibly short time – to make changes. The second excuse was that you only had 16.3 pst. in digestion. That was the explanation of what had been done. Then it's interesting for us who have been sitting and making the draft budget, to see what you had time for, and not least what the government had time to do in that transition. For example, the Minister of Finance and the Advancement Party had: time to look at what the SSB should do. It's very strange that you got time for it; that you should say no, savings bank statistics, you shouldn't do that. But some of us who were part of the previous government, remember that there were some people in the Ministry of Finance who thought it was unwise then, too, and they've used the opportunity, once there was a new regime, to bring up again the bargains they had. They have been brought through with the new regime, and the government has been given control. The same applies to the discussion about DFØ, which suddenly appeared just after the previous government went off. Then that report came, and within a few days it was possible to conclude on what kind of office structure to have. I don't think there was any heavy political initiative, either the small curiosity on the SSB case or on the DFØ. There was a little room. The government used that space and took control of the political leadership. You can actually find a lot of examples of that if you go through this. It's quite funny reading to go through what was of a kind under the previous government, what it was different offices wanted to have in, and how to use the dirt hole between one government and another to get in different kepphesters – big and small. You had time for that, for some reason. I think, among other things: on the SSB statistics. I don't think it was any big progress party initially to be very opposed to conducting statistics on savings banks. Enough about that. In this setting we have had a round that has been very interesting. This concerns the Progress Party and the Right's desire to centralise state jobs – the Directorate for Economic Management – mainly to growth cities like Oslo and Stavanger from small places in Finnmark, Kristiansand and from my own hometown, near my own hometown, Hamar. The majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left – has wanted to spend some time on this. When a report is received at the very end of October, and the government concludes a week later, it is appropriate to look at the societal implications of such centralisation. Is it possible to streamline the Directorate of Economic Management without cutting down jobs where it has the greatest possible ring-effects? Five additional jobs in a small Finnmark town have quite different ring-effects than five additional jobs in Oslo. That is why we believe it was hasty for the government to use a little over a week to conclude on such a matter, and there are no savings in the proposition on that measure this year. But there has obviously been a willingness of some in the system to go through this as quickly as possible, and before you have had time to take a proper political assessment of the consequences of it. It was therefore a pleasure in the committee that the traditional counter-cultural parties – the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left – were united, and that the Workers' Party and the SV also saw the same thing. It has been a proud centre tradition that you have dared to think both city and country, centre and periphery, and not always give in to what is the inherent power of the system: centralisation of the most jobs to the least possible places, and believe that it will also be as effective as possible. Politics is all about thinking. Me and the Center Party are absolutely sure that it's wise to have, for example, five State jobs in a small Finnish town, as there are so many other ring-effects to be added to Oslo or other major growth cities than all possible jobs. Unfortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party have taken up something else. That story has also been nice. Right-wing representatives have repeatedly been out there and they have said that they should put more jobs, for example. To Hamar, they said that the government was stopped, and today it seems again that what was a majority to think of as a whole, has become a majority to think about, and that it is abandoned. I think it's sad if the Left actually turns around, because they have a proud tradition as part of a countercultural movement that thinks whole, and not part.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e215	The party in this room has agreed that Norway has great industrial potential to invest in climate technologies, renewable energy and renewable energy operators, not least yesterday’s debate. At the same time, there is little doubt that different instruments, such as the Enova and the SkattenFUNN schemes and other measures, are close enough to exploit the potential neither in the existing industry nor to scale up exciting research results and technology from the laboratory stage to industrial products. We have e.g. the secret research environment in the city with big B for me, Bergen, which has developed methods that can make hydrogen produced by electrolysis, competitive, but we lack tools to test this out in an almost full-scale production environment. If the electrolysis process is powered by renewable energy, the finished product is literally chemically free of emissions at all. Electrolysis-produced hydrogen can be the energy carrier that gets the ‘world wide’ CO2-free — in that case a decisive contribution to expanding the use of renewable energy in a field where fossil energy is one-off today, and which can contribute heavily to Norway’s continuing to be a large E energy nation, including in the renewable age. This is how I could continue with other forms of energy and technologies. However, the example illustrates the potential of Norway, suggesting that we have a framework that allows several pilot projects to develop into a commercial product. In order to supplement and expand today's toolkit, the Left has proposed the creation of a new State investment company with 3 billion equity items, under 90 items, Chapter 2425, Item 91. kr: Norsk Renewbar AS. As the Left envisages the facilities of Renewable AS, the company will primarily invest in renewable energy scale-up projects and renewable energy carriers – investments that hope to provide future returns in terms of both value creation and heavy contributions to solving the climate problem. We have no illusion of getting a plurality for the establishment of the company today. I still allow myself to hope for success when we bring matters up again at later times. With regard to item 4.7, Chapter 1605, the Directorate for Economic Management, the Left was in doubt when the Committee was to come up with the vote. Having gained new and expanded knowledge from the department, we find that postponing a final decision by five to six months is not the best solution. This is not something that I say with triumph in the voice, or with great bravour, but it means that the left is going to voice against XI in the setting. When the Left now supports the government in the modernisation work of state budgets, even when it means strengthening in the big cities, we have argued that the government is busy and preferably better, the regional balance over time. The left, therefore, expects the Minister to confirm to this day how the government follows such ambition and what plans the government has for the relocation of state institutions from the press area, not least when it has open savings opportunities. Finally, I take up the suggestions on the left in the setting that we are currently dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e231	The representative Terje Breivik then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e234	Let me first, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, take up the suggestions we are behind in the setting, and it is done. It is important to make visible through our policies that we want to use the whole country, as the Center Party tends to say. There are a whole range of jobs in the state that can be located anywhere other than in the capital. Where the previous Right-Registration deserves some brilliance for moving out state jobs, this government deserves a little bit of taste, because it makes no sense to centralize the Directorate of Economic Management, for example. These jobs need not be located in a large city. It is a bit revealing that the government believes that skills jobs cannot be located outside the centres. It is an immature and out-of-date view of the competence and organisation of the public sector, and it is a warning of what is coming. Should we believe, for example. The right's own alternative state budget from the previous period, in the next state budget, we can expect a fairly large redistribution from the districts to the centres – not only in terms of how the public sector is organised, but also through the tax policy mechanism, but there is another debate. The increased use of oil money to which the Left and Christian People's Party subscribes does not have a background in professional advice. There are no prospects in the Norwegian economy that suggest that more oil money should be brought into our economy – not now, on the contrary, there are good times. The Left and Christian People's Party had the opportunity to show that they were serious when they talked about reducing oil dependence. The use of oil money to finance tax cuts that have little or no effect on the economy must be the very definition of oil dependence, and there are costs that the majority will have to bear throughout the period. The central parties could have provided a majority for a more responsible line which would also reduce our dependence on the oil sector and which would benefit the mainland economy and industry. Finally, I intend to be a little heretical. I'm going to think out loud from the Great Council. Norway's oil policy has given us tremendous wealth, and the way resources under the seabed have been managed has benefited everyone. It's a model of succession for very many of the world's countries. The oil fund provides us with security, and is well managed. Government pension funds abroad will grow larger and larger. We already own more than 1 pst. of all listed means of production worldwide. There are tens of thousands of thousands of jobs, jobs that ordinary people go to a country all over the world. With ethical guidelines and, hopefully, an even better ethical and sustainable mandate in the future, we thus make a contribution to the world. But morally, what does it really mean when we, five million people, own such a large part of the world? Where are we going with that? Is the idea that we should own more and more? Are there contradictions that we, as a small country, should use capitalism to own the work of so many people in so many other countries? What kind of power does it really give us? How should that power be distributed? How should it be managed? How are we going to manage that power? These are questions I've never heard in Stortinget, and there's an idea discussion that should be the basis for our entire policy with the State pension fund abroad. We should take the time to discuss these things, so I'm just going to notify the finance minister immediately that over Christmas there is an interpellation for the slightly larger thoughts on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e245	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e249	The Government's proposals for changes to the 2014 budget and the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left contain changes to the proposal of the Stoltenberg II Government, which will benefit many regions. Some examples are the appropriations for the maintenance of the railway which increase by significant amounts, the appropriations for road purposes under the State Road Administration increase by more than 1 billion. kr, in addition, the interest compensation scheme for the county roads is continued and the free income of the county municipalities is actually increased by 280 million. kr for upgrading and renewal of county roads. This government is concerned with the modernisation of the public sector. The terms of the Cooperation Agreement on the «most effective use of Community resources» shall be followed up. The structure of the Departments and Directorates shall be reviewed with a view to simplifying and red tape. The government will emphasise that structural changes should have a good regional balance. Where there are clear savings opportunities and there is a sufficient recruitment basis, the government will also consider facilitating the development of government jobs outside the press areas. Then I must say that it is not that the government has not made a political priority when we promote proposals for changes in the structure of the Directorate for Economic Management. We're based on the recommendations of the directorate itself. There, four different alternative solutions were outlined. The basis of the government’s decision relating to the potential for winnings. We looked at how we could pick up what was the most important thing, the two reasons that were considered, in order to carry out such a conversion. One was that the reduction in the number of offices was a necessary and important measure to facilitate good security, deliverability and internal control. The second was that the proposal we put forward at the end of the day to the Storting will expect a saving of 20 million. kr after conversion. This is money that can be used for other good purposes. It's close to commenting on the post of the representative Battle Violence Vedum, who could describe the blows that stood in the previous government a bit colorfully. I'm not a second in doubt that there were many blows in the previous government. However, what seemed later was that this was a blow that contributed to the failure of the public sector to take the necessary steps for significant change and to improve the efficiency of the public sector – with a small exception. Therefore, it is tempting to remind Battle Violence Vedum of the following, when he tries to create the impression that it is only this government that dares to take this type of grip: In the period 2011-2012, the Red-Green Government briefed the Stortinget that it would lay down 103 tax offices with fewer than five employees. Then it was all right with the kind of efficiency and conversion. Now, when it touches less, it's not okay. I just mention it as a little curiosity – at the bottom of the debate. Then the representative, Mr. Hagebakken, made the impression that there was an irresponsible shift in the use of oil money at this government. To that I would say that it is not. The use of oil money in the government budget for next year has been adapted to the economic situation — under a government warning significant measures to streamline, modernise, simplify and convert the public sector. This is a government that dares to ask questions, not just by what we spend money on, but by how we spend money. These are important questions to ask, because we manage the taxpayers' money. It's what this government intends to do. We intend to continue to propose the necessary and proper structural measures to modernise and convert the Norwegian economy. We will continue to propose necessary and proper tax reliefs, because it modernises the economy and provides the basis for more growth and value creation. And – we want to do what the previous government never managed to do, namely dry to cut to release money to clear priorities. I am proud that this government dares to do so, and I am pleased that we have a good cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which follows this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e264	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e267	Just a few brief comments. First, Mr Hagebakken, who was concerned about the use of oil. The opposition – in this case the working party – is now occupied only by the number of dollars. Once you were busy with percent, now you're just busy with heads. I understand that, because then the description – the rhetorical content – fits a little better. In fact, for 2014, we add up to an oil money consumption corresponding to 2.9 pst. by the capital of the pension fund. I think we can agree that is good within the framework set by the Stortinget. And it's been a long time since it's been at such a low percentage level. It's not like the money we spend, one-sided goes to tax relief. They also invest in infrastructure – it is future-oriented, it benefits Norwegian business. We focus on education – it also benefits business and the future. We're betting on research. And if there's something that benefits the future, it's just that. I needed to give a slightly different picture than the description given by the representative Hagebakken. It was nice to hear the representative Battle Violence Vedum describe the blows in the bureaucracy both before, during and after the government change. I think I shouldn't comment on it – it was interesting to listen to at least. Finally, I do not think there was anything heretical in the Snorre Serigstad Valen advertised. On the contrary, thinking big thoughts should be done often. How we manage our oil wealth – a better theme for a larger debate in this room is scarce. It is a great responsibility for us as a country – it is a great responsibility for the government and for the Storting – to ensure that the natural conditions we now enjoy are well managed, not only for our own country, but also beyond the borders of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e282	The left is back in the fold – unfortunately – but I still live in the hope that one day we will be able to put our foot down against blue-blue politics. The representative Tom Holthe of the Progress Party had almost what is called a trailer in the film language about what was to come. On the way we were informed that the left had a group meeting and had turned the case around. Holthe announced that I could be disappointed. I'm disappointed, but more than personally feeling disappointed, this is very disappointing in view of the expertise that's out there, the good trade unions that are so finely decentralized across the country, and that are now to be centralized. District policy costs a few dollars, but the cost of not having an active district policy – not including that element in different contexts – is much greater for our country. I'm disappointed. I will solemnly – and it may not be more solemn than from this pulpit – withdraw the reward that I gave the Left. Siv Jensen, the finance minister, says one saves 20 million. kr. Neither do we in the Workers' Party have anything against saving money. They can be used for other good purposes – says the Minister of Finance – we need clear and clear priorities. We know what has first priority, no matter what the Syvers say. It's tax havens. This may indicate that a person is now going to seam the central government and the country for money that can be involved and finance the tax bill in the future. Then we jump off, and I hope that on one occasion the Left too will agree to put the foot down. I want to add that it's starting to form a pattern – a sort of premonition," said Serigstad Valen. I agree. What's the next thing that's going to happen? We saw what happened to regional development funds, we saw what was happening in this case. My great fear is linked to the local economy, not only to future frameworks when large tax cuts are to be financed, but to the distribution between Norwegian municipalities. I fear that the tax-deprived municipalities will be weaker and affected by the lack of distribution policy that we experience from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e299	I would like to use a few more words about the office structure of the Directorate of Financial Management. It is a fact that the management report came there at the end of October, and it is a fact that the additional proposition was presented only a few days later. The fact that there has been some thorough and heavy political assessment of the consequences of such centralisation is difficult to believe in with the short deadline that has been when the report and the supplementary proposal were presented, and we know that it should also be printed. A few days have passed, and then you've just knocked through what some officials want. It's also very clear in the supplementary proposition that there's a risk involved in doing that conversion. There are no savings proposals to centralise the office structure of the DFF in the coming financial year. The bulk of the population – or the majority of the population before today – asked for a new round, to take a little better time, and to look at how to streamline within the Directorate of Economic Management, but at the same time to take overall societal considerations, so that you could have the jobs in Vadsø, where four to five state jobs mean a lot. It's the same thing as having 33 government jobs in Hamar, where it means a lot, a lot more than that means adding 33 new jobs to the Oslo Centre. For some reason, the government does not have time to make such a thorough assessment, not time to look at the overall social consequences, not time to think about the whole. It's disappointing. It is a little surprising that there has now been a clear use of raw power against one of their partners to get this through, once you have also seen how representatives of the right parties around the country have done everything they can to try to stop this centralisation process. Here a used raw power has both against representatives in their own parties and against one cooperation party, because it is absolutely necessary to carry out a centralisation that is not known about the price, and for which an overall assessment has not been made. In my home country, we had two of those kinds of things. We had a thin set of health records, which could have big, long-term effects by locating a national health archive on Tynset. It also chose the government to stop. There's no doubt that it's part of a pattern. One does not want to use state jobs to create activity around Norway, and one is willing to use raw power to push it through. I think it's sad. I hope and know that in the Left Party, in the Christian People's Party and in the Center Party there are many of the same counter-cultural flows, where you want to use the whole country – so that we can still have hope for voting afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e310	I have to admit that I really didn't believe my own ears when I heard what had happened, that there was a majority in a case where there has been a great local commitment – from the government parties too – to stop this centralization, which has not at all been the basis for any thorough political assessment, as the representative Schlagsvold Vedum was up and said. It's part of the government's cut policy, they needed money to finance their heart issues, which are tax havens. Then it doesn't matter if it goes beyond anyone, especially if it's in the districts. We saw that in the budget when we removed the stakes on the Central Depository and Health Archives on Tynset, an investment of nearly 1 billion. kr, which has been impact assessed, and would provide 80 permanent jobs in the districts – ‘wake up’. Now it was these jobs, and they were to be rescued by the local representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. They couldn't, but it seemed as long as the Left would do it. We were happy and happy on the left. I now understand that they are exposed to a power, a raw power, which is not very nice to look at. I also think the government parties now have to consider what kind of light they put their local representatives in, because now they are being made as totally without influence on the government and what they get at all. This government has clear signals that, for example: a state such as Hedmark is going to lose large sums, both on tax revenue, because taxes are to be eliminated, and on the local economy, where it is clearly signalled – also from the Stortinget Committee – that the distribution of income is to be weakened and that corporate tax is to be returned to the municipalities that receive it, where the head office is. We've seen those distribution tables. They show losses in all municipalities in my home country, and profits in those municipalities where especially the Right is strong. I am most amazed at the Progress Party, because they are also strong in some of these municipalities. And they're not going to have anything. They have cut the regional development funds violently – they have got back some of the money on the way. So this is going to generate the growth force. The NHO reports that the public sector in Hedmark is the engine of what is going on there. This government goes right on it and cuts at all possibilities they see. I have to say I'm worried. I am concerned about the development, and I am also concerned about the climate of cooperation that I see developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e321	First, I would like to thank the committee leader, Syversen, for looking forward to the idea debate in Stortinget. That's very good, so do I. Then I'm going to jump from the idea debate to the really small details. I noticed in the representative Syversen said about oil money. As the oil fund increases and increases in value, the percentage used of the value of the oil fund will have less and less to say, really. When the representative Syversen boasts that only 2.9 pst. of the value of the pension fund is used, it is only half the truth – at best. The number of dollars we spend, most of all, is for the simple reason that the oil money use as a share of the mainland economy has never been bigger. Next year, even more oil money and an even greater share of the mainland economy could be spent on tax cuts and expensive election vows, while boasting of following the rules of action and using a low percentage. I would like to invite Mr Breivik's representative to bring his greetings to his big group. It's that there's real jobs, that real people have enjoyed being able to keep, because they thought the Left had got them a majority in the Biggest. Being a party on the tip of the head gives rise to a considerable amount of responsibility. It gives less room for wings than the one traditionally known to the Left. Here, the Left has winged, while the government has demonstrated its willingness to whip and humiliate a cooperation party – not to ensure a major reform, not to get through a whole, but because without proper investigation, you absolutely have to put down district jobs. As I said when the supplementary proposition was put forward, this actually demonstrates that the government is fully capable of prioritizing, it's just that what it chooses to prioritize is crazy politics. It's a terrible shame that the Left at one moment agreed to stop some of it, and then at the very last moment has turned around, when all these people it's about, probably thought that their jobs were secure. This is not the way a powerful party that is on the tip of the Stortinget should act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e332	First, I would like to say that the interpellation to which the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has alerted is also pleasing to the Progress Party. I have to say that I have a little difficulty getting to grips with what the representative Serigstad Valen actually means, because on the one hand he is concerned that the use of oil money is too great, and on the other hand he is concerned that the oil fund owns more and more in the world. It is that if we had used less oil money, one would have had to buy more axles and own more and more. When it comes to competitiveness, it is a fact that from the additional proposition that has been put forward until it is now dealt with in the Stortinget, the krone price has fallen and the competitiveness of Norwegian companies has strengthened The second issue that has been raised here today is the Directorate of Financial Management. Now it's a fact that Norway has one of the largest public sectors in the world. He's developed negative under the red-green government. It's a development that can't go on with the growth we've seen. Then the cooperation parties, the four bourgeois parties, have seen this on the agenda. One will have more efficiency and red tape. Now, in the first case, we're going to be able to save $20 million on the Directorate of Economic Management, with the grips being taken here. kr per year. This is an example of one going the right way, and one has many other directorates where one should take similar steps. I believe this debate has shown that Stortinget does not own itself as the arena to take this kind of discussion about efficiency and red tape. I am overestimated that the grips taken when it comes to improving the efficiency of the public sector will result in a reduction in the number of both central jobs, state jobs, and district work places. It is a development that is necessary. This is not about centralisation, it's about streamlining and slimming the public sector. It's necessary to do that. I hope there will be more of that in the future, and I'm also overestimated that it will be. When we listen to the representative Tore Hagebakken, it seems that the former red-green government's form of district policy was state jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e351	I understand the red-green disappointment of not being able to get a majority against the government in this matter. But when the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen says that the Left is tricking real workers and real people, I just want to remind the representative Serigstad Valen that what was in the proposal was a closer investigation, not a promise to cement a structure. So to the representative Hagebakken, who had hoped, and hopes that the Left should put down the foot of a blue-blue policy. Then I just want to remind the representative Hagebakken that the Left was part of the Bondevik II government. And if someone really demonstrated the ability and willingness to use the competence of the whole country by moving out state jobs, it was the Bondevik II government, of which the Left was part. To Battle Violence Vedum, who comes with accusations from this pulpit, about ‘raw power’, abuse of power, to get through this: in fact, I think that’s pretty strong words – both to expose a party to this and to accuse others of practicing that kind of abuse of power. I just want to remind you that here we are talking about important elements, both to be able to save 20 million. kr per year after the conversion has been completed and to release funds for other purposes. We are talking about focusing on security, on quality and on internal control in key government services, as one looks is better cared for through fewer offices. That the left in this context has changed my mind, I think I serve the left to honor, because there are enough things in this society that we need to spend money and resources on. Then we can at least go ahead as a good example and streamline the public sector in a way that allows us to release funds for other good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e360	Let me first solve some obvious errors. So there are no random officials, as Battle Force Vedum called it, who have been beaten through this. This is a proposal that the government has put before the Stortinget and which is now supported by a majority. This is based on an assessment — carried out by the directorate itself — of four alternative solutions to improve the efficiency of the establishment. I would like to remind you that the previous government carried out the change in the tax rate to which I referred in my previous post, the government wrote the following: ‘A structure with still many small offices, however, is challenging both professionally and costly. In order to ensure a satisfactory service offer to all taxpayers, including the uniform treatment of equal opportunities, and efficient resource use, the Government has authorised the Tax Directorate to close tax offices...». [[...]] It was a change that would give a saving of about 20 million. kr – ‘cut policy’, as Karin Andersen calls it. We've done this because we think it's right. We've done this because we went to the elections to streamline, simplify and red tape. We went to the elections – that's why the government changed. I think it's okay that red-green parties disagree with this. So we made a choice on this -- now we're doing it. But to make claims that we have used raw power against the Left or the Whisper and humiliated them, as Serigstad Valen called it, I think is a very unnecessary use of language. It is a perfectly honest thing that you disagree with the proposal the government has put before the Storting, but this has been a tidy process, and we have had good dialogue with the cooperation parties in Stortinget. This is based on a good, thorough review and assessment, which has now led to a majority in the United Kingdom to implement this. It's okay to disagree, but that's what the majority has decided on. What I want to say in conclusion is this: this government is going to promote a wide range of proposals for the Storting on more efficiency, simplification and red tape. That means it's not the last time we're going to have a debate on these questions. It's not an overall goal for this government to centralize. There is no natural link between simplification, efficiency, red tape and centralisation. However, the consequence of making more efficient use of taxpayers’ money in a more sensible way means releasing funds for other purposes. That's what this government is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e376	Thanks to the Minister for the response to my call for the relocation of state jobs. We appreciate it. But of course, the left will be a janitor and, if necessary, use the armstroke in Stortinget to ensure that something happens in practice as well. Then I can enjoy Battle violence Vedum and say that the government has not in any way used raw power. I still feel I'm reasonably fresh and fast here I stand on the armchair. But we've come to know more about the matter. For the Left, this is about security, deliverability and, not least, the fact that a postponement with new distributions would hardly have resulted in a better basis of decision – rather training and new insecurity, as the representative Meling was inside his post. So, of course, I'm saying that this kind of decision, decisions, is very difficult. It affects workplaces and individuals. Three thorough assessments I certainly believe Left now have done in this matter – in the same way that I suggested that the red-green had when, as the minister has now said at two times, they decided to close 103 Equations Offices, or when local hospitals actually systematically under red-green control were lost for content and functions. So a little bit about the oil money usage. I can also assure the assembly, and so send a signal to the government, that the oil money usage that Left has taken place in our alternative state budget this year sets out the list of our views on this. We are very sceptical about unnecessary and high levels of oil money, and we will also use it in future budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e390	It was the posts of the representatives from Uppland and Hedmark who made me ask for the floor. Because when it's said that we've been subjected to raw abuse of power in the Left, that's not what it's about. If we look back at the eight years of the red-green government, the 10 000 created new state jobs. 8 000 of them are located in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Hamar. We're talking about a redistribution between the winners of state jobs, and it's worth noting that the red-green government was able to move out about. 100 State jobs from Oslo. So I guess we're not talking about a winning event in the decentralization of the state under the red-green government. What has been important for the Left is precisely to look at both efficiency and professional consolidation, and this is an example of technology and efficiency moving forward, and where it is a sensible approach to do just that. Then, surely, Hamar is going to be a winner in the future. The city is 30 minutes north of Gardermoen, which means it's smart to put a lot of things there. The major challenge in the regional debate is related to the internal and external districts, and this is where we are going to require a clear action plan from the government to move out state jobs where it is natural to do so – from Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and Hamar, to that end – to those who need jobs, and where it is quite natural that one can carry out that task, from, for example, Vadsø. There was one case here, that's absolutely right. But here there's a need for an overall review, and so we also find that moving out completely is a reasonable approach. Then we also need a policy to establish new jobs sensibly. So it's going to be a paradox to talk about the use of oil money. If we're going to use oil money to maintain state jobs, it's not sustainable over time. We need to create a business policy that does something about what jobs we create, including in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e408	First to the last curious thing that was said now. So there's not a word in this proposition about saving this centralization, and what it has to do with oil money usage, I don't know. This is a purely centralisation proposal. I also believe that the representative has to check his figures for state jobs in the districts. I can mention that only in Hedmark do we have Health South-East in Hamar, we have moved parts of the Home Guard and the Army to Hedmark, and there are many more government jobs than the representative from the Left said. That means we've had an active policy. That doesn't mean that the centralization trends aren't strong. That is precisely why we need a strong district policy, and that is when the signals from this government go in a different direction. I am very surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party is involved in this process of local economy, and in terms of regional policy instruments. For several days we've been discussing instruments to the forest industry and the bioenergy bit where it's announced that there are thousands of jobs going to go. Now it's this, in the budget, there was the health archive on Tynset, and the Minister of Finance notified from the pulpit that there will be more of this. There will be several measures to centralise activities until your wheels go so that it laughs already. It has to be an active district policy if we're to get what we want, because centralization is a force that goes by itself. But now you have to accumulate money and activity where the wheels are doing well, as they write in both documents and settings. I have not experienced that there are some people who have gone to the choice of laying down these jobs. I have not experienced in Hedmark that there are some who have gone to the choice of laying down these jobs or the activity that was planned on Tynset – on the contrary! And in the last few weeks, representatives from both the Advance Party and the Right – and the Left – have been very visible in the media and fought for this, for they have been opposed to this. They have said that this is not our policy, but the Minister of Finance says this is their policy. It's this double game I'm responding to. I understand that the Left needs to defend what they've done, and I'm disappointed if they actually believe that this is right, because then they stand for something other than what they've said before. But what I'm most responding to is that it's been said that this has been a neat process. It hasn't been. There have been no submissions to the Stortinget that could have made qualified decisions on this. In the United Kingdom, there has been a majority for a different solution to this day, and it has been written down in large-scale documents. So this hasn't been a neat process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e419	I believe this matter is reasonably informed now. Let me just give you one reflection. We in the committee agreed on an approach to this which did not address the structure, but we asked for some more time to be given to see these kinds of issues in context. There is talk of a combination of streamlining the directorate and maintaining a decentralised office structure being assessed separately – not a very radical issue. The majority agreed on that, and it is of interest that the Left turns after we have had the discussions on the comments in the Committee. But just leave it. What I want to add a comment to is a statement by the representative Hagesetter, who from this pulpit said about the following, as I noted it: The Storting is not suitable as the arena to discuss the efficiency of the public sector. Now this government, the government parties and the four majority parties have talked about getting the debate back to Stortinget. The nice thing is that we can now take debates on how society evolves and make decisions here. I looked at the committee comment that we had, as an expression that it actually had something to do with it. We have been through a budgetary procedure that has not really had any visible sign of it, because the four parties have been very close together. I congratulate them on that. It's natural after the statement they have. But this majority opinion was an expression that the Storting could actually express itself in a way that the government could take with it, and take some more time. That's not happening. But I think it's a very bad signal if we're to be faced with a development of the public sector that we all, I think, agree to need continuous renewal and efficiency consistent with technology etc. If the attitude is that, no, there are too detailed discussions, it's not suitable in the Storting, I assume that the Left in particular will react with its origin that is linked to all power in this hall. I want to be very concerned that we can discuss these questions very thoroughly. What else should be our mandate as ombudsmen for whom we are elected?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e428	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e431	I almost hope that the employees who have their jobs around Norway do not follow this debate. These are the jobs of people living in Vadsø, who live in Tromsø, who live in Hamar, who live in Kristiansand, and we – the majority, up to an hour ago – thought that they should be properly involved in the consequences of putting them down. We wanted to take these people seriously, because this was a report that came at the end of October, and that the government concluded something about afterwards. We had a different goal than the government. It was just concerned with efficiency, but we had two objectives. We had more efficiency, but at the same time the decentralisation of public jobs across the country. Therefore, we – the majority – asked the government to go a few new rounds and see how one could manage to streamline while maintaining a decentralised structure. But now there has been so much achievement in this that walking such a round is not possible, and you unfortunately get left on that team.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e440	What the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is now saying is that you have to go one more round for six months. Then one has to think back that the red-green government has spent eight years going rounds like that and not having a single new job moved out of Oslo. This is about action. We have to show that. We need to improve efficiency on the one hand, and at the same time it is also possible to put in place a plan for where we are going to have government jobs in Norway. When Andersen says that I have to check the numbers, she actually has to go home and check the numbers herself – in the case of state jobs – the 10,000 new ones there is no doubt about where is created. Of all the existing jobs that the state had before the red-green government joined, no one has moved out. There was no plan, and there have certainly been many fights internally in the red-green government, but one has never got the power to act. It may be at the expense of those who work in Oslo, that it has become too difficult. Of course, this is painful, but we have two tasks: one is to do important action, also because technology and processes are moving forward, the other is to take into account that we are to distribute the state jobs across the country. We believe that this is possible through an overall plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e447	The reason why I take the floor is what the representative Jonas Gahr Støre said from the pulpit, where he commented on a post I had had. What's the starting point, is that the Storing is legislative and running power, and the government is executive power. What I said was, if we're going to go into details and such red tape processes, I don't think the Storting is an own body to get rid of red tape and a smaller public sector. But of course it is quite right that the Storting should be able to give directionlines, including in such debates as this, when it comes to red tape and simplification. It does one with both the law and the state budget, etc. I think that if we're going to go into every single directorate and wind up state jobs and discuss it in full width in the Storting, what's happened in the last eight years among the red-green, that there's very little happening in that area, that the public sector is growing, and it's going to be a development that can't continue. We would like to give them the direction lines and the signals and discuss them, but I do not feel that it has happened in this case. Here one goes into a specific matter and seems almost as if the most important district agency is state employment. Of course it isn't. The Government Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has now voted in favour of a state budget that has record investments in road and rail and tax havens that will strengthen competitiveness. This will meet the districts very well, and we are laying a good foundation for good development in the whole country. The representative, Karin Andersen, was among others. in the case of corporation tax, that the tax should be applied to the place where the head offices were to be located. That's not correct. It is a requirement that part of the corporate tax should be returned to the municipalities, and then it should go where the jobs are, not where the head offices are – where the value creation takes place, and not where the head offices are. And we're going to talk about this as centralizing. This, I have repeated several times, has nothing to do with centralisation, when we talk about the Directorate of Economic Management. This has to do with red tape, simplification and the reduction of government employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e462	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e465	Here it's said very strange. First of all, it is quite special for the representative, Kjeseth, to go into the attack position, when his own party has just broken its promise to the employees of DFØ in Vadsø, in Tromsø, in Hamar, in Drammen and in Kristiansand without giving any proper explanation about it. So Gjermund Hagesetter says afterwards – he says it outright, he confirms it and reinforces it – that Stortinget is not a suitable body to discuss red tape. I guess it's not clear that a big-time representative from a government party is going to move decisions out of the hall. So he finally said that this is not about centralization, but a reduction in government jobs. Yes, there are a lot of decent people who lose their jobs, and there are especially some in the Left who should listen to how the Progress Party defends that decision the Left has just given its majority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e472	It was useful to hear the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, confirm what he said in the beginning. Then I think that on behalf of the Workers' Party I will report from this pulpit that we are not going to share the opinion that it is not appropriate to discuss red tape and the efficiency of the public sector in Stortinget. If we're going to go into detail, says Hagesetter – the details here are about the jobs of people, it's about community, it's about skills jobs. We have never thought that there are state jobs that save the districts, on the contrary. But does that matter? What is the reason for the involvement of the cities mentioned by the representative Serigstad Valen? Well, that's precisely because these jobs actually matter, they're worked up. Now we haven't stopped what the structure of this directorate should be. We've asked for some more time for that, and so that time is not given. Here we hear it very clearly – and I will follow with interest how the Christian People's Party and the Left will follow that debate – here the goal is set, there should be a smaller public sector, it should be cut in that type of work, and it is called efficiency. And: The debate does not belong in Stortinget. If we are to have it so that the Storting will in a way adopt the principle of fewer public servants, fewer government jobs, and then we have taken our principle assessment, and then it is the government as executive that implements it in local communities here and communities there. If that's the government party model, I say clearly from: we're against it, and we're going to reserve the right to have an opinion about the individual directorate, the individual sector and the individual objective. This has been a useful illustration by the representative of the Progress Party. We are beginning to see clearer contours behind basic formulations in this government statement of how the method is intended to be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e484	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e487	I agree with what the representative Jonas Gahr Støre said now. An approach is now being drawn up to pursue strong centralisation policies, even though the Storting should only discuss overall objectives, such as: fewer bureaucrats, that it must be a control signal, and where the government must have free play. I just want to remind you again that there is a great deal of commitment in this matter and in the other matters in the other cities, from representatives of the government parties as well as from the Left and Christian People's Party. It's not just SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party that care about this – this is what people care about beyond the country. We now experience a government that does not hear and does not care about how this is. I also feel that it is systematic to say one thing, you say you want good district policy, and then you do the opposite. You cut systematically and turn your money against the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e492	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e495	I have great respect for the debates that are taking place in the communities that are losing jobs. That's exactly what we don't have to do, make this a little debate in each case. We have to have the big plan. The left will have a democratic reform, and we will have to discuss it in Stortinget – that is of course. But it's been a formidable directoratization, and today we have a state that is divided into 45 different geographical divisions. It's a formidable conglomerate. We have to go through, for the sake of democracy, the division of the state in order to get a more streamlined state. Then we have to discuss the big picture as well, and that's Left's important errand in this case – we're not going to discuss individual matters case by case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e500	I followed the debate from the office, and it was Left's Kjeseth who made me take the floor. When there is a claim that there are no established or outsourced jobs in the last eight years, it is simply a mistake. I can just mention someone – what we're talking about today is basically Hedmark, I've got it with me, so I also choose Hedmark as an example – State civil law administration, defence administration, State Children's House, special investigation body for police matters, Health South-East, the Railway Agency. I can mention Kongswinger, talk about Police College, Vardåsen Prison, etc. Karin Andersen has also mentioned more, and I do not include them in this round. In addition, the archive on Tynset has been mentioned. Nor did it continue what was contained in Stoltenberg II's draft budget on the Bachelor's programme for archival subjects, which was proposed as a decentralised higher education offer at Tynset under Hojskolen in Sør-Trøndelag. I just had to take the floor, because that unreasonable one just can't be. If you are to be part of the debate, there will be some honesty in what you actually come with from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e509	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e512	It has its sides to keep a short opening post. I'll learn from that. It's been an interesting debate. As a rule, when the debate is a little bit of a district policy and a little of a regional policy, there is a lot of intervention. The representatives of Støre and Hagesets have discussed how much should be put in this room, and how much should be outside. I am absolutely sure that with the commitment that is in this room, there will be a lot of debate about state jobs and where they should be. At the same time, it must be allowed to say that under the red-green regime there were extensive structural changes in hospitals and taxes, which were not considered particularly useful to discuss in this room. I think we should also take that with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e521	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Case No. 2, which is dealt with here, has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – There are no objections to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e550	Applicants for asylum are entitled to a fair, fair and predictable examination of the application. You also need to receive information you can understand. At the same time, it is important that Norway and other countries have effective cooperation to ensure that the right country treats the right application, which is generally referred to as the ‘first country of asylum’ principle. The Dublin III Regulation deals with both – the rights of applicants and cooperation between Member States. Compared to the current Dublin II Regulation, both parts are subject to change. When single minor asylum seekers have relatives in another Member State, the starting point is to reunite in order to have the application processed. In the past, reunification has included parents or guardians, in addition to any other persons. Now, siblings, uncles, aunts, or grandparents are also included in the group you can reunite with. Otherwise, the term ‘applicant’ is replaced by ‘applicant for international protection’, which includes both refugees and persons with so-called subsidiary protection. Several new rights are introduced for the applicant, including: the right to information on the use of Dublin III, the conduct of a personal interview, the right to appeal and the possibility to suspend the transfer to another Member State, legal assistance and the establishment of regulations on the duration of the imprisonment and the time limits for sending and responding to a request for transfer in the cases in question. Dublin III sets out different options for dealing with issues of delayed implementation. The Government has come up with a solution whereby, when the applicant requests suspension of the UDI’s decision to transfer, it is the Foreign Affairs Department, known as a judicial body, that deals with the case. And the transfer cannot take place until UNE has taken a decision on the request or dealt with the complaint on the decision. This is also included in a description of the law. Once a person has been adopted to another country for the purpose of examining the application, Dublin III suggests that he or she is not to cover the travel expenses himself. This is also included in the law. Unlike Dublin II, the Government proposes to have a more direct reference in the Foreign Affairs Act to Dublin III. It is also made clear that Dublin III is in fact part of Norwegian legislation. With regard to the overall impact on Norway of Dublin III, it is obvious that it is not easy to be quite specific about this now. There will probably be some more asylum applications to be dealt with in Norway. The conditions for granting asylum do not change as a result of Dublin III. However, the foreign field, which is involved in the proceedings, will have more tasks related to, among other things. individual courts, review procedures and new time limits. In total, the Ministry has estimated costs — from the fifth year following introduction — to over 200 million. kr. In addition to Dublin III and the current cases concerning the accession of agreements and amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act, there are also proposals for the inclusion of the new Eurodac Regulation. Eurodac deals with the rules for joint fingerprinting, a mechanism that is essential for effective and effective Dublin cooperation. The new Regulation involves improved data transfer and deletion mechanisms, improved access for Member States and protection of personal data. These matters have been dealt with quickly in the Storting. Dublin III enters into force from the new year, and without Norwegian accession in time, we would risk standing without a functioning new year's cooperation in the field of asylum. It would be an unsustainable situation. Today, we are dealing with two propositions that ensure both the inclusion of Dublin III and Eurodac and the necessary changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. It is a pleasure to be able to recommend the Committee's recommendations in the present cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e573	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good presentation of the matters we are dealing with. I'm just going to add some comments to those issues. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that there are two main aims of the amendments now proposed and which come through the Dublin III cooperation. It is more effective cooperation and strengthening the rights of asylum seekers. I should like to stress, like the rapporteur, that strengthening the rights of asylum seekers is not about extending the conditions for asylum. It is not regulated by the amendments proposed. Norwegian law and other international obligations continue to govern. These include: made some important reinforcements to the rights of asylum seekers. I'll mention two of them. One is to make restrictions on the possibility of returning persons to countries where there is reason to believe that there are systematic deficiencies in the asylum system or reception conditions. It is a practice that Norway has had for several years on its own, but we welcome it also for other countries. I know, among other things. that it was the case with relation in Greece at some point, which led to the detention of Dublin applicants there. The second is the emphasis that consideration of the best interests of the child should be of fundamental importance and that it should be extended. The circle of people with whom the child is to be reunited is a real extension, for which we in Norway are also making changes. But the child’s best interests have been the subject of debate in Stortinget in the past, and it is our opinion that consideration for the child’s best has been treated as a fundamental concern in Norway. Finally, I would like to touch prisons in the light of the dangers of avoidance. I have noticed the assessments made by the Ministry on the conditions of imprisonment, and I would like to refer to the fact that on written questions from the undersigned Minister of Justice on the extent and use of Section 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act in the case of prison, in 2013 – and it has not been used, so far. I record that there is a discussion there, among others. The Foreign Affairs Unit of the police has stated that the conditions laid down in the new regime are stricter than those laid down in Norwegian law. I rely on the department's assessment and don't think that's the case. I guess it's also a majority of the committee that has that opinion. Finally, let me make it clear, as stated in the proposal, and as also stated in the comments in the vote on the proposal, that it is not enough just to point out that he is subject to a Dublin procedure and to use it as a justification for imprisonment. There must also be heavier conditions before prison, with reference to the risk of avoidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e590	I want to make it clear that the Christian People's Party is not mentioned in a note on pages 13 and 14 of the Innst. 67 L, dealing with single minor asylum seekers. There's a note from the Left and Socialist Left Party that the Christian People's Party supports and agrees with. I actually drew myself case number. 2, but it went so fast. This applies to Innst. 68 S. I also want to take a little visit to it. There it is in the same way: Christian People's Party supports the comment from Left and SV on page 6 under point 2, second column, top. This concerns the best interests of the child in the treatment of lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e597	The President took note of Mr S. Tuskedal's speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e600	It is important to have good legislation on the handling of asylum seekers, and in the time we live in now, it is more important than ever. Amnesty was out the other day thinking that European leaders should ‘bend their heads in shame’ over the small number of Syrian refugees they accept. I think they should do something rather than be ashamed of themselves, because shame has never helped. But there is now a great need to accept more, and I may not think it is shameful, but it is embarrassing that Norway does not accept more quota refugees than what we are doing now. There are 18 EU countries that have refused to accept refugees from Syria now, refugees who would have been treated under this legislation – if they had been admitted. Perhaps one of the most serious things we see now is that countries are looking for opportunities to prevent those who need asylum from being able to apply. So I hope in other things we can come back how we're going to make sure that that opportunity is real to those who really need it. The Dublin III regulation, which we are examining now, strengthens the right of lone minor asylum seekers to Dublin II. We're happy about that. These include: in the pleading that consideration of the right to family life and the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in Dublin cases. The fact that the best interests of the child are fundamental is also provided for in Article 6. This is why we are not in favour of the majority's comments, because it says that they are only encouraged to do so, and that is not correct in relation to Dublin III and in relation to the commitments we have. The best interests of the child shall be among the interests of the child, but in the best judgements of the child, the State is encouraged to take into account the «possibility of family reunification, the welfare of minors and social development, safety and security and the views of minors». So it's in the assessment of this call, but the call is not about taking into account the child's best interests. I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party is now signaling that they want to be part of this. I'm very concerned when it's such a large majority that, in our opinion, it doesn't follow what's in the proposition, because SV's original comments are what's in the proposition. Therefore, what is stated in the comments, as a narrowing in this area, feels that there is a bit of free choice – one can choose to care for the child’s best – i.e. a call and not a commitment. However, as it has to be interpreted, it is in the child’s best assessment that there is a call to take into account specific issues. I hope that the Council of State can clarify this, so that there will be no intrusive effects in these remarks, because – as I said – our remarks follow the proposition. It is important, as it is said, to extend the scope with which unaccompanied minor asylum seekers can be reunited in another Member State. We support that. It is also important to point out that Article 28 of the Dublin III Regulation states that ‘a foreigner cannot be imprisoned solely on the grounds that he is subject to Dublin procedure and that imprisonment shall only take place if less invasive coercive measures are not sufficient’. [[1]] The SV then refers to the hearing opinions of the Foreign Affairs Unit and NOAS, which consider that the regulation imposes stricter conditions for imprisonment, a significant risk of avoidance than that resulting from the First paragraph of Section 6 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which states ‘concrete positions to be adopted’. SV agrees with the Foreign Affairs Agency in this regard and therefore believes that the Foreign Affairs Act should be amended at this point, so that there is consistency between the Act and Dublin III. Furthermore, we point out that both the Law Association and the NOAS in their hearing opinions point to the fact that the pay-as-you-go rate in Dublin cases is too low, because there is a need for more than two hours in order to provide adequate legal assistance, which is supported by the evaluation of the Law Association, carried out by Oxford Research. Therefore, SV wants the government to look at the payroll rates so that they ensure legal certainty in a thorough manner. SV is going to vote in favour during voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e624	I will first refer to the statements made by the President-in-Office, who made a good presentation on these matters. It is also comprehensive in my view on the matter, and I am very pleased that the Committee unanimously endorses the government's proposal to incorporate the revised Dublin and Eurodac regulations into Norway's agreement with the EU on participation in Dublin cooperation. We have been part of Dublin cooperation since 2001, and it has been a very important agreement for Norway. Both the need to prevent asylum seekers from being treated in many countries and the need to have effective, correct and good practice is important in Dublin legislation, and some changes have been made through Dublin III, which also help to strengthen legal certainty for applicants. To illustrate the importance of this agreement for Norway, I would like to mention that the Foreign Affairs Directorate expects to meet approximately this year. 2500 decisions on the transfer of asylum seekers to other European countries, amounting to about 20 pst. of asylum seekers coming to Norway. Then my enthusiasm for Stortinget's rapid processing will also be expressed by the fact that we are obliged by this agreement from 1 January 2014, and it is important for us that the Stortinget has gone a long way to fulfil that possibility. The alternative would be that we no longer had a Dublin regulation. The amendments to the Dublin Regulation concern, inter alia: Prison, which has been the subject of several speakers, treatment of requests for deferred entry into service and early warning procedures for deficiencies in the asylum system. Several procedural safeguards are also introduced. In addition, there are indications that single minor asylum seekers with family or relatives in specific countries should be able to process their application in the country of residence. This means, among other things: that a minor seeking asylum in Norway but having relatives in another country may have his/her application processed there and vice versa. The Government proposes amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act to ensure that Norwegian legislation complies with the Dublin III Regulation. It is proposed, inter alia: to include an implementing provision in Section 32 of the Foreign Affairs Act. The purpose of the amendment to Section 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act on Seizure and Incarceration is, among other things. a. to make visible that specific rules apply to Dublin cases. I note that the Committee endorses the proposed legislative amendments. I also note that the member of the Socialist Left Party believes that the conditions of the regulation on significant avoidance risks are more stringent than the applicable requirements of the Foreign Affairs Act, and that was also mentioned in the post by the representative Karin Andersen from here. It is clear that the provisions of the regulation provide a certain room for interpretation, as the consultation round also showed. Future practices in the Member States and the Court of Justice of the European Union could have an impact on the interpretation of this provision. The proposed legislative amendment aims, inter alia, to: to ensure that the provision of the Regulation is interpreted in line with developments in law. At the same time, from my point of view, I would like to point out that based on the preparatory work for the regulation, I believe that this does not imply a real change in the legal situation that we have in use today. I have recorded that there are several of the speakers who have discussed the same interpretation. But that does not mean that we are immune to any changes in international law, which will be part of what will be the basis for future decisions also in Norway after Dublin III. The main objective of the new Eurodac Regulation is to address the challenge of fingerprint transfer and deletion, as well as Member States’ access to relevant information on asylum seekers in other Member States. The Eurodac Regulation will apply from 20 July 2015, but Norway must already notify the EU before the new year if we accept it, and I am very pleased that the Stortinget agrees with the government that we should accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e643	I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. These are not always as simple things, you just have to admit it, but if there is a difference in the language used in the comments – and I have to bear a certain responsibility in that case as rapporteur of the case – the intention of the majority has not been to make changes in the assumptions made by the government and the proposition regarding the understanding of the meaning of the «best of the child».
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e648	I'm very happy to hear that. It was an important clarification from the rapporteur in Stortinget. The question then is whether the Council of State shares that view, which is that there are now no comments to be taken into account, saying that ‘states are invited’ to take account of the child, but that consideration for children ‘should be a fundamental consideration’, and that it is in that assessment for the sake of the children invited to make different assessments. There is a difference in substance, in order to encourage countries to base their best efforts on the child, is a major step backwards from the legal situation we also have today, where the child’s best ‘should be’ is one of the important assessment themes in dealing with these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e653	I did not comment on that in my post, because I expected the representative Karin Andersen to take a reply. But since she did not, I can confirm that the Council of State agrees with the views of the case-rapporteur on these matters and, of course, has brought the Storting's understanding of this into the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e658	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e664	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e672	For this matter, a total of four proposals have been put forward. The following proposals are available: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: « State pension funds abroad
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e2119	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: « State pension funds abroad
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e5241	The President makes it clear that the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left are behind the vote, but the Left has announced that they want to vote against it. This means that the government parties and the Left are expected to vote against the option. So it's going to be a sharp hooting, and here the hall should tighten up so we get the right result!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e7405	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e7415	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-13.ana.ud258e7427	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
