ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e98	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are being debated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e125	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e134	It is with pleasure that I can now present the position of the Business Committee on the agricultural settlement of the year. There are at least two good reasons for this: firstly, there was agreement with both the Small and Low Farmers, and secondly, it is a robust and forward-looking settlement, fully in line with the objectives of the agricultural notification. The opposition parties have a number of proposals in the case, but only the Progress Party is proposing to reject the agreement. All the others are behind it. I take it for granted that the representatives of the opposition parties themselves promote their various proposals. The objective of the agricultural notification of increased food production as a result of population growth is very central. The agreement further increases the focus on cereals, beef and vegetables and increases production in areas where market opportunities are good. Then it's important to have good profitability, for both recruitment and further development. I guess we're not quite there yet, but we're on our way. We are taking action in line with the agricultural communication and with the channelling policy as a central tool. Together with border protection, it is this policy that underpins our ability to have agriculture throughout the country. In cooperation with agriculture, we in the government parties will work to further develop agriculture, taking into account all the opportunities and challenges of our diverse nature and climate. There is therefore also a need to strengthen the commitment to training and competence. I am pleased that the farmers almost without exception define this year's agreement as a good deal, yes as a breakthrough to ensure satisfactory profitability development in agriculture. This is in stark contrast to the reality of the right hand party and the description of the agreement. I am well aware that the industry situation is not rosy – there are plenty of challenges. And although much is being directed at now, with better depreciation rules, tax changes, etc., it also needs to be easier to finance investments in order to develop and modernise operations. That's not what we're talking about. But the biggest threat facing agriculture, in my view, is the possibility of a government change. As the right-wing parties formulate agricultural policy, it will be dramatic. Large cuts in transfers and priority for larger units where the profitability is best for agriculture will have major structural consequences and lead to a reduction in rural agriculture. Then I'll point to the forestry. The whole value chain is in a very demanding situation. The government is following the situation closely and has taken important action in both last year’s and year’s revised national budget. Farm-forestry needs to play a more valuable role in many districts, including: on the west and northwards. Both forestry and public authorities must take responsibility. In coastal forest use, there is a lack of infrastructure. There is also a lack of tradition and culture for cooperation. It is therefore important to prioritise instruments for coastalforestry within an overall framework — in dialogue with forest owners and so that the coastal forest management team has a central role to play. Finally, I recommend that the Stortinget vote in favour of this year's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e155	The Progress Party is strongly critical of the agricultural policy pursued in the post-war period and continued by the current government. We cannot therefore in any way stand behind the negotiated agricultural agreement, because it does not offer any new direction in agricultural policy – despite the fact that there is a great need for a policy reorientation. Despite the fact that the red-green government announced a strong change in agricultural policy when it came to power, this has not happened. This year, too, there was a big gap between the requirement submitted by the farmers' organisations and the offer that came from the state. The offer from the State is approx. half of the initial requirement of the peasant organisations. The Party of Progress is of the opinion that a normal market-based system for agricultural products governed by supply and demand must be established. In the case of under-coverage in the market, the producer will be able to take a higher price, while the consumer can choose other products if the price of a product is too high. In that case, the prices of the products will vary in line with the market and the producers must be market-oriented in their production. In a situation that today, where consumers demand more than the Norwegian farmer can produce, a market-based system will contribute to higher production. In a market-based system, competition between manufacturers will also arise, leading to better products, innovation and more cost-effective production. This will contribute to better income opportunities for those producers who are skilled and innovative and who are good businessmen. We believe that market-based systems operate in all other markets, and therefore there is no reason to exempt agriculture from them. It is very regrettable to note that since the year's agricultural settlement was presented so late in the session, it was not possible to hold a committee hearing on the matter, as is usual. The Progress Party regrets that the government's management of the agricultural settlement did not allow the other organisations in or related to agriculture the opportunity to promote their views on the agricultural settlement in these consultations. Due to the arrangements for agricultural negotiations, these organisations have already been deprived of their ability to influence directly in the negotiations and directly affect the final result. The year’s agricultural settlement clearly makes its exclusive aspects visible to the other business organisations. We have received several enquiries from actors who feel that this government does not equate all the actors. I will refer you from a letter sent to all lots from several of the actors in the egg and poultry industries: The usual market mechanisms also work in the egg value chain. When there is too much or too little egg, automatic grips are made in the value chain to try to adapt demand and supply. There may be price adjustments to increase or decrease sales. Other measures are, for example: change in packaging format, design, quality sorting, changed location in store, adaptation of production in egg products factories, imports, etc. The market for eggs is not static, but constantly evolving and changing. Neither for consumers nor for the egg sector is «an egg a egg» anymore. Today, there are several qualities that most people accept that they are not able to replace each other in the market without delay, cf. qualities such as organic, free-range, environmental cages, sun-yellow plums, pre-cooked without shells, etc. It is a mistake to conclude that when Nortura defines that the company has a surplus of eggs, there are too many eggs in the market. Not least because there are regulatory measures that are initiated on forecasts. The error margins we see in today's market forecasting, which means that disposals by market regulators are based on these, can pose major challenges to private egg packaging. In addition, the practice of the legislation requires that private egg packers wishing to make use of the universal service obligation provide, on a monthly basis, sensitive information on the company’s market position to their largest competitor. At the same time, they are cut off from using the market regulation in months they buy eggs from Nortura. Together, this leads to a serious distortion of competition. This is reinforced by the fact that Nortura can use the co-financed market regulation to balance its own volume in terms of quantity and qualities. Private operators must always adapt to the market in order to secure a reserve. Nortura may choose to use common funded regulation to adapt its production and quality portfolio to the market at different risks. As ‘receivable producers’, they will receive settlement after what can be characterised as a basic price on eggs. For many producers, such a level of prices would not provide a basis for pursuing economically sound progress. In other words, it is not possible to proceed properly with the system today. This shows that market regulation in agriculture is distorting competition and destroys healthy competition in the market, which first affects private industrial enterprises and, finally, consumers. I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is on its own and which are in common with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e183	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e186	To the right is that we follow the committee in the position, we stand behind the negotiations that have been, and the settlement that has been agreed upon. At the same time, we will comment on part of the position in this case. First, the major fraction of the Committee indicates that the target price increases in the agricultural holding can be significantly implemented on the basis that the government adopted a percentage duty on some toll lines relating to cheese and meat in the context of the 2013 State budget. Then it is with amazement that we can read the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, where it appears that the increase in the price of the agricultural agreement cannot be directly linked to the six lines of trade which were given increased customs protection. Agricultural policy is complicated, and settlement is also relatively complicated. Here, it's so complicated that you haven't been able to communicate within the government fractions what could be the basis for the price increase and the numbers that are there. That's weird. In addition, when we know that some of the customs increases that came have been controversial – not very controversial with respect to the law, but controversial with respect to the process – and when we know that in a significant market that the EU is perceived as being far from protectiveist, we are surprised that there is so much internal disagreement about what mechanisms apply, what rates have been adopted, and, above all, what effect they have. We are perceived as protectionist in this matter, and it should therefore be in the right's interest to improve the processes when we are going to change customs protection, so that they are justified and better anchored with our trading partners. We would also like to comment that the settlement is so late that we have to go along with the traditional democratic processes, such as. consultation, in this kind of case. It should have been here earlier, so that in the committee we had the usual process that we've used. I would also like to comment quickly on the change in local self-determination. We have experienced – strangely with the Central Party in government – that central power is getting stronger and that area issues are now increasingly being brought into central governance and decided there. We therefore weaken local self-government and local democracy, strangely, with a party as district-profiled as the central party in government. So I'll briefly mention a little bit about the price equalization scheme on milk. There it is that you can't generally see a competitive image. The price-balancing system was introduced and included elements in it to increase competition in the dairy sector, so that over many years we have tried to have mechanisms to ensure that there are more actors. We have Q-meieries and we have TINE. It should be that the system was so good and competition so good that even more players emerged, at least it is so for the Right that it is worrying that we are now weakening competition with the regulatory change we are getting under the milk price equalisation system. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions we are making from the Right. One is about adjusting the periodicalisation of the agricultural holding to follow the calendar year, following the usual budgetary year. The second is that from the Right we propose to wind up the Norwegian export subsidies for cheese production through the sales tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e201	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e204	The agricultural negotiations and the main agreement for agriculture are important concerns of Norwegian agricultural policy, and the negotiating table gives organisations power and responsibility. This year’s agricultural agreement, signed by both agricultural organisations and the state, provides the basis for a positive development in Norwegian agriculture. The biggest communication on agricultural and food policy is the basis for the year’s negotiations. The main objectives of the agricultural notification are food security, agriculture throughout the country, increased value creation and sustainable agriculture. The message adds to increased food production, while emphasising the use of national resources for roughage and pasturage. Agriculture is also an important supplier of many social goods, and there is a basis for many communities around the country. The development of income has been a central element of the agricultural negotiations. The parties have agreed that income trends over the last few years have been consistent with the provisions of the statement. The agreement this year provides a basis for an increase in income of NOK 31000 per year. Some of the income growth comes from increases in the target price. The customs adjustments made in connection with the 2013 state budget are an important element of this increase in revenue. Good income trends are also important in the years to come in order to achieve the objectives of agricultural policy. It is important to ensure the recruitment of agriculture, and it is important to maintain the area and food production. The Agriculture Communication pointed out that we are facing major challenges in parts of Agder/Telemark, coastal and fjords in the West, North Norway and the mountains of South Norway. The parties to the agricultural settlement have this year been agreed to set up a working group to look at how we can target the use or area of special operational disadvantages. This applies, for example: steep area, small cadastral parcels or edge zones. SV expects this selection to come up with concrete proposals that can help keep the area of special operating disadvantages up and continue to operate. It is important to maintain a varied structure of use, and it is important for active agriculture throughout the country. The agricultural notification focused on food production based on national resources such as roughage and pasturage. It is important to make good use of national resources, and it is important to make us less dependent on imported feed. For this reason, in recent years the government has strengthened grass-based livestock production. This year, the parties have agreed to increase the yield to grazing and to pasture. SV is committed to facilitating the increased use of roughage and grazing, which are important national resources. The food chain selection demonstrated a strong concentration of power at the distribution and retail stages. In addition, we often have strong vertical integration. This could threaten agricultural cooperation and market regulation, which is an important part of Norwegian agricultural policy. The food chain selection recommended, inter alia: to establish a law on good trade practices. The government dropped a law selection that was co-ordinated and proposed to establish such a law. It is important to follow up this work in order to reduce the unfortunate impacts of power concentration. The opposition party has a great deal of space to criticise the agricultural policy of the government party. But maybe they should look at each other a little bit. It's interesting, but also alarming, to register the very rift between the government parties in this area. The Christian People's Party is close to the government in its policy. But the Progress Party is continuing its policy of rapprochement. They cut the transfers dramatically and will also weaken customs protection. With such a policy, rural agriculture will disappear, and we will have centralised agriculture based on imported feed. As a result, real self-sufficiency will be greatly reduced, and we will face a situation of poor food security. Let's imagine farmers in Austland, on Jären, and maybe in some more areas, who feed mainly on maize from Brazil, or with other imported raw materials. There is no farming that SV looks forward to. But not enough of that, when the farmers move from a village, the entire village can be laid down. In fact, the Progress Party is in the process of changing the Norwegian map through the collapse of their agricultural policy. Right, as in any other context of this election struggle, is more impenetrable. It's a little hard to figure out if they're on the Progress Line, or just a little bit between them without being clear. What is quite clear is that now the Christian People's Party is going to get a little bit of a job to draw both the Right and the Advance Party into a sensible agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e230	The President wants to ask Mr Bakke-Jensen if there are not two proposals in the position that are unique to the Right and whether the representative intended to take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e233	That's who I picked up, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e238	Then it's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e242	Let me first reject the criticism from the Right and the Advance Party relating to consultation in the Committee. It was an overall committee that decided that there was no need for an ordinary hearing this year, but the possibility for those who wanted to send written recordings. It is therefore completely wrong when the Right Party and the Advance Party make a point of this in this debate. So to the very thing: in the Central Party we are very pleased that this year we have reached agreement with agriculture on an agricultural agreement. In particular, it is good that we have an agreement with both trade unions. This year's agreement is solid and forward-looking and provides for increased income opportunities for food producers and for increased food production. The agricultural settlement is essentially about what kind of food Norwegian families are going to eat. It's about Norwegian jobs, and it's about Norway still going to be the country we know. The central party calls for the three pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy, which are customs protection, agricultural settlements and the role of cooperatives. All three of these supports are on call for autumn. If these supports disappear, it means the end of Norwegian agricultural policy as we know it, and it will result in a completely different and much weaker agriculture. An income increase of NOK 31000 per year shows a government that believes in Norwegian food production in the future. The agreement provides for an improvement in the availability of income, which is a key instrument for achieving the agricultural policy objectives. This is an important start for us in the Center Party, and of course we will continue this crucial work. We hope the agreement can create a belief that the government is serious about the goal of increased food production on Norwegian resources, and we register that, among other things. Norway’s Bondelag confirms that this is a better agreement than in many years. Due to the customs changes made to the Central Party last autumn, it has been possible to increase the prices of some agricultural products in this year's agricultural settlement. All food producers benefit from increased prices, but those with a high output will benefit more from it than those with a low output. The main emphasis of budgetary resources in the year's agricultural settlement has therefore been on rural agriculture and on the smallest producers to give all operators in the industry the best possible income growth. Farming itself had an impact in this year’s agreement on its two main priorities, which were cereals and cattle. Grain farmers who currently have an average income per year of approximately NOK 120000 are now receiving an increase of more than NOK 50000 per year. In cattle, of which too little is produced in Norway today, we have received a new quality grant, which will increase production and quality. This subsidy is paid directly to the farmer in connection with the slaughtering operation. After the year's settlement, we have to sit down and look forward to it. It will then be important to pay even more attention to the development of small and medium-sized applications. I want more priority for vulnerable districts, with emphasis on milk and other roughage and pasturage-based productions in the future. Norwegian food production is important. The arrangement gives me faith in a future with still known, safe Norwegian food for the population. This provides opportunities for young food producers to continue, and not least to increase, the production of safe, short-range Norwegian food. Before the red-greens took over in 2005, there had been 25 years without real wages growth in Norwegian food production. In the first seven years, we had settlements that gave income opportunities with about the same crown growth as other groups. This year's settlement comes as a result of the food report that we provided, and shows the direction we're going to. The choice for the harvest can be good or not for Norwegian food producers and the safety of what we put on the table is of good and well-known quality. As leader of Nils Bjørke so clearly, it said at the annual meeting of Norway's Bondelag last week: there is much at stake. The centre party is committed to developing policies so that we achieve the goals that can ensure future food production, and a security for future food production throughout the country. Therefore, soil protection is also a very important matter for us. The aim is now to limit re-disposal to less than 6000 decaries per year. This is, in our view, an ambitious target — the high figures that existed in the 1990s and towards 2005 taken into account. Although we have achieved a lot on the soil protection side in recent years, I agree that we still have to work hard to keep the disposal figures down. There should therefore be no doubt that soil protection will remain very high on the agenda for us in the Centre Party. The Government includes the agricultural agreement of the year important steps towards sealing the agricultural income gap to other groups. This doesn't come of itself. The centre party has been in charge of Norwegian agriculture, and it has called for both will and strength. We know what's going on, and we're going to keep fighting for agriculture and to increase the income of the Norwegian farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e276	The Christian People's Party wants to build up under the active peasant and secure agriculture in all parts of the country. This is essential for achieving the food production targets set by the Stortingen about a year ago, and for maintaining housing in the districts and a living cultural landscape. A prerequisite for well-recruited living agriculture is that agriculture provides income to live on. Unfortunately, we see that there is an income gap between actors in agriculture and other groups. This gap increased considerably after last year's meager offer from the state was the result of agricultural organisations breaking the negotiations on agricultural settlement. Worst was the case for pig and egg producers, but some cereal and dairy farmers have also experienced a significant reduction in income in the last year. So they didn't just get a lower income increase than other groups, they're also left with less than they had last year. This year's settlement is described as good, and there are many people who have stood behind the result and praised it. I want to pay tribute to the organisations that this year they have got the government on new ideas and have managed to draw the year's settlement in the right direction. At the same time, I record that the relatively generous end result later on is a reverse operation away from the government's previous agricultural income policy. It is striking that this year's settlement, which undoubtedly softens the centre party's electoral basis, had such a favourable outcome in an election year. I assume that the change in the pace of government policy is due to a new understanding and a greater understanding of the demands of the organisations, and not the electoral strategy, for the agricultural settlement is too important to be used as an instrument in the election campaign for a party and a government in opposition. The Christian People's Party nutrient fraction has spent a lot of time going deeper into the number material of the proposition. By comparing figures and comparing income trends in agriculture with wage developments for all groups of employees, we have reached some interesting conclusions. In particular, it is the lack of willingness to compare income trends in agriculture with other groups that makes the government's claims for a very good settlement slightly misleading. At the bottom of page 30 of the proposal, there is a very interesting table with the heading Wages and salaries for all groups of employees. Here we find figures from the Technical Calculation Committee for Income Statements. They show that if we see 2013 and 2014 as a whole, the average income growth expected for ordinary employees will be NOK 35 500. If the agricultural figures are isolated, the result of this year's agricultural settlement seems impressive. However, compared with the average wage trend for other employees, it appears that agriculture is again losing out. This will include, inter alia: of the fact that agriculture as a whole, and in particular the average reference use for milk/borf and cereals, has had a significantly weaker income trend over the period 2012–2013 than forecasts up to last year. Thus, an agricultural settlement this year that is useful does not even prevent the income gap from further increasing between agriculture as a whole and other groups of employees. Some numbers from the proposition can make this concrete: If we compare the forecast of income trends in 2012–2014 for agriculture as a whole and for all groups of employees, the gap increases by approx. 500 kroner during the two-year period. If we compare the forecast for income development 2012–2014 for reference use of milk and cattle, 22 year-old cows and all groups of employees, the gap increases by a total of 17 600 kroner over the two-year period. These figures are obtained from the weak economic development of agriculture last year in relation to other groups, and in addition, the income development of the other employees group is taken into account for the years 2013 and 2014. Thus, our conclusion is that last year and this year as a whole, settlements show a trend that does not deliver the promise needed to strengthen agriculture. On the contrary, the gap for some important reference uses is increasing, and for agriculture as a whole, one can barely keep pace with average wage developments for other employees. The agricultural organisations have done their utmost in the negotiations, but no longer was the government willing to reach out. Nevertheless, there are also things to rejoice over in the year’s settlement of friends of Norwegian agriculture: for some groups, settlement will undoubtedly result in a positive income trend. This applies in particular to producers of plant products such as potatoes and cereals. For the largest dairy farms, too, this year's settlement provides a good economic boost. Increased investment in agriculture is needed to renew the plant and thus improve its profitability. Good investment schemes play a major role in the recruitment of agriculture and in achieving the objectives of increased food production and agriculture across the country. It is therefore necessary for the industry to have access to instruments that reduce the economic burden of long-term investment. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is important to strengthen investment arrangements in agriculture. An investment package, as proposed by the Agriculture Negotiations Committee, could have contributed to this. The Christian People's Party will stimulate increased equity by investing, and want to establish a fund provision scheme with tax advantages based on the pattern of the forest fund. On this basis, I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party as they proceed from the Inner East. 508 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e312	There is one proposal from the Christian People's Party, but the President assumes that the proposals contained in the Inner East too. 507 S, is being recorded. There are six proposals from the Christian People's Party on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Shall we look at those who have taken up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e315	No, the Innst proposals. 507 S will be taken up by Geir Jørgen Bekkeword.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e320	No, well, then they have to be addressed later. The representative Steinar Reiten then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e325	Now that we're dealing with agriculture for 2013, it's in place to stop and reflect on over eight years of red-green agricultural policy. Every use laid down is a defeat for the government, said the Central Party's first Minister of Agriculture under the red-green, Terje Riis-Johansen. There have indeed been many defeats to digest. ==References== 6 500 in total, or more than two uses per day, have been closed after eight years with the Central Party in the Ministerial Court of Agriculture. Nevertheless, yesterday's solutions are being questioned. I meet more and more people who say that there was at least nothing worse to be in agriculture under the previous government. What I often hear is that under the previous government the farmers knew what they could expect, the policy that was promised was held, and it was a clear direction and will in politics: "We could like it or not, but we knew at least what we could relate to. It has been completely impossible in the last eight years.» Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian agricultural policy need to be re-orientated. The framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture were designed several decades ago and, in the view of the Left, there has been a need for strong modernisation. It is not appropriate to achieve today’s stated objectives for housing, employment, food security and income levels, nor to achieve the Left’s objectives of animal welfare and more environmentally friendly agriculture. The number of operational uses and the number of active farmers are falling rapidly, and the same trend will continue with the agricultural agreement of the year. The agricultural policy of the left is based on the farmer as a self-employed person. The agricultural policy of the future must therefore be designed in such a way as to give each farmer a greater room for action, greater freedom and with a reasonable degree of economic security at the bottom. The left will therefore have a forward-looking agricultural policy based on good grant schemes combined with simplification. There is a need for a review of the entire agricultural contract institute, with the aim of amending and simplifying the negotiations to deal exclusively with instruments which have a direct impact on farmers’ income opportunities. The other areas currently covered by the agricultural agreement should be ordinary budget lines as defined by the Storting. This will be more democratic than today's system, take the negotiations out of the meeting rooms and give the Storting a clearer responsibility. The left wants a full review of the comprehensive agricultural legislation with a view to strong modernisation, fewer forms, simpler guidelines and gradual changes in market regulation. Unnecessary red tape and legislation that impedes the daily lives of the farmer must be removed. In concrete terms, the Left will remove the right to vote, remove the prohibition of division in the law of the land and have a strong decoration in price control and housing related to agricultural property. Individual farmers must also have the opportunity to organise their operations as a limited liability company and otherwise organise their activities as any other self-employed or small enterprise. Some words about the proposal for a representative on strengthening soil protection that we are discussing with the agricultural settlement for 2013. The left will strengthen soil protection. Soil protection is a prerequisite for our descendants to have the opportunity to produce their own food on their own soil. Climate change can change food production conditions across the globe and increase the need for enhanced soil protection. The left will therefore strengthen soil protection in order to ensure protection against irreversible changes in particularly valuable productive agricultural land. The left will replace, as far as possible, land which is re-disposed for expansion purposes with new cultivated area with the same value for production. The left therefore shares the basic position of the rapporteurs, but believes that some of the proposals are too detailed and too rigid to allow us to vote in favour of them. The left also shares the view expressed by most parties that good agronomy, new technologies and new and forward-looking forms of production will help to increase food production. The left will therefore vote in favour of minority proposals Nos. 1 and 2 of the Input. 507 S. The left will also vote for the 2013 agricultural settlement, as we have the tradition of supporting negotiated agreements. At the same time, we give our wholehearted support to minority proposals No. 1-11, 22 and 23 of the Innst. 508 S, on agricultural production 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e352	Yesterday and yesterday I was in Rome, and it was one theme that dominated the agenda: how are we going to manage to secure the world's access to 70 pst. more food? That was the main theme. When we discuss Norwegian agricultural policy, that's what we need to bring with us, because why is what we have an agricultural policy? We have an agriculture just to produce the most important commodity of all, namely food. It's a huge challenge we're facing internationally, we're going to be able to increase access to food by 70 pst. And why do we have to increase by so much? Well, because we become more people, and because there are several who want to live like you and me, eat meat, eat better nutritionally, take a beer, have a better standard of living in China and India. This makes the world’s demand for food increasing dramatically, while entering a period where the climate is likely to become more unstable, so that producing food in many of the areas that are currently facing challenges becomes more difficult. The agricultural and food message, Welcome to the table, which we discussed in Stortinget last year, began with the international rug. The government first decided that one of our contributions to the debate on increasing world food production is that we should increase our national food production. That goal was also endorsed by the Storting: with our small agriculture, it is an objective that we should do our part in the global promise of increasing the world’s food production – therefore, the goal that begins to receive broad political support, that we should increase food production in Norway by 1 pst. every year. The fact that we have an agricultural policy in Norway has enormous ring-effects. In my county, Hedmark, is 10 pst. of all employed persons in agriculture and the food industry. The same number can be found in the North Tree Layer, we'll find almost the same number in the counties as for example. Upland and Sogn and Fjordane, we find it in district municipalities by district municipality. It has a huge effect, creates a lot of jobs, creates a lot of added value. I feel that all the parties are for that, too; they praise it and say it's great that you have food businesses, for example. Tine in Elneswagen, with all the jobs it creates. But this doesn't come of itself, and that's where the political differences are so big. Farming in Norway is demanding, and it requires action. And there's no industry and almost no policy area where the differences are greater in this room. Now I want to review what are the pillars of agricultural policy: Item No 1 is customs duties: our country is cold, wet and steep, and it is not easy to compete with e.g. Danish or French non-tariff agriculture. You need some kind of customs protection. Since the government chose to make improvements in that field last fall, I have been mildly surprised by the enormous commitment over time Right, the Progress Party and the Left have shown in the fight against the Norwegian food industry and Norwegian agriculture. Left called it protectionism at its worst. Svein Fleet, from the Right, proclaimed that he would remove the customs change before he had taken off his coat. The Progress Party set up Norwegian agricultural policy against Norwegian gas exports in the European Committee for Agricultural Policy. There has been enormous creativity in attacking the idea of strengthening one of the pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy, namely customs. The rate of customs duty we did last autumn has been a premise for the agricultural settlement of the year, and that is the second pillar: in Norway we design agricultural policy in close dialogue between the authorities and industry. It is not just one person, the Minister of Agriculture, who defines agricultural policy. He does that together with a little over 40,000 farmers, who are organized through peasants and small farms. We discuss together what solutions we are going to be able to get, and what course you are going to take in the future. Thanks to the customs procedure last autumn, we were able to present this year a scheme that provided a real opportunity for an increase in income. It was a raise that was $12,000 higher than for other groups, because it was necessary if we are to achieve the goal of increasing food production in Norway by 1 pst in the long term. Every year. Last year we saw that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left attacked the customs change. In the vote now and before in debates, the Right and Advance Party have been attacking the agricultural agreement system with full force; they do not want to have the close interaction with the industry that we now have. They want to move the agricultural agreement system out of the spring, and it's going to be part of the regular budget process in the autumn. It will weaken agricultural power and influence over agricultural policy. The Norwegian model, that we have managed to have this close cooperation between industry and state, has been a success. What the Right Party and the Advance Party think about the role of the cooperative is well known. The differences are very clear. This year's settlement was a settlement where the government showed willingness to escalate. In the seven preceding years, we went from a period where getting a chronically equal development was almost an impossible idea. But we have made that clear in the period up to the settlement of the year. There has been a chronically similar development between agriculture and other groups. This year we were able to give it the extra promise, with NOK 12,000 more. It's a step in the right direction, and we're going to continue for four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e380	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e383	A former State Council member of the Council has stated that every abandoned use is a defeat. In 2005, while the red-green government has been in power, more agriculture has actually been closed around the whole country than ever before in Norwegian history. Three uses are closed in the day and 21 in the week with this government. My question to the Council of State will be: Is the Council of State satisfied with developments? Does not the Council of State not see that the policy that has been pursued has gone bankrupt?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e390	First of all, the premises in the question are not correct. I am a little surprised by the crocodile tears of the representative of the Progress Party in terms of the number of abandoned uses, when I know what policy the Progress Party itself is calling for, both in terms of customs and in terms of the last year's budget, where they cut 5 500 million. in transfers. It is not possible to measure the success of Norwegian agriculture according to the number of hours spent in Norwegian agriculture, because there is no doubt that when the grandfather drove the farm with a horse at first, he spent several hours driving the farm than I do today with a large tractor. Nor can it be seen as a defeat that a farmer has used a milking robot on his farm, and spends fewer hours in the poultry than before he had a milking robot. There's a technological development going on, it's been happening all along, and it's also going to happen in the future. But Norway is the country it is. At some point, economies of scale – distances are becoming too large – can be huge, and therefore we need a targeted agricultural policy that can make it profitable to use both large and small quantities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e401	I'm not going to spend a lot of time on the post of the Council of State here, because it's remarkable that you're going to basically run politics with a rhetoric that contains so many mistakes about the politics of others. It must be better to spend time defending yourself. I have a specific question to the Council of State, which is relevant to the milk, milk and dairy price equalisation system. Can the Council of State explain to me the main inputs in having a competitive milk production and dairy sector? What do the Council of State think are the main inputs for this significant part of agriculture to be a robust and competitive sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e411	First, I want to ask the representative Bakke-Jensen to document the claim that I said something wrong in my post, because I did not. He would like to document that later, in his next article. So to the question of the milk price equalisation scheme: there is a system that ensures several purposes. One of those aims, according to the article, is to remove the possibility of exporting Jarlsberg. As a result, Tine’s plant has to be laid down in Elnesvågen – directly. Another purpose for which we use the milk price equalisation scheme is to ensure conditions of competition that enable both the Q-meierines and Synnove Find to be able to compete in the Norwegian milk market and to obtain more products. And when you look at developments in the last year, both Synnove Finden and the Q-meierien have developed new products. They have become part of the diversity of Norwegian groceries trade, and we believe that the adjustments we have made to the PU system now still ensure good opportunities for further development for both the Q meieries and Synnove Find.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e420	In the negotiated framework for the agricultural settlement of the year, we noticed that 50 million. kr has been transferred from the settlement of the previous year. That's not a negligible sum. It's closer to 4 pst. of the frame. On several occasions, the Council of State and the undersigned have been in dialogue with regard to the funeral grant, which has been very delayed, and where the regulation has not been put in place until recently. In the Christian People's Party we have a legitimate suspicion that these 50 million. NOK is the money you have not been able to spend on grants for burial, which has now been transferred. The Council of State has previously told me that he categorically rejects the fact that the money that has not been used should have been transferred to the next year. Can the Council confirm that this is not the money that we might think it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e431	I can confirm that hopefully it'll be spent 100 million. kr on ditching in the autumn, and that people will dig and be active in that respect. I can confirm that the funds earmarked for ditching are to be used for ditching. It's now set with a new 100 million. kr, so that more can be buried next year. With the 100 million. kr that was set aside for it last year, and the 100 million. Allowances made this year may give rise to an uplift in the case of ditching. It is a necessary and proper measure, which the government has given priority to, and which the Committee also supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e438	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e443	Peasants are no different than us other people. They must also have money to live off. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party, when we negotiated with the government last year, to put in place a wage development that was good for the farmers. We didn't do this. I think that's a pity, because the Christian People's Party wanted to secure farmers, as the self-employed they are, the opportunity to significantly reduce the income differences that they have to other professional groups. The settlement we are now discussing was, when it was presented, described as a historical settlement. I noticed that the Council of State closed its contribution by saying that settlement is a step in the right direction. Then at least a little bit of the historical stuff is taken down. Another decisive input for the farmers is that they have land. We have to take care of our Earth in a better way than what we've done in the last generation. Too much good food has been built down. That is why the Christian People’s Party today has made a proposal that we should have a goal in relation to how much is to be redispatched. We have to set up a land substitute fund, and when land is to be sold, the income should not be taxed by 50 pst. when you have to invest in the farm again. I think it's so simple when it comes to agricultural policy: whether we have an agricultural policy that works, we discover when the next generation is going to take over. This is when we experience whether we have put an attractive agricultural policy on the table. The Christian People's Party wants to make it attractive for new generations to take over. We wish, among other things: exempting the next generation from inheritance tax and viewing it as a family business. Today, 46 000 people go to work in the food industry – they either have gone or they have to go. They're going to cut chicken fillets to us that we can fry this weekend, they're going to make juice that we can drink when it gets hot out there. The food industry is innovative. They receive R & D over in production. The food industry in Norway is completely dependent on Norwegian raw materials, so it is essential for these 46 000 jobs that we have framework conditions that enable the business to be maintained in Norway. Although we are a good country to live in, we must remember that Norway is a small country in the world and that we have neighbours. We must also remember this when we discuss agricultural policy in relation to the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e458	The basis for food production is green plants, whether they are eaten directly or further processed by our domestic animals. In a troubled world of strong population growth and major climate change, all countries must exploit their natural conditions for the production of plants. Today we don't. Despite very little soil per capita and large population growth, we are reducing agricultural land and at the same time weakening the productive capacity of the soil. The degree of maritime supply is falling. A new course is needed, where increased food safety is most important. A new course must be based on natural conditions for food production. Then there is no basis for economies of scale in volume, either in primary production or in the processing industry. If governments continue to give priority to economies of scale under our conditions, it requires access to cheap imports of wheat and soya, transition from family agriculture to company agriculture – for Norwegian working conditions replaced by cheap Eastern European labour – and subsidies from the state to non-constructed operational buildings. Increased food safety can only be achieved by increasing plant production in Norway. Therefore, a new course needs to focus on increased plant production, investments in new crops and grasslands, mowing and liming in order to increase the area under cultivation and improve fertility in soil. This must be given priority over the use of government appropriations for the establishment and development of poultry where the operation is based on imported cereals. The latter leads to strong regional concentration, pollution pressures and associated large unutilised agricultural areas. A new course must aim to find a sustainable, profitable and long-term management of the land through increased emphasis on soil and plant culture. Only green plants can capture carbon dioxide through photosynthesis. Its more and more greener plants, the greater power in the fight against the climate crisis. We're going to need plants that can withstand a different climate, and we're going to have to use machines that give less soil packaging. We need increased emphasis on animal welfare. The agricultural agreement this year has been moving in the right direction. Suffering from late customs changes is a step by step conversion of customs protection both for agriculture and for the processing industry. Today's government has realised that increased customs protection is necessary. Producer prices must rise. They currently cover barely variable costs. Customs protection must be used in conjunction with the market power of cooperative organisations in order to ensure a necessary domestic producer price level. The agricultural agreement this year is a recognition by the government that agricultural incomes must be raised in relation to other groups. It is important that the figures are based on actual accounts in the future. In the future, the agricultural agreement must be simplified. Agricultural policies are often produced as difficult. But it's not like that. But there is a difficult balance between market opportunities on the one hand and the mode of production, i.e. the amount of land occupied, labour and capital on the other. The effect of the measures may take some time, but the direction must be clear. Direction must be reversed to strengthen area and work. Large investment grants in buildings in a saturated market are an instrument that causes a fall in market prices and forces more out of industry, in practice through increased processing of imported feed. It reduces both the production of cereals and the use of grass in the fields. The grain price is the strongest single factor in protecting the value of grass and pasture. Higher prices of cereals give higher values of grass. The grain is a key factor in food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e477	Last week I was on a company visit to Nortura in Sogndal. There I was once again reminded of the importance of pursuing an agricultural policy that means that we have living communities and produce food throughout the country, and that we have a good food policy. The red-green government has changed the course of agricultural policy. From 2005 until today, there has been an average increase in income of almost 126,000 kroner. Investment incentives have been stepped up, and several adjustments have been made to tax legislation, including: through increased depreciation rates, now the last in the revised state budget, where we increase the first year's depreciation rate by 10 pst., to 30 pst. For the first time, the income gap between farmers and others has been reduced in the year’s data. Nevertheless, we see that the farmers are struggling with the profitability. It is therefore important that we continue to mobilise all good forces to support Norwegian agriculture. It would be strange to hear the representative, Mr Reten and the representative, Mr Hemdal, today. If the Christian People's Party is half as busy with agriculture as is claimed, they should actually support a red-green government, and not a government where Siv Jensen can become a finance minister. In the agricultural report that was discussed in Stortinget, we state that the Norwegian food model should be passed. This includes, inter alia: that there should be agriculture throughout the country, with a varied operational and operational structure. In that case, a non-right-wing party can do what it wants, to have a market-driven agriculture, which will particularly affect busses and employment in the districts. The right hand side is clear that they also do not want to facilitate a different usage structure. We are seeing red-green circles about the agricultural agreement with state transfers and possibilities for price withdrawals in the market. This year, the right will cut agricultural transfers by 1.7 billion. kr, while the Progress Party will cut by 5.5 billion. We red-green think we should keep the role of market regulator within the interoperability model. Right to the market regulator role, it has to be evaluated and removed from the cooperatives. We red-green think that the import protection should be protected as a berry bar to protect food production. The right-hand party will not exploit the space for action in import protection, which will weaken its competitiveness and reduce its potential to sustain the volume production of Norwegian products. They added and led the Nortura was quite right: the food industry, with the right part, will become a hard frame. All those who are busy and happy in Norwegian agriculture should vote red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e496	There is a broad political consensus that food production should be increased. But if we're going to discharge our responsibility to produce food, we can't continue to destroy the most important prerequisite for food production, that's the food soil. In an increasingly evolving society, administrative responsibility becomes an increasingly important pillar, and for the Christian People's Party, soil protection is an important part of this management responsibility. Managing responsibility is about securing future generations the opportunities and rights that we now have. It's about value creation, and it's about food security. Soil degradation is an irreversible process. Over the past 50 years, over 1 million deer have been disposed of in Norway, and most of the re-disposal has gone down on the best food soil, i.e. cultivated land. Development seems to continue. Over the last 20 years, some 16 000 food soil targets have been built annually. We are still redispating at a rate above the target of halving the redisposal by 2010, determined by the Bondevik Government in 2004. So we are already in deficit for several years. That is why we propose that we step up the targets and halve the halving targets once again. In this way, we can come a step closer to the desire for a sustainable agricultural policy. We have seen a trend in recent years, where the number of decaves per capita has fallen dramatically, from 1.79 in 2008 to 1.63 in 2012. If this development continues, we will have a food ratio of 1.35 dekar per capita in 2030. This is alarmingly low at a time when food resources are sailing up as the most valuable resources on the world market. There is still an increasing level of protection from countries with high production, such as the United States, Russia and China. Therefore, it would be wise to set a national soil target, setting a minimum number of decakars of full-grown land per capita. One of the main challenges in Norwegian agriculture is to provide investments that can strengthen the operating base, and the Christian People's Party considers it crucial to improve tax rules at this point. Today, the gain is taxed on the sale of agricultural land as personal income by up to 50 p.m. We want a change, so that the gain on the sale of agricultural land is exempt from taxation if the gain is reinvested in the agricultural holding. Finally, I would also like to stress that there may be cases where soil protection has to give way to precarious expansion. In such cases, the Christian People's Party believes that it must be imposed on the builder to provide compensation for the equivalent renewal of twice the area disposed of, in order to maintain productivity. On this basis, I am promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party, as we see in the Inner East. 507 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e515	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e518	The Progress Party is often accused of blackmailing the situation in Norwegian agriculture. I take that as a statement that the Progress Party is right in its agricultural and forestry policy. The Red-Greens have been in power for eight years, and the Center Party has had the Council of State. The person who has had this job has been replaced when the noise has been at its worst. Improvements have been promised, but these improvements have not been made. The situation has at best been the same, while the Progress Party claims that when you look at facts, it has become worse. The fact is that there have become fewer farmers, and of these again there are fewer and fewer farmers who have the farming profession as sole proprietor. It has become more and more common that one of a couple has the job outside the farm. In the past, it was more normal that both had the job on the farm. The number of farms per day, per week, per month, per year, is constantly declining, even though the number of farms has decreased. So you could say that the percentage of the take-off is larger than in the past. The area covered by the deer is reduced and the new cultivation is minimal. The funeral grant is late, and there have been some problems with it. Unfortunately, the number of farms where houses are not used is also increasing. Being a nobleman or a nobleman has gone out of fashion, and the recruitment to take over is often further in the family – or it has to be sold. But with a maximum price, the number of farm sales is also very low. We had a storm of complaints from the farmers last year. There was a breach in the negotiations. This was very special. This year you're very satisfied, but you don't have to be a good analyst to see what pressure the government was putting on this year to meet the farmers. It's almost a choice. When a diet wears, you have to look at alternative solutions and think again. That's what the Progress Party does. That is why we are promoting a number of proposals, either alone or together with the rest of the opposition parties. It has to be revised, otherwise the industry will be completely wiped out in the long term. It does not help with ever more public transfers or e.g.: ostetoll. A farmer is a self-employed person, and then we have to give opportunities to develop the industry, so that the individual farmer finds his or her chances of success. Only then do we get an agriculture where the recruitment is not a problem. In the case of the forest industry — for which the Council of State is also responsible — it also wears down. Here the Progress Party shows, among other things: to its proposal, which was debated in the Chamber a few days ago. Unfortunately, they voted red-green – among others. The Central Party – down all our suggestions. It's not nice that the industry is struggling. Finally, I would like to thank you for the loan of this pulpit for 16 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e539	The agricultural settlement creates each of our tensions. In the Central Party we are very happy that it was an agricultural agreement this year, and that Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams signed. The agreement that the parties agreed on in our course is the first step on the way to re-close the pay gap between farmers and other professional groups. It was exciting to follow in the days after the agreement was signed, to see what kind of reactions came. It seems that the industry is satisfied that we have now started this escalation. In the Center Party, we are known to fight for the Norwegian peasant. But in reality, it's not just the farmer it's about. We are also fighting for food security and for it to be possible to buy safe, good and short-term food at the store. We in the Center Party have a lot of respect for Norwegian food production, and we know that the food produced here is much cleaner than most of the food we import. For example, food abroad is treated by a wide range of means that are not allowed to be used here in the country. Why does a potato from France look freshly picked in February, and why does an apple from southern Europe look smoother and nicer in the spring than the Norwegian apples do, if they have been over the winter? Both of these products have also been stored throughout the winter, but they have been treated with different substances that cannot be used by Norwegian farmers. I do not want the Norwegian farmer to be allowed to use these funds either. I want us to have as clean food as possible, and I want us to take our share of global responsibility by producing as much food as possible here in the country. It is not easy to hear either the Right Party or the Advance Party today either. The party only confirms that they want to phase out large parts of Norwegian agriculture and food production. They don't see the need for ostetoll. Clearly, they believe that the Norwegian farmer should compete with farmers in lands where they serve far, far less per hour. It has something to say for the settlement when they want to phase out parts of agriculture. Agriculture is essential for rural settlements, and important for jobs, not only in agriculture but also in further processing. The right is also of the opinion that we are a protectionist who wants a customs protection that makes it possible to produce food in Norway. In addition to the signals they have previously given in their alternative state budget, and the views of the negotiating institute and the cooperative, there is every reason to call out agricultural warnings regarding the choice of the harvest. This debate underlines that the decision to increase the harvest will be a policy choice. In particular, it will be for agriculture, for the possibility of maintaining active agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e553	For almost four years I have been sitting in my place in Stortinget and heard the agricultural policy spokesman of the Progress Party judge Norwegian agricultural policy north and down. The installation for Torgeir Tjäldal today was in this way in a well-known style and reasonably predictable. For four years we've heard doomsday prophecies about topics like butter, cream, ribs, sticks, eggs and chicken. Occasionally, the impression has been that the Norwegian population was in the process of entering a national famine. It peaked when the agricultural message came. There's every reason to believe that next year, too, we'll see that the stores are running out of important groceries because they don't open up to competition, said the representative of the Nations in December 2011. He announced that the Progress Party would start work on making an alternative message. We haven't seen anything about it either. Last year, the representative Torgeir Tåldal also said that with today's agricultural policy, the shops – once again – would run out of food. Customs protection and problems in border trade have been the favourite theme of the representative, Mr. Tåldal, during the period. Increased customs duties will affect consumers, there will be increased border trade and job losses – and now we have agricultural settlements. Well, we could say that it is we who supply the Swedes with Norwegian jobs. Nor has it affected the Norwegian fishing industry, as the opposition predicted. I go to the store quite often and can say with my hand on the heart that the selection has not gotten any worse – on the contrary. There is a diversity of Norwegian agricultural products in Norwegian shops. So the Progress Party believes that Norwegian agriculture has to compare with agriculture in New Zealand. It makes no sense to compare us to a country that produces for export. Here in the country we produce for the domestic market. Products from agriculture, forestry and fishing consisted in 2012 of 71 pst. of the exports from New Zealand. Agricultural products account for more than half of these exports. In addition, animals in that country can graze throughout the year, as the country has tempered the rainy climate with a small difference in summer and winter temperature. It is totally unrealistic to compare Norwegian agriculture with this country. So the Progress Party likes to compare us with Sweden and Denmark. Experience from Danish agriculture suggests that the free slip of the farmer far from being a magical recipe for success. One of Europe's most deregulated agriculture loses money, must have support, but still does not get into the positive. It speaks for us not to have similar policies in Norway. No, if we are to have any agriculture at all in this small country with such pig-grown areas, the state must play a major and important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e574	As the Council of State underlined in its statement, the international backstop remains so that we have a violent population growth, climate change, pressure on natural resources and a commodity price rise that has made food security a continuing high and ever-important national and international theme. The Storting Message, Welcome to the table, which we have recently discussed here in Stortinget, is the basis of the Norwegian model. Import protection – or customs protection, whether we call it – budget transfers, market organisations and target prices are important tools to achieve the goal of increasing Norwegian food production, and there is a recognition of the need to use policy instruments to achieve that objective. In the 1980s and 1990s and early 2000s, the Council adopted the view that the liberalisation of trade should save the world from hunger and distress. We've seen the result: there are even greater differences, even more starving. If we are to stop this food crisis, which one is working on in the FAO, international policy must be redefined. Bill Clinton admitted that there was one thing he had misjudged in his time as president, that of looking at groceries as an ordinary commodity. Food is not the same as nails. Clinton also believes that we need to go back to a policy based on a maximum of self-sufficiency, because it is absolutely wrong to believe that one can get development, for example. in developing countries without increasing their own ability to feed themselves. What is the answer from the Progress Party, and what is the answer from the Right? I think it is frightening that we are still having a debate on Norwegian agricultural policy about the solutions of the 1980s. In particular, the Progress Party, called the market-based system, believes that free trade, or the abolition of customs protection – as it does in the Right – and the breaking of transmissions should be good for both the world’s population and for Norway. We perceive that the Right and Advance Party in their rhetoric say yes to Norwegian agriculture, but they mean no. I am very pleased that the parties signed an agreement in the agricultural settlement of the year – of course I am. I would characterise the agreement as solid and stress the importance of both trade unions having concluded the agreement. It is a strength that one has a common understanding of the industry, both in terms of challenges and in terms of the way we will go in the future to address these challenges. This year's agricultural agreement underlines what is so good with the Norwegian model that an industry that depends on a number of instruments is itself involved in the formulation and implementation of policies. So the lines of policy now before the elections are ready. The size has had repeated debates on the transition from the krona to the percentage of customs duties on certain agricultural products, one of the premises that it would be possible to provide increased revenue opportunities in the year’s settlement. I record that the Right has rather jumped the EU than the agricultural agenda, but the criminal reactions they have feared have been rejected by the EU. [[President clubs]] We have innumerable quotes that the Right would reverse...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e591	The representative has no more speaking time. The idea is that when the clock is at zero, a country should not take off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e596	This is an interesting debate which, I think, clarifies the lines of policy well. Then I would like to say that there are several things about the Christian People's Party's agricultural policy that I have the sense of. It's positive that they seem to want more of our red-green agricultural policy. But then it is disappointing that they will cooperate with parties that want a completely different type of agriculture in Norway. We must therefore be able to establish that the Christian People's Party seems to be willing to sacrifice agriculture in order to ensure a change of government, and their promises to Norwegian farmers are in many ways less credible. So I have noticed that the comments of the Christian People's Party have a strange calculation of the income development for dairy farming. I believe that here the Christian People's Party makes a gross mistake. The average milk consumption receives more than NOK 30000 in the increase in income. How the representative gets this to be NOK 15 600 is incomprehensible to me. I have never claimed to be good at calculating, but I understand that it is also incomprehensible to the department. No, the Christian People's Party can trust us in the promises we give to Norwegian milk producers when we say that we are betting on them in the future. So the Progress Party votes against this year's settlement. In the past, the right has had a tradition of voting against the agreement, even in cases where the agreement has gained a high degree of support in agriculture after having been voted out. The tradition broke the right last year, when they voted for the agreement for the first time under the red-green regime. I am pleased that the Right has turned around and that they are now not so categorical that they will withdraw the agricultural agreement as the Institute. But I suspect them to operate with fogging also here. When we look at the Right Alternative Farm Message, which they came in last year, it's clear that they want a different direction. They also say that they want an evaluation of the agricultural agreement. What will be the impact of such an evaluation? Then I suspect that the Right will do as last year. When we come to the budgetary procedure for the autumn, there is a great deal to be done in the agreement that has already been concluded. The figures speak for themselves: Under the Bondevik II government, the agricultural and food department's appropriations were reduced by 630 million. kr. Under the Stoltenberg II Government, the appropriations have increased by 3000 million so far. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e611	There has been a lot of talk about food in the debate. Many people are happy with food, so I thought it was time for a user representative to take the floor in the debate. As usual when discussing agricultural policy, there will be some district policy. It is clear – agricultural policy is also district policy. But agricultural policy is something much more than that. The most important thing about agricultural policy is to produce food, a lot of food – and I want to add: there is a point that there is also food produced where there are people living, in popular areas of our country. Agriculture is a very important industry in Akershus. Akershus is a large agricultural group. In my childhood, we said that my home municipality, Nes in Rome, was the country's largest grain municipality. As far as I know, nothing has changed that. In Akershus, we've had strong growth in the population over the last decades, and it's going to continue. Many more want to live in our part of the country. Then we should also produce more food in those areas – more food near where people live. Cereals are the main production in Akershus and therefore the foundation of our food production. However, grain production costs on inputs higher than feed production. That gives us some challenges. That is why I very much welcome the signals that are now coming into the agricultural settlement, about the investment in cereals. But we have to be careful that Akershus doesn't just become a grain group – it should be, too, and it's still going to be the cornerstone. But I want more livestock, more grazing animals, back to Akershus. Many of the areas in the area are very suitable for grass and pasture. In many places the spring sons are not yet done – because of the flood that was in ours. We're writing today, June 19, and I guess we can establish that it's now late on. I've been with and sown 14 June, but as we approach Sankthans, we have to be able to establish that it's getting too late. With climate change, we will get more rain and more water. That's why more has to be buried. I am pleased with what the Minister of Agriculture said, of course, about the bet on ditching. Finally, I would like to say that another important point, which many farmers raise with us, is that it is important to have strong and active producer environments, that there are several producers who can develop the industry together. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e630	I would like briefly to comment on part of the contributions and the attacks on the Right Agricultural Policy. It is not that the Right is against customs protection – on the contrary. But we have pointed out that the process of changing customs protection and changing customs duties also needs to take up the picture that we have some trading partners outside the border. That's the criticism we've come up with about changes from the dollar to the dollar. We record that it would be nice for the government fraction in the play of a campaign to present it differently. But this is the fact. Nor is it the case that the Right is against cooperatives. We have said that how farmers organize their sales apparatus is basically not a political question. But we have said that market regulation and whether the objectivity of market regulation is sufficient is one thing we will look at. I record that the representative Heggø was up and notified that the government is now coming with start-up write-offs. Then I have to be allowed to correct, because this is a trick that the red-greens have done lately – that they are now delivering. Initial write-offs are announced, but will be returned to it in the 2014 budget. I will be allowed to inform those who are interested in initials, that the Right already delivers it in the revised budget for 2013. In conclusion, Mr Arne L. The Haugen, who believes that the right is against the agricultural agreement: of course that is not true. We have said that we will change the timing of its treatment, and we have notified an evaluation. It's a little strange that in the political environment you can attack a proposal to evaluate something. Sometimes you might want to mist, that there's something you don't want to look at. For the Right, it is always important to pick up key political issues and evaluate them. How do they function in relation to the time we live in? It is that no matter how long the red-green government sits, the world around us will change, and society in Norway will change. So sometimes it can be very good to go in and look at the tools we have: are they sufficient, or are they not sufficient? Finally, the Council of State was asked a simple question about what are the main inputs in a competitive picture of milk production and the dairy sector in Norway and whether he could mention only one input. The answer was in fact the Right in a proposal had gone against: the oyster gate. It was an important input. Otherwise, the council was quite so drowsy and couldn't be concrete at all. There can be no such thing as the most important inputs to the recovery of Norwegian agriculture at any time are the fields where you can attack the Right. The right has provided good agricultural policy, it is well received in the industry, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e645	Agricultural policy is complicated, perhaps it is also complicated for the Minister. We in the Right are concerned with ensuring a balance between the necessary management and control of the management systems and providing the market with the opportunity to gain enough innovation, enough ability to develop products, and enough ability to look at new distributions. At the same time, the Right bells are clear and acknowledge that with the natural assumptions we have for agriculture in this country, an agricultural settlement – an agricultural settlement – is necessary for the state budget. We recognise that, and then we'll have to discuss the size of those frameworks and the degree of freedom we should give to agriculture as a whole. At the same time, we are clear that we are critical of the mix of roles we see when cooperatives are also given the role of market regulator. It is demanding, and we see that it can be highly distortive. We are also concerned that we need to organise a policy that offers opportunities for diversity, innovation and creativity – to the benefit of manufacturers, distributors and, in particular, consumers. It must be consumers who are our focus area all the time. I have to refer from a letter dated 18 June 2013 to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food under political leadership. I am aware that the Minister of Agriculture has seen the letter, so it is not unknown. It has also been sent a copy to some political leaders. The letter is signed by four producers in the meat and poultry industries together with the National Confederation of Meat and Poultry. The title is quite alarming and clear: «Unfair and unfair market regulation in the egg sector». The background is a change in the regulation on the Board of Commerce’s authority from 1 March, where Nortura now receives the market regulation role in eggs. I just want to quote very briefly: ‘Private operators must always adapt to the market in order to secure a reserve. Nortura may choose to use common funded regulation to adapt its production and quality portfolio to the market.’;» In the end, they challenge the Ministry of Agriculture and Food whether a review should not be carried out in order to ensure a ‘non-competitive market regulation for eggs where both private and cooperative farmers benefit from the same system’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e673	Agriculture policy, when it comes to it, is not really difficult at all. It is about being willing to give priority to agricultural instruments. Are you willing to spend budget money so that you can have agriculture all over the country, or are you not willing to spend budget money on it? Are you willing to stand up in the fight for customs protection, or are you not willing to stand up in the fight for customs protection? The differences in the staging room are very clear. It is just to look at all the draft budgets over the eight years of the Red-Green Government, how the Progress Party and the Right have made alternative proposals every year. The alternative proposals have always been worse, there has been less budget money. A better way to show that you don't want to prioritize it doesn't exist – or worse, I would say. Last year, the Right, which is going to do this year, voted for the setting that was in place. But when it came to the budget in the autumn, they cut $1,550 million. kr. It'll be the same this year. Can Right guarantees that they will not behave the same way this year as they did last year, when they voted for something about the spring and cut $1,550 million. kr in the autumn? Can the Right guarantee that they behave differently this year than they did last year? Then Lars Peder Breck would have been about to take off, as the president said, when he would come into the quotes when it was about to customs. This shows how the Right actually prioritises agricultural policy. I'm going to take a small selection of quotations from central right-, progressive party and left-wing politicians. First Jan Tore Sanner: ‘Intelligible strong reactions from Europe to the new Norwegian customs walls. They'll be gone with a new government. When right-leader Erna Solberg was in Britain, she said: ‘It is very special that the country that is the best in the world is what is now changing to higher customs duties, and is shutting goods from other countries out more. It is taken as a very negative signal.» So a quote from Guri Melby in the left of the newspaper on October 8th: «Systemic egoism». And to Morten Høglund, who saith unto the Gentiles, ‘We want the greatest possible degree of free trade, including with agricultural products. Our goal is free trade with these goods. Let's do it. We have no understanding of a strong import protection that Norway now has and wants more liberalisation.' I can take a few more right-hand quotes just to make it clear whether you're prioritizing agriculture or not. Svein Flätten says this in Bondebladet: ‘Many families will notice that food is becoming more expensive.’ Furthermore, in the Evening Post on November 2, 2012 he says: ‘In order to be prepared for this, customs protection should be built down slowly.’ In an article in the Class Fight, St. Nicholas Astrup's representative says: ‘The EU does not need us to understand that Norwegian ostetoll is a bad idea.’ In the same article, Astrup says that what has been the main demand of agriculture, and what the government and I carried out, was a ‘gigantic loss’. It is this ‘gigantic loss’ that the government carried out last autumn, which now provides us with an agricultural settlement, that it is closing the income gap and that Norwegian milk producers earn better this year than last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e725	In the public debate, we can still hear someone who believes that the political parties have become too equal. In this case, agricultural policy must be the exception confirming the rule. There are large dividing lines between the red-green agricultural policy and the one that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left led by the last they put in power. A comparison of budget support shows that under the Bondevik II government it was reduced by 630 million. kr, while under the red-green government it has increased by nearly 3000 million. kr. There are even greater lines between the red-green agricultural policy and the one that the Right Party and the Advance Party will lead, possibly together with the Left Party and/or the Christian People's Party, if they come to power after the harvest's elections. Because while the red-greens will ensure the three supports of Norwegian agricultural policy, the Right and the Advance Party will build up customs protection, add agricultural farming to the harvest together with the ordinary budgetary process, and take away agricultural own interoperability from important responsibilities as market regulation. In its alternative budget for 2013, the Right cut 1 517 million. kr in budget support for agriculture. The progress party cut 5 145 million. kr. In the middle of these political divisions, we find the Christian People's Party, which, despite saying they want to maintain strong import protection, maintain the negotiating institute, strengthen soil protection and increase the income of Norwegian farmers, chooses to act as the guarantor of a government change. Such a shift would mean a shift from these policy objectives to what agriculture itself refers to as a downsizing of the industry. Working on this year's government budget, working on the various political programmes of the parties, and now in the context of the deleveraging of the agricultural settlement, we see that the parties linked to a possible Right-wing Party government are bursting to every edge of their agricultural policy. We see that efforts are being made to create confusion, both among businessmen who do not know what kind of agricultural policy a possible vote for, for example. The Christian People's Party will mean, and among the parties' own people out there, who are struggling to answer what any government power will mean in these important questions. The centre party is concerned that we should have a viable agriculture throughout the country. The progress and the right is clear on the opposite. It should be a catalyst for those who, by supporting the Left or Christian People's Party, also want the Right and the Advance Party's agricultural policy to be welcomed into the government premises. The Progress Party clearly states that agricultural policy should no longer be part of rural policy. It will be hard for agriculture in District Norway, which is among the industries most dependent on the instruments available in the red-green agricultural policy. The clear political lines can thus turn out to be a distinction between a be or not too many Norwegian farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e742	A lot of people talk about increasing food safety emphasis without really defining it. Increased food safety in Norway requires increased plant production on Norwegian land. It's the plant production that's the base. Food security is not increased when imported wheat and soya from abroad and processed through animals in Norway. There is a deterioration in food safety. The representative Sweare Myrli referred to the consumer, and that's a topic that concerns me very much. It is important that consumers are guaranteed safe, high-quality Norwegian food, not least as regards the unknown content of plant protection, insecticides and fungicides, hormones and genetically modified plants, of which we know there is a lot else. Fortunately, awareness of the content of food is increasing – thank you and price. It is very important to stimulate a good diet through better labelling of the content, among other things. in the case of salt and palm oil. Therefore, much better tools must be given to the Food Safety Authority to control the content of food. We are talking about agricultural policy and agricultural policy. Once again, a definition of the terms is needed. Agriculture is the use of land. It's the use-of-earth policy we're talking about, and the earth is in the districts. Therefore, a close link between use of land and activity in districts is reported. The agricultural agreement currently acts as a rationalisation agreement for the further processing of imported feed. It makes the use of land in Norway today less profitable, while the use of imported feed is made profitable. At the same time, the level of debt is soon to be twice the level of turnover in industry. This is neither economically, ecologically nor socially sound nor sustainable. Primary industries and districts are being diverted if they continue as they are now. If this happens, agriculture will lose the broad political support, and alternative food supplies from abroad will appear cheaper for Norwegian consumers and right-hand decision-makers. I am absolutely convinced that today's development is neither economically, ecologically nor socially sustainable. When the level of debt in an industry is about to double its level of turnover and its profitability is so weak, this should at least be clear to representatives from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e756	In the treatment of the agricultural and food notification, the size has decided that food production in Norway will increase by 20 pst. over the next 20 years. If we are to achieve that goal, we must ensure that the person doing the job - the farmer - has an income that makes it attractive to produce food. The agricultural settlement of the year facilitates an increase in income of NOK 31000 per annual work on average. It is incredibly important that in this year's settlement we are able to close a little bit of the gap that has arisen between farmers and other groups. Why is there such a gap? Before the red-green government took over in 2005, 25 years went by without real wage growth in agriculture. In the first seven years of red-green government, the settlement has given rise to an income development in agriculture that, in dollars, has been roughly equal to other groups. In the year’s settlement, agriculture is provided with an income option of NOK 12 000 more than other groups. It is the beginning of a escalation that must continue until the revenue gap is dense. Everything indicates that there will be a shortage of food worldwide in a short time. Norway is morally obliged to maintain the degree of maritime supply. Farming is primarily about what kind of food Norwegian families will have access to in the future. There's nothing more forward-looking than producing food. It'll never be immoderate to eat saturated. The main priorities of the organisations were cattle and cereals. With the Centerpartiet in the government, we have had an impact on customs changes that have made it possible to collect a portion of the price. Fortunately, the main emphasis of budgetary resources has been spent on rural agriculture. Norway is dependent on food production throughout the country and not only in optimal areas if we are to be able to maintain the level of self-sufficiency. I am most concerned about mountain farming, arctic agriculture and western agriculture. In future settlements, it becomes important to pay extra attention to the development of small and medium-sized applications. I would encourage organisations to give even greater priority to exposed districts, with particular emphasis on milk and other grazing and roughage-based productions. Another situation we have to follow closely in the future is the investment challenges in agriculture. The two-way distribution in the Norwegian economy presents cost challenges for this industry, like forest industries and other continental industries. Investment costs in industry have increased more than in the rest of society and at a different rate than income. Increased food production requires the renewal of the operating appliance, and we need to assess whether exceptional measures are required to ensure that sufficient investment is made to achieve the 20 pst target. increase. In addition, it is essential that other framework conditions are also in place. If the grazing resource in the field is to be exploited, we are dependent on predictable and efficient tillage management. The rapprochement is a long step in the right direction, but unfortunately there is still a great deal to be done by the administration. Felling permits are granted in many areas too late and with too narrow a framework for both the area and the time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e773	A negotiated agreement with the farmers does not give farmers any guarantee of income. Hardly anyone depends as much on the weather in Norway as the farmer. In recent years, we've had great challenges in terms of the weather, with rainy summers, floods and harsh winters, and getting a non-grained one in the earth in time, it can be too late in our country. The growing season is short and the cold comes quickly, and if the farmer does not get a crop, there will be no income either. I think the representative Lillian Hansen had a very good description of the situation here in Norway compared to New Zealand. Our particular production conditions are one of the reasons why our agricultural policy is different from other countries, and also the fact that we are a high-cost country. We have a political desire to produce as much food as we can on the 2.8 percent of the land on which we produce. Then it is our political duty to contribute to the existence of anything profitable in producing milk and meat throughout the country. Then an agreement between the farmers and the state is absolutely necessary, and it is absolutely necessary that we maintain a high level of customs protection for our basic products – which will have a higher cost than large-scale production in countries with longer growing seasons and lower cost levels and wage levels. I try to be understanding, but I am not able to understand with my best will that the agricultural policy that the Progress Party sees for itself can be of benefit to neither farmers, animals nor the country as a whole. If I'm going to try to understand, their belief in what they call "free competition" and "freedom for the farmer" must be bottom of one's belief in one's own doing – in any case. Even the best footballer can't do without a team. Yes, even the best skier, Petter Northug, manages alone. This applies not least to farmers who do not know that they are getting quiet in the elite class or get the best training conditions. In short, therefore, I believe that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is well described with the word «drift in Norway – live the Toten». I believe that this year's agricultural settlement was a good one, and I am also of those who believe that this is a good start. Combined with customs protection, this at least provides opportunities for farmers to produce in the future. They're wanted. I am asking all farmers in Norway to visit the Storting website, go further into the archive collection from today and listen carefully to what has been said. In particular, I ask the farmers to listen to the contributions of the Progress Party, but I also believe that they should listen carefully to what the Left has said here today, that agricultural policy should be included as an ordinary part of the state budget, because it is the most democratic thing, as the representative Tenden said. The same thing says the right. With a blue-blue government, the negotiating institute is a mere saga, and my prediction is that agriculture throughout the country will be a mere fairy tale.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e790	The panic is obviously spreading in the government offices. Like the voters, the Red-Green government comrades are about to take over the fact that it is heading towards a non-socialist election victory for the autumn and thus a government shift. This strongly reflects the rhetoric of the representative Irene Lange Nordahl and Ingrid Heggø. The shooting is directed at the Christian People's Party, precisely because it is particularly dangerous for the red-greens that, with our high credibility as an agricultural party, we can have a key role in the Stortinget after the election. Like the Central Party and the Government, we maintain support for the three main pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy: annual separate agricultural settlements, active import protection and the cooperative model of market regulation. We insist that the key prerequisites for continuing to have a viable agriculture and a cultural landscape in active use are income from which to live and good welfare schemes also apply to Norwegian farmers. This means that the gap in income between economic operators in agriculture and other groups in society needs to be reduced. The government, and in particular the Center Party, fears the Christian People's Party because, with our credibility in agricultural policy, we will also be a reliable partner for Norwegian farmers and agricultural organisations – on the right side of the table after a non-socialist election victory. Voters with an interest in agriculture – in a situation where all arrows point towards a government change – will see the value of the Christian People's Party with the greatest possible strength to promote its agricultural policy. It is up to the voters whether they will give us the strength needed to ensure the continuation of the main lines of Norwegian agricultural policy even during the next major period. That's what we think the selection groups in question realize, and it's obvious that Irene Lange Nordahl and the Center Party also realize the same thing – with the toe tips on the edge of the barrier stop. Representative Arne L. The mound asked for a closer extension of the calculations of the Christian People's Party, and he would get that. On pages 29 and 30 of the Proposition, we find figures from the Agricultural Budget Item showing the trend of income during the current agricultural settlement period. They show that agriculture as a whole has only had 1.3 pst. growth in revenue. This represents approx. NOK 3 800 per year. And in the case of reference use, milk and cattle, 22 years old, development has almost been disastrous, with a decrease of 3.8 pst. income, corresponding to NOK 12400 less this year than they had last year. Then we take the freedom to set up the following calculation: Milk and cattle, 22 years old cows, get 30,300 kroner with the year's settlement. Then we subtract the $12,400 to cover the gap in the current settlement period. We're left with NOK 17 900 for these reference users, which have to be divided into the two years, i.e. the current settlement period and the next settlement period. Then I hope that it should be prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e805	I would like to start by saying that if our proposals fall, we will support Right-wing proposal No. 22 and 23 subsidiary. There has been a good debate with some concessions. In a line, I asked the National Council of Battle Violence Vedum questions about abandoned use, because there has never been as much use as it has been made since 2005, under the red-green government. Then the Battle Force Vedum found that this is going to continue at the same pace, because he says it's quite natural, that you have to streamline, etc. So what he confirmed then was that with the red-green government this will be in free fall, because you don't do any other grip that you have to do. Then we also had an explanation from the representative Hansen of the Workers' Party, who also made a number of concessions. She confessed that there was a problem with supplying enough butter and enough meat – we have had that problem all the way through the four-year period she has been here. She could confirm it, and I think it's good that you can go to the pulpit here and admit it. So she also says something that's typical good work policy. For the Workers' Party has never cared about Norwegian jobs, and that could be confirmed by Hansen, for she says that the border trade – as among others. The representative Treldal has been talking about – just customs. Then she says, "We feed Sweden with jobs." Yeah, it's right to say that. So we have between 12 and 14 billion. kr in border trade, which actually represents 12 000 to 14 000 jobs. What the representative says is that she is happy with it – she wants to give the jobs to Sweden, and that is not a good district policy, if that is what you are doing. Then you say something about the fact that you haven't seen any penalty customs on the fish. No, but it's coming. It is announced that negotiations on white fish will not take place until next year, and then the representations we get will come here. Then, unfortunately, the white fish will be affected, and it may particularly affect the region in which this representative lives. There has also been a lot of talk about regulation and deregulation. We want to deregulate, we want the farmer to be free and be allowed to start making some money himself. We want to take away the production ceilings. Today it's only 6 pst. by Norwegian farmers living on their income. So in 2010, it was 14 pst. So now it's 6 pst. And if the government were to keep going, I'm afraid we're down to 1 pst. in the course of two years. But I can calm down that it's going to be government change, so the farmers have a good future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e818	First, to the representative of Torgair Tåldal. The post he had, where he tried to answer my post, falls so on his own unreasonableness that it does not deserve any more mention from my side. That's the one. To the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen from the Right, who claims that we have tricked with the way we communicate our policy, I would say so in that way that no one has really tricked more with politics – or rather, with rhetoric – than the Right has done in recent years. What I want to say is that it's the rhetoric that's changed, not the politics. To the Agriculture Policy of the Right and Advance Party: Small and medium-sized producers will disappear. District agriculture will bleed. The vast majority of agriculture in North Norway, the West and the mountain and valley regions will have no future. In the long term, Norway will be more like Sweden, characterised by re-growth and depopulation, as one sees in North and Middle Sweden. In addition to the farmers themselves, the big losers will be tourists and other businesses that depend on agriculture as customers in the community. I have registered many listings with the representative Torgeir Tjäldal. It is quite incomprehensible that one ends in the way that Torgeir Tåldal did in his last post. He has indicated that the agricultural policy of the Advance Party can be expected from agriculture throughout the country, while in the next interview he says that it is necessary to expect liberalisation and centralisation of Norwegian agricultural policy. The main effects of the agricultural policy of the right-wing parties will be that most farmers will have to cut down on their farms, but that some will, however, bet. But it won't be in the areas I mentioned instead. There will be considerable investment and maximum economies of scale will be exploited. That is, we are going to have agriculture in areas like Jären and around Oslofjorden and Trondheimsfjorden. There will be the consequences of the agricultural policy of the right-wing party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e831	Is a successful agricultural policy only a function of the size of agricultural transfers through agricultural production? The Minister of Agriculture claims this in his last post. I find it quite eye-catching. Once again, I need to refer to the letter of 18 June to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food by political direction from four egg producer teams and KLF. They write quite clearly: «The legislation of the day for the market regulation of eggs is not to live with producers and enterprises which are not part of agricultural cooperatives.» It's pretty strong claims. Then I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture two very clear questions, and if I have a legitimate or unjustified hope that it will be answered, we will see. But this is the case: does the Minister of Agriculture not see that there is a positive impact on healthy competition in the food market – is it positive that we have alternative suppliers in the food market? Question 2: Does the Minister of Agriculture not see any challenges in the fact that strong individual actors in agriculture are also set to play the role of market regulation? There were two simple questions that I hope the minister wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e849	I have noticed that the Right has not confirmed that they are going to do the same this year as they did last year: first vote for the setup here in the hall and then go and cut 1,500 million. kr in the budget for the autumn. It was the one right used last year, and they can't guarantee that they won't do the same this year. To the representative of the Christian People's Party: I want to ask for a little humility in the approach to agricultural policy, because if you look at what the Christian People's Party had in the Bondevik II government, we see that they had a very agricultural-friendly prime minister in Kjell Magne Bondevik. There's no doubt about it. He had to go directly into several of the settlements to make an agreement, and what was the result of that? Agricultural budget appropriations went down by 630 million. kr during the four-year period. Even when the Christian People's Party had greater power, even when Kjell Magne Bondevik, as Prime Minister, went directly into and overrun agricultural policy, it became a cut, not an increase. There was a budget cut of 630 million. kr. Under the Stoltenberg II government, we've had an increase of almost 3 billion. kr, and only in the year 500 mill. kr. In communication with voters and farmers, you have to be open and honest about what were the historical results when the Christian People's Party ruled and had the Prime Minister, and how the conditions of strength are now. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the Christian People's Party, which has, as a matter of principle, alcohol policy, aid policy and a more liberal immigration policy, and claims that they want a more offensive commitment to agricultural policy, believes that the answer is to give the Progress Party and the Right more power – put Erna Solberg in as Prime Minister, let Siv Jensen become Minister of Finance, because then there will be a commitment to agriculture, then it will be a willingness to engage in customs struggles with the EU, then it will be a willingness to spend more money on rural agriculture. Of course it won't. The Reiten knows very well that will not happen. But I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are the parties that most agree on many things. That is why it is so incomprehensible, when you have some of the same points of view, that you point to the Progress Party and the Right, because the biggest counter-poles of traditional central policy are the Progress Party and the Right. The representative of the Horseman knows that very well, and he must be open and honest about it, because he knows that the Christian People's Party is going to have less power in a new government, and that the Progress Party is going to have more power. But the aim is not to do that, because there are a lot of people in Norway who want offensive agricultural policies, who want offensive rural policies, and we are going to mobilise them to win the elections. And the Christian People's Party should have understood that they don't get their solutions with the Advance Party and the Right, they get it together with the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e864	The President will only recall what this debate is about – I think it is quite clear from the agenda that there is a position by the Trade Committee on Agriculture for 2013 and changes in the 2013 state budget – and that we stick to what is the topic of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e867	I must say that I have been surprised by the posts of the representative Reiten today. It is on the basis that he goes to a very attack on the government party of agricultural policy. At the same time, however, he does not say one critical word about agricultural policy to the Progress Party. Then one can wonder if it is such that the representative is more in agreement with the Progress Party's agricultural policy than with the government's agricultural policy, since it is the government he attacks and not the Progress Party. I actually don't think it's like that. I think it is such that the Reiten and the Christian People's Party want agricultural policy to the government and not their Progress Party. I think it's better that the Horseman and the Christian People's Party begin to get a bad conscience because they realize that they're fighting for a change of government that gives the Advance Party power. Then they know they're going to have a worse agricultural policy than what we have today. This is why they are attacking the government party to withdraw their attention from their position, which may weaken Norwegian agricultural policy. So there's a bill for income development. There I think the Horseman might have come to a better result if he took a height because this is a given mid-year, and some of the revenue comes first year and the rest comes second year. Then I want to end by giving some honor to the representative Lundtigen. He has a very good point that we have to be better at talking about what we can call net self-storage – production minus imported feed, instead of just looking at how much of the food we produce, no matter how much imports we use to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e876	All first to what is within the agricultural agreement and the Christian People's Party's attempt to play with numbers. What is important in this context is that the parties confirm the figures through the agreement and that the organisations state that there is a very good settlement on the ground. It's in the presentation of the proposition that we're dealing with right now. So a little bit for the debate. The cooperatives and market regulation are so very disagreeable to the right. They have gone from a little disagreement to very disagreement, and now to a general disagreement that cooperatives should have the market regulation. I think it's a fine system that works. There is an existing regime of risks and responsibilities that is balanced with actors other than the State. If there's something that the Right should really be satisfied with, it's just that there's someone other than the State who takes risk and responsibility for market regulation, which is basically a demanding exercise as we have it. We are in favour of market regulation in the cooperatives. I am pleased to note – because there is a clear difference – that the Right has become in principle against it. Then they say they're for import protection. No, they're not really that. They are not for an import protection which works as intended. For there is something that the right nine-hours have tried to counter, it is the adjustment of customs duties on some products that was introduced to protect Norwegian food production. Yes, it is possible to set the price as a result. However, the other important factor in having a good and well-functioning import protection is the protection of the relationship with the food industry in Norway. A prerequisite for a strong food industry in Norway is to ensure volume production. We have. We have a food industry that is far more innovative than the Norwegian fishing industry, which is not subject to the same regulation as the agricultural sector. So this works in my opinion in a very good way. Then to the Progress Party. They are not just for a market, but they are for a total deregulation of Norwegian food production and the agricultural system. They are totally opposed to having some regulations in that field. The end of a visa with such an idea is that one does not have food production again in Norway. We'll be outrun by stronger agricultural countries than we can be ourselves. So the idea of the Progress Party is strange, and it's very clear: it's the market that's going to be raw. So finally to the Christian People's Party, who are trying to achieve high credibility in agricultural policy. That's good. I very much agree with the Christian People's Party. But in a situation where they honor a government where perhaps the next Minister of Agriculture is Torgeir Táldal, the credibility disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e889	I come from Hedmark, the strongest agricultural and forestry community we have. That means that the rest of the country is very dependent on us and needs the resources we have to produce food in Norway. We need to produce more because food is the most important product in the world. More food is going to be needed, and we in Norway are going to have to take responsibility for producing more food. If we don't have to trade that food on the world market and join in pushing the prices for those who don't have the same good advice as us. The area and the volume of production must be increased in all countries if we are to be able to feed the world. Some other distribution mechanisms must also exist. If this is to be possible, we must have the three pillars that are important for agriculture, namely budget support, cooperation and import protection. Without the three pillars it will not be possible to operate agriculture in Norway. I have looked at the figures from the budget and what the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing to support agriculture. For Hedmark alone, the cut of the Progress Party will mean a capital loss of more than 370 million. kr in the year – for the right a little less. There is no doubt that this will hit agriculture hard in Hedmark. What's special in Hedmark is that we have a strong food industry with several thousand jobs that is based just on that we produce food in Hedmark. That's what we produce there -- food and wood raw materials. It is clear that if agricultural production were to receive such a click as is prescribed by the Party of Advancement and the Right, it is said that the food industry will be affected to a large extent. I guess no one thinks you're going to produce it in Hedmark if you don't produce food there. It's clear that then that industry will be completely different from where the food is produced. So it's a real hit to Hedmark from the Advancement Party and the Right. That's why it's so wonderful to listen to the Christian People's Party to rely on these parties that don't believe in any of what the Christian People's Party says is the core value of its policy. In all the areas covered by the Minister of Agriculture – and I can add to aid and poverty policies and climate policy – the Progress Party and the Right is located miles from the Christian People's Party. They should find other partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e901	The president would remind us that the fishing industry is also producing food. The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and therefore has a one-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e906	I want to add that the fishing industry produces amazingly good food. In contrast to the Council of State, I will answer the questions that are being asked. The Council of State asked the Right a concrete question as to whether we would maintain the cuts in the next budgetary process. How big the cuts are, I'm not going to shoot, as we're talking about the budget for 2014. But with regard to the problem that the Council of State is trying to address, where he claims that we cannot have cut into the next budget because the agricultural agreement has been negotiated now, and that we must then go against agreements already concluded, that is part of our reason for coordinating the agricultural agreement in time with the State budget. It'll make it much more tidy, and we'll pick off a bad rhetorical point from the Center Party that we're going to rage and destroy already concluded agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e913	The representative Steinar Reiten has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e916	Short to State Council Battle violence Vedum: I would like to remind you that today's government uses a smaller percentage of the state budget for agriculture than the Bondevik II government did. I would also like to remind you that the last two Stoltenberg governments have had to break agriculture. That didn't happen while Bondevik was prime minister. So I would remind both the Council of State and the voters that it is the majority of the population and not the government that decides which agricultural policy is to be pursued. Therefore, the strength and size of the Christian People's Party will become very important after the election. If we get a situation where the Right Party and the Advance Party get a clean majority in the Grand Council, I will agree with the Council that much is at stake. With a Christian People's Party that is strong enough to tilt the big crowd, the situation will be completely different. A strengthened Christian People's Party will have agricultural policy as a priority area, whether we are going to negotiate a government platform or pursue our policies in the UK outside government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e925	The representative, Mr Dahl, has spoken twice in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e928	I asked two, in my opinion, relatively clear questions to the Minister of Agriculture, and I did, in fact, have a legitimate hope – an unjustified hope, it turned out – that we would get answers to those questions. I allow myself to repeat the questions: Does the Minister not see that there is a positive effect on healthy competition in the food market? Two questions are: does the Minister for Agriculture not see any challenges in the fact that individual agricultural actors are also set to have the market-regulatory role? Here are some issues. I would have liked the Minister of Agriculture to at least discuss this from the Chair, because it must then be that most people see that there are some issues that are worth reflecting on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e933	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen came into the milk price equalization system. Let me say that in my view, there is some of the gold stocks in the instrument system we have in Norwegian agricultural policy. The price equalisation mechanism shall help to ensure that all milk producers receive the same price for the product they supply, irrespective of the geographical location and use of the milk. It is also an important mechanism to ensure that the price of milk can be realised – that it is possible to get into the market as much as possible. As I said, it is an important mechanism to ensure a level playing field. That's what the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen was concerned about. As I understand it, the special arrangements set out in the price equalisation scheme mean that, in the years 2004-2011, Synnovene Find and Q-Meierien increased their market shares by more than 8 pst. compared to earlier. This shows that competition works and that it works. The increase in grants to those dairies from 60 million to 70 million. DKK to 115 million – 120 million. kr in the years 2007 to 2011, is also an example of using the funds to ensure the necessary competition. There are costs incurred in this system and they are paid by both farmers and consumers. Then I want to go back to the customs rates. We have many quotations that the Council of State mentioned, on how the Right is dealing with this. The representative Bakke-Jensen said that the right has nothing against customs protection, on the contrary. It was the process and the relationship with the trading partners that was the starting point. Yes, it was the relationship with the trading partners. Rather, it is decided to stand by the hand rather than challenge the EU within the existing trading systems we have, within the framework of the WTO Agreement. It's surprising. Let me put it this way: the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has been very clear about the reversal of customs changes. The representative Fleet has also been very clear in this room that the customs increases should be reversed. I have to ask, is it so that the Right will reverse the customs changes? Is it such that the right would destroy the possibilities of increased incomes for the agricultural industry? Is it the case that the Right would take care of the EU's interests over the interests of Norwegian business with its agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e944	It has basically been a traditional debate here today, where we in the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have stressed the importance of the farmer for Norway to maintain food production and housing throughout the country, and a cultural landscape as we know it today. Right tries to misplace that they're opposite most of what we're red-green for. The progress party keeps familiar style – the market should be raw, and release the farmer. The Christian People's Party has lost all its trust here today, when they do not realize that the impact of agricultural policy, and assistance for that part, will be significantly more difficult if Torgeir Tældal would become Minister of Agriculture and Siv Jensen Minister of Finance. I would also like to remind the representative, Mr. Reiten, that what is common is that if the organisations do not accept the offer and negotiate, it is the opening offer to the government that is agreed on. Finally, I would like to say that it would not have been wrong for the President to comment on the remarks made by the Minister of Food and Agriculture in the last article, because these were absolutely within the current theme, which is agriculturally settled. I'd like the President to sign up on the list of speakers if he'd like to comment on the articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e953	The President will only periodically remember what is the topic of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e956	I also think it was a good reminder to discuss the agricultural settlement, rather than the people with which to scare the population. Let me first say a word to the committee leader Aasland, who was talking about the market regulation system. He said that there is a fine system that no one else can handle but the cooperative. I don't think that's right, but it's the cooperative that's done it. The right has nothing to do with it. What we have said is that we believe that the one who is also a market player should not be the only market regulator. There is no doubt that in a future arrangement, for which we will first have an investigation, the cooperative will be part of those participating in the market regulation scheme. Everybody really understands that. So, to Terje Aasland's strong criticism that we're going to throw out the cooperative, it falls on its own unfairness. We've never said that. We've been talking about independence. We've been talking about being more neutral when it comes to entering the market. We have seen examples of the fact that the definition of either over-coverage or under-coverage of some products is given by the dominant market player. That's not going to be right. So to this with import protection. The chairperson of the Committee says that this is in order to protect the food industry. I want to warn against pushing the food industry in front of me. The food industry, in the case of increased import protection, receives higher raw material costs. That's the point, too. I have nothing against farmers making more money, it has right many good measures for. However, the food industry in Norway is dependent on the agricultural industry — and vice versa. In the case of imported products, which cannot be increased – finished processed products, which we import – they come into direct competition with one produced in Norway from Norwegian raw materials. There is no doubt that the Norwegian products, made from Norwegian raw materials, will lose in that competition. It's a fact. These are not just arguments that the food industry provides to the Right. It's a fact that you're far into the Bond Team, maybe even in the Center Party, know right. In addition, the protection of imports, for which the Right is, must not become a sleeping cushion in order not to exploit the capacity, the possibility, which lies in Norwegian agriculture to produce more efficiently, more efficiently and not least at prices which allow better payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e967	The President will recall the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, and in particular § 53.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e971	The President should also be reminded that a person in this Chamber is discussing politics, and that is when you think completely, and not just part. I'm going to end today's debate, probably – from my side – by making some comments. In that year – 366 days now – I have been Minister of Agriculture, I have traveled all over the country. The most striking thing about this industry is the extent to which it has, from Finnmark to Agder in the south. It has a very large size: we have agricultural enterprises in 420 municipalities. We have companies like Tine, which have companies spread all over the country, which have 5,500 employees, and which create major regional ring-effects. We have Natura, Synnove Finden and other large corporations that are absolutely crucial for their local and community environment. We started today's debate on food, and it's the food that's the primary thing. That's why we have an agriculture, that's why we have an agriculture. But then the additional effect of Norwegian agricultural policy is that it creates so much value creation around our country, and I think some representatives take it a little too easy. I have received several questions from the representative Torgeir Dahl today. I also asked the representative Dahl a question back, about the fact that he will now vote in favour, for example. the immediate elimination of export subsidies on milk, as stated in the proposal. Then he has to call employees at the Tine factory in Elnesvågen and say: I want your job to be laid down. That's the consequence of that. He has to – I've been there, I think there are about 60 people working there – meet the 60 employees and say: I think it's right, good and wise that your job disappears. And when one has had the massive resistance to customs change that several representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have had, one must meet the individual people and say: Well, we think it is right that one should put down Norwegian agriculture in Finnmark, in Troms, and cut out the industry that is there, and the ringing effects that it brings. It's an honest and open position, and then you should be honest and open at it. With regard to market organisations: of course we want competition in Norwegian food trade. It's just out of the good stuff. So we think it makes sense that the state doesn't do everything in society, and that the cooperatives have done a good job on behalf of the community, and we don't want to state it. But of course, it's also constantly dilemmas, but that's the way it is with all the solutions. No solutions are perfect, but we believe that the best solution is what we have, where the cooperative takes responsibility for the community. Then I would like to thank the Farmers and the Small Farmers team for being able to make difficult balances together through this year's discussion on the agricultural agreement, and to make good priorities like both the Farmers' Team, the Small Farms' Team, and the State are also united. It is the Norwegian model at its best – when we go together, nutrition and state, and find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e986	The President can assure the Council of State of the Battle of Vedum that in this Chamber there is much debate about politics, and that is what is also meant by Storting's Rules of Procedure. The representative of Irene Lange Nordahl has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e991	The Christian People's Party is trying to make a point that one agrees with the red-green agricultural policy. But how in the world will the Christian People's Party continue the red-green agricultural policy by being a guarantor of a change of government with the Right and the Advance Party? These parties will pursue a policy that will frustrate agriculture – contrary to what the red-greens stand for. What this debate has shown to the full is that the Christian People's Party will fail agriculture if they contribute to the Party of Advancement and the Right instituting government agencies after the elections. It's not useful to say one thing when you make other choices that will lead to the very opposite – that's what this debate has shown to be. I am absolutely sure that agriculture and farmers throughout the country see this double game as the Christian People's Party now makes itself a spokesman for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e996	There are many red-green politicians who are concerned about the Christian People's Party. I can say we're fine, we're up, it's a nice day, and the sun shines. I believe that the concern expressed by the Red-Greens in this debate is a clear expression of the credibility of the Christian People's Party in agricultural policy. That's why you're worried. It was the government council Kåre Gjøns in the Bondevik I government that presented an agricultural message that showed the direction until 2012, before a new agricultural message arrived, which this house adopted. To use just one example, I think the Christian People's Party has great credibility with regard to the peasant organizations: I am myself appointed to the peasant friend, both by the Farmers' Association in Sogn and Fjordane and the Farmers' Association in Eastfold – the county of grass, the county of cereals and poultry. It does show that the policy of the Christian People's Party is, and stands for, and that we will fight for, and work for, is credible. We have lost credibility, it has been said. I think the voters will be allowed to decide on the election day. The Christian People's Party increased the aid budget of the governments of Bondevik I and Bondevik II every year. The Christian People's Party with Government powers made agreements with the peasant organizations every year. We didn't get a break. We had no demonstration with 2 500 farmers outside of the Storting – as the red-green government had last year – while they were really going to be on earth and doing what was really important, growing food, and not demonstrating against a majority government. The Christian People's Party in the government position spent more of the total budget cake on agriculture than has been done under the red-green government. I think this shows that in the Christian People's Party we have used our position in government to strengthen agriculture. We have used our position in opposition to build credibility towards the farmers, and we have helped to push a red-green government to pursue a more active agricultural policy. I think – and I know – that many farmers and many people in the food industry have noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1011	It is strange, almost a little troubling, to hear that the Minister of Agriculture and Food repeatedly in Stortinget, and especially now when he is going to sum up the debate, really has nothing else to talk about than for or against the last increase in customs protection, as if it were absolutely essential for Norwegian agriculture. After all, he himself replied to that in a letter to the Committee – that at least it is not in terms of the year's agricultural settlement and the taking of prices. I also have to tell the representative Breck – who is talking about the importance of challenging our trading partners, and that the Right will not take care of our interests outside – that the EU itself is doing its job. The EU has followed the Norwegian battle for the ostetoll and then manages it. The right is for a strong import protection. We're discussing a small part of this. I must also say that I am responding to the statement from the representative Karin Andersen from SV, who says that Hedmark gets a hit. It is possible that they will, but it is not because of the Right Agricultural Policy, in that case. The same is true of the representative, Lange Nordahl, who says that agriculture is being razed with the Right: we have been given a report on how agriculture will work if we put in the Right's premises, the Right's proposals for budgets, and the numbering of what is contained in programme formulations. NILF has put it into their models, and what comes out of it? In fact, the proportion of rural production is actually higher, production is sustained, revenue is sustained — everything measured in relation to the reference path. In fact, the use gets a little bigger, which probably means that there will also be fewer. But there is a current and a former Minister of Agriculture in this Chamber, and if any of them can say that they have prevented the decline in consumption in this country, I would like to hear it. There will be fewer use, they will be slightly larger, and that is what I miss in the summary of the Minister of Agriculture here. If there are no other measures, does there not exist anything else he can imagine talking about in terms of developing agriculture, in terms of improving profitability, in terms of increasing production, than exactly cheese and toll lines in the last budget decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1022	The representative Torgeir Tåldal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1025	The representative of Aasland was up and explained the policy of the Progress Party, that we should regulate and how wrong it should be. What he doesn't include is that deregulation is something you do in the rest of the world as well, and it works. In Europe, it actually works very well. Who had to help Norway when we didn't have enough butter, when we didn't have enough ribs, when we didn't have enough steak, when we didn't have enough lamb? Well, that's exactly the markets it was referred to from the Workers' Party -- they're going to help Norway, and they're going to give us what we're going to have. The increase in the target prices in the current budget means that a family of four will have an increase of DKK 750 – that is the same as saying that border trade will increase. This is quite in line with the Labour Party's policy, for the representative Lillian Hansen, we are going to feed Sweden with jobs. It really shows the truth of the Workers' Party, how the party is. One may be afraid that the Progress Party will get the Minister of Agriculture, but it can never be worse than it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1034	The representative Lillian Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1037	The representative Fleet apparently forgot to say one important thing, and that is that the report he referred to has been crushed and trampled on up to several times after it arrived. It's probably starting to get a little mold on, because it's a few years. I'm not surprised that the Right is trying to hide its policy. I want to remind you that the Right emphasises that the farmer is self-employed, they have underlined it. They will provide the best possible profitability for active farmers. The right refers to active farmers as farmers who are intensely active. So the right is concerned that economies of scale should be exploited in order for production to be as efficient as possible. At least that kind of policy doesn't benefit the area I and Frank Bakke-Jensen are from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1044	The representative Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1047	I said in my previous post that I was a little surprised that the Christian People's Party was consistently concerned with criticising the government's agricultural policy, but that in this debate they did not come up with one critical word about the Progress Party's agricultural policy. I didn't get an answer as to why they had chosen that line, so I want to repeat the question: why is the Christian People's Party in such an important debate at all not concerned with distanceing itself from the Progress Party's agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1053	Both the representatives Heimdal and the Fleet made me have to take the floor again. It's fascinating to listen to the Christian People's Party today, because one can only go into the numbers from the Bondevik II period and look at the cause – what happened then? Well, the best that was achieved was a percentage of the same trend, while, up to this year, we have achieved a chronically similar development during this period of government. It's a completely different settlement from what you managed under Bondevik II – every time we've had better settlement. One of the reasons why there was a settlement then was, of course, the WTO ghost that hung over Norwegian agriculture. It was known that you were totally dependent on having a small entrance to the government, so you couldn't play away too many cards in a possible WTO solution. Therefore, the League felt more or less forced to participate in an agreement, because they knew that the option was to get heavy WTO processes. The best thing was -- just looking at the numbers -- percent equal development. To take the budget figures, it was minus 135 million. SEK in 2002, minus 275 million. SEK in 2003, minus 410 million. SEK in 2004 and plus 190 million. in 2005 in budgetary appropriations – cut to almost every year, but a slight increase of one year. That's the fact. That was when the Christian People's Party had the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister himself entered and became the negotiator in the final phase and added a few kroner so it became a little less cut. It must be the Christian People's Party to be honest and just say: that's the way it was, that's the maximum we could get when we had the Prime Minister and greater strength. Now they're going to go to government with the Advance Party and the Right. So what's going to be the result of that? They are much, much weaker now than the weak results of Bondevik II. The arrangement for Lars Peder Breck last year was much better than any of the statements you made under Bondevik II, no matter what you say – it's just looking at the numbers. There was another political situation, and that's a fact, regardless of whether a shake on your head – you just have to get involved in the matter. So to the Right, which says that the only thing I'm talking about is customs. Of course, I am talking about what is important in agricultural policy, even though it may be a bit tiresome for the representative, the fleet, to talk about what is important. In politics, it's sometimes about doing some priorities and dry to stand up for them even if there's trouble. We have that priority to do, and we've done it. We have been more concerned with defending Norwegian farmers than Danish farmers. We have noticed how the Right has every single time tried to cut cheap political points on it, and tried to set Norwegian agriculture up against foreign agriculture. We are concerned that Norwegian agriculture should be profitable. When it's profitable, it's an advantage that those who produce better pay for their products. Especially the big ones on the grip we took on customs, so we have to have bigger budget appropriations so that the small ones too can be lifted. This year's agricultural settlement has enabled both large and small producers to be better paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1066	I understand that's the debate for the big words. I have noted 'double-game' from one of the debaters on the red-green side, the other was 'desperate', and the third was that you were wearing off any credibility – and that before we were over the head in any government. It is interesting that there is so much need to turn the debate away from yourself and over to others before anyone possibly has taken over. I have to say that I actually think it is a small thing to exemplify who would be sitting in the agricultural minister's chair and then draw up a scare image. You have to take parties, you should stick too well to those pretty low-end attacks. I actually needed to say that, because of that. the speeches I have heard in this debate. We'd like to discuss the way the red-greens are doing. We hear in this room every day: there has never been more money allocated to the municipalities, there has never been more money allocated to Health-Norway. Yeah, we can take it. There have never been fewer farmers in this country, there have never been so few farms in this country – if we are to follow the red-green rhetoric. I'm going to stick too well to it, because we all know very well in this room that we have structural challenges, regardless of whether there is a red-green government or another government sitting at the table. We stand up for our agricultural policy. Now I'm going to answer Holmelid: we disagree with the Progress Party in many of these questions, the voters know that. The message of my Christian People's Party is clear: if they want a change of government and an active agricultural policy, they have a very good choice in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1075	In general, the President would say that the speakers should stick strictly to the issue under discussion, as stated in Section 53 of the Storting Rules of Procedure – a general call for debaters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1078	I'm just going to clarify something: I haven't said that the cooperatives and market regulation associated with this are sacred. I have said that it has worked very well. There is no doubt that the scheme in force is a very fine risk relief for the state in terms of market regulation, and I believe that it works very well. I hear that the Right repeatedly says that they are in favour of import protection – and notice to the extent – even though there are not many Right statements in the last year that bear witness to that very fact. In fact, changes have been made to ensure the proper functioning of import protection. I must take note of the fact that they are in favour of import protection, although it seems that it will not actually work. To the Christian People's Party: the red-green parties basically fully agree with the Christian People's Party in agricultural policy. I think it is with respect to report, even for words spoken by this pulpit, that it is most relevant what government and direction society has after the major elections in the field of agricultural policy. It must be relevant to include in this room which party may be responsible for a future agricultural policy in a government that the Christian People's Party may be involved in. It should really be expected that if this were not the case, they would have determined which agricultural policy would apply in the next four years. I trust the Christian People's Party, but I don't trust the Right Party and the Advance Party. That is what is an essential point in this debate. Finally, the representative, Mr Träldal, who has repeatedly raised the issue of border trade, also in this debate. What really worries me about border trade is if it is the idea of the Progress Party – in terms of restrictions around our borders – that should apply. Then we really have reason to fear the border trade. It was stated in the VG, 19 April 2012: ‘The Jensen initially wants to remove all restrictions on the cross-border importation of alcoholic beverages and foodstuffs’. That is when it provides a good basis for significant growth in the years to come in the border trade, with that type of entry into the relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1089	I must say that there is a strange debate, in which representatives from the current government clearly state that attack is the best defence. And have a bad argument, raise a voice. And for him to look around the country a little bit, one can't exactly claim that it was so much of the agricultural industry today. During this government's reign, there is an actual record in the closure of gardening, and we read about it in the media every day – the same government that boasts of having new records in transfers to the same industry, a government that has ruled for eight years, and leave grazing to stand by when predators take their cattle, because the Ministry of the Environment is run by the Socialist Left Party that does not respect predatory reconciliation, a government that has red taped agriculture to a parody, but which is good at talking well about the farmers and the work they do and how dependent we are on them. But farmers don't live by good words and regulation abundance. My point again is: it didn't exactly shine out of this industry. And that's what the industry itself has seen. There's not exactly a hallelujah mood out there to still have a red-green government either. It also shows the polls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1096	The representative of Svein Flötten has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute, in the absence of a reference to case No. 2 The Svein Fleet is the rapporteur on the matter. The Svein Fleet must decide for itself whether it is for the general debate or for case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1099	This is 1 minute to the farm plan, in this round. First to the committee chairman, who says that market regulation is a fine risk relief for the state. I just have to remind him that market regulation is a risk relief for farmers and producers, and then it's to do to find the way this is to be set up. I would like to say to the representative Lillian Hansen, who says that our report was 'broken'. No, it was the enemy image of the Right that was crushed. No one has yet met any of the premises that have been made. You haven't liked them, no – politically – but there's something completely different. I encourage Hansen and the Workers' Party to tell me what is wrong with the report. For the time being, I have heard that the Farm does not like it. It wasn't so surprising, but I'd like to hear what's in it from the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1108	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1111	I have to say that there was an eye-catching write-down of the Minister of Agriculture by the farmers' organisations in their production when they signed an agreement with the Bondevik I and Bondevik II governments. The peasants were forced to conclude an agreement, said the Council of State from this pulpit. There was a write-down by the peasant organizations that I had hoped the chief spokesman in this area would not have done. There is a highly relevant Christian People's Party policy in this area. Voters who want a new government after the election and who want an agricultural policy that takes the whole country into effect are pursuing a policy that takes the gap between farmers and other comparable professions and that wants a strengthened soil protection – they should vote the Christian People's Party at the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1118	There have been some rounds on the pulpit. You have to evaluate the actions you do in your day, and the assessments that the League's management made back then, I have full respect for. The fact is that it did not become a percentage like for the best agreements, and the fact is that there was a WTO ghost hanging over Norwegian agriculture during the period that made it very demanding. Bondevik himself left his personal prestige in getting to a scheme where he did not cut as much as he otherwise had been the option. It's a fact. It must be the Christian People's Party to be honest, and just look at the agreements that were during the Bondevik II period, and don't pretend it was anything more than what it is. That's what you thought was right then, and it was done. Then we've done some lifting afterwards, which has been absolutely necessary. It's interesting to read the setting. The government has, among other things: I was accused that we don't want to think new. But then I can make a small accusation back. It is quite strange what is in proposal No. 3 from the Right and Advance Party – I will take one example: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings before the Storting to amend the law on the prohibition of division of land.’ We had a debate on the removal of it last week, where we dealt with Section 12 of the Soil Act and removed the prohibition of sharing. Then there's a new proposal the week after. This is an example of how disrespectful the Right Party and the Progressive Party show for agricultural policy. You come up with clear proposals that were discussed last week, where we changed the ban on sharing. I can't understand why you're doing this. But you do it because you think you can score a cheap political point at it. Otherwise, it is those who have written this setting, who have not come to understand that we were dealing with the law of the land last week. I think, unfortunately, that might be the last thing. And that's kind of weird. I have noticed that the Left Party has not taken part in the debate. They had a post, and then they went. It is among the parties that have had the greatest change in their policy from 2005 until now – from when Lars Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture to Borghild Tenden’s contribution today. Because they were on the exact same line as Svein Flechtten when we made that customs change. They called it egoism put in system and protectionism at its worst that we stood up for Norwegian agriculture, for Norwegian districts and for Norwegian industrial workplaces. Then it is not right, as the representative Svein Fletten has said, that we are not concerned with the Norwegian food industry. When we made this change, it was after strong input from NHO Food and Agriculture, from the Norwegian Federation of Food and Feed Workers – LO and from the Farm and Small Farm. It was broad here – industry, trade unions, peasants and small user teams were united. Therefore, the government responded to it, precisely in order to provide increased income opportunities, provide predictability and secure jobs, and not do as the representative of More and Romesdal who wants to put down the dairies in his own district.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1136	Then I will stick to the second case and will not answer the Minister of Agriculture's selected claims about which food businesses were behind what we talked about in the previous case. I'm going to talk a little bit about the Christian People's Party, and I'm going to talk a little bit about their proposals for soil protection, which we have to deal with. It is a rather interesting matter, especially with the background of the quite violent debate between the red-green parties and the Christian People's Party in the previous case – perhaps preferably the attacks from the red-green ones. I must say that the intention of the proposals of the Christian People's Party on soil protection is very good. They respect me, as I respect the Christian People's Party's agricultural policy in other ways. I don't doubt the motives at all. I think they're worth it. Sometimes we have different opinions. But some of the proposals seem to us to go a little far. Maybe it's too early. We believe – and I also perceive that the Christian People's Party believes, because they join it in other matters – that there is a lot of other things to look at to take care of on earth. You can run it better, get rid of the land problem, provide the necessary grants for ditching, etc. But first of all, you should look at the deregulations on the property side, which can make this 40 percent of the rental land go down, so that it becomes the owner who also runs. That means, of course, that you're going to take care of the earth in a different way. Soil protection doesn't become superfluous at all; that's not what I'm saying. But we get more out of the ground. There is a rush in this, because the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are united in two alternative proposals – originally promoted by the Right – to look at the taxation of land when selling out to reinvest in land. These are very good proposals, and the Christian People's Party is also involved in them. What is alarming in this matter with regard to the red-green relationship with the Christian People's Party is that, in the case of a proposal with such good intentions, one cannot even go in to attach the proposal protocol, but only strictly reject it all that, I say, uninteresting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1150	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1153	The debate has shown that the Left is becoming a more and more valuable party. The last thing now is that the Left wants land and skates to be acquired by limited liability companies without obligations. It's a historical break with the previous line of the Left. Agricultural land needs personal, long-term ownership with rights and obligations. It's based on biological facts. Right-wing chief speaker, Frank Bakke-Jensen, comes with a beautiful bouquet of words: not against customs protection, for cooperatives and for agricultural agreements. Quotes and facts about the opposite of the Right's central figures do not matter. This is not credible. I would recommend the party Right to say what it is, and soon call a spade for a spade: weaker profitability in the production of food – not least on a large scale, as they want – will be a social disaster for the people who live on the farm today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1162	The representative Lars Peder Breck has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1165	The debate has shown that there are very clear dividing lines between the blue-blue option and the red-green one, and in that context, I think we must all bear the challenge of our own policy. It also means that the Christian People's Party must bear to be challenged on its way when they say that they want government cooperation with the Right Party and the Advance Party. Finally, I would like to make a small comment to the representative, Treldal, who concluded his speech by saying that it can never be worse than now, I think it was the use of words. What's clear is that this year's agricultural settlement costs each consumer 125 kroner a year. In the vote, the Progress Party claims that the year's wage growth for people is largely consumed by increased target prices for food. The growth in earnings for 2014 is NOK 19 000. After 30 pst. tax will be 100 years before one year's wage growth has been eaten up. It must have been worse before!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1172	I'll be very short. Yes, we tolerate being challenged in the Christian People's Party. To the representative of Aasland, I would like to say that we have no problem discussing the political position of the party in the agricultural policy. What I pointed out, as I actually believe, is that we can do that without the need to personify – and in a very negative way – who would possibly be in a Council of State. I believe that the debate actually serves that purpose. I'm recording that the red-greens now agree very much. That's good, because we don't always get that impression. No one mentioned and no one forgotten, but let's say it like this: those who have spoken in this debate have just pointed out the great distance between some of the parties in government, and how terribly difficult it has been to rule with the greatest party – to put words to it. So we hear what's being said, that it's a touching consensus. It has not been obvious to us who have followed the debates in the past. Then I stand firm for what I said in my previous post. We go to elections on our policies, and we know that there are many who want a government change. For those who want an active agricultural policy, not least how we are going to ensure that there are many farmers in this country who are willing to make quite significant investments in order to achieve it, I repeat: they have a very good alternative in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1183	There are some support bars in Norwegian agricultural policy, and they are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV fully agree. We've been over this for a while, even though it may be challenging for the representative Hans Olav Syversen to see it. We have agreed on the form of the agricultural agreement, the protection of customs duties and the role of cooperation. So there's been a different willingness for dosage of the instruments, but we've agreed on the direction and the main berries. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, disagrees with the Right and the Advance Party in all the main carriers – customs protection, agricultural agreement and the role of the cooperative – and fully on a collision course in terms of soil protection. In all the areas that have been the pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy, today’s government parties agree on the main direction – on the supports. But in what is the alternative of the Christian People's Party, all parties other than the Christian People's Party are completely opposed to today's supports in Norwegian agricultural policy. It gives you a whole, completely different reality. What must be almost impossible for the Christian People's Party to say with credibility is that they themselves believe that they should be able to deliver better agricultural settlements now than they did under Bondevik II, if it's the Advance Party and Right they're going to rule with. My last appeal to the Christian People's Party is that they must start looking at their own policies – start taking their own policies seriously, and see where it is that they are getting through to it. It's not a good central policy to go to the Progress Party and the Right in our traditional centers. They will be passed on to us together with the Workers' Party and SV. But I understand that they have made a tactical choice. I believe that it is a fundamental error and very scary for Norwegian agriculture that they should be the door opener for the Progress Party and the Right into the agricultural offices. We shall prevent this by winning the elections in September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1198	We have repeatedly heard what the Minister of Agriculture says – his considerations and highly selective history about the history of the Christian People's Party when we have shared responsibility for Norwegian agricultural policy. It should also be said that the Christian People's Party is going to elections on the same government alternative as what we had under the Bondevik II government, but as we know, we have also said that we are of course willing to talk to all the opposition parties if we get a new majority. It's called taking responsibility, because then we have a situation where the voters have said they want a new government. Now there's a lot of evidence that many voters want a new government. I think that perhaps the Minister of Agriculture should notice, and that there are, in fact, many people in agriculture who want a new government. The Minister of Agriculture would like to reflect – since the analytical capacity is very high today – on both the Bondevik II government and the farmers' organisations' own motives for settling with the previous government. Since his analytical skills today are very creative, he should perhaps have some reflections about why many farmers actually also want a new government. Based on the Minister of Agriculture's last speech, one can get the impression that the Red-Green Government has an open invitation to an agricultural policy cooperation with the Christian People's Party. Is there an invitation from the sitting government to an agricultural policy cooperation with the Christian People's Party in the next period? The Minister of Agriculture's posts may suggest this, but all the other signals over several years from the current government are: we can do this ourselves – we want to do this job alone, we want to go to elections alone, as a separate alternative, we don't need anyone else. But now suddenly the Christian People's Party has become a very important party for the agricultural policy of the future, and then with negative signs, according to our Minister of Agriculture. I think this is where you send the signals a little as it fits, and when you've discovered that the Christian People's Party actually has such a good agricultural policy that you see it as a threat, you find it too good to correct the shooting another way – and talk about politics to other parties that are also in opposition. The strategy is quite simple to reveal, but it does not give the Center Party and the Red-Green Government greater credibility as we approach a choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1216	A government council has great advantages in such debates – it can only continue to talk. Our agricultural policy spokesmen don't have any more speaking time, so I can just take over a little bit. I think the Council of State continues to speak against its own scare image. After all, as the representative fleet said, it's just the fright of Right's policy that disappeared with the NILF report. Indeed, the credibility of the agricultural policy of the right increased sharply with that report. The Christian People's Party has chosen an excellent partner if you want to develop Norwegian agriculture against the real issues that you have, which Syversen was faced with, which nobody really takes seriously, and which at least the government parties have shown you are not taking seriously. Right will have import protection – but there is no doubt that import protection adjustments can be made which are far from dramatic for Norwegian agriculture and agriculture and which may simply lead to more rational adaptation. The right wants agricultural negotiations, but we want to bring them together with the presentation of the budget. There's no drama in it. So here's the Christian People's Party on very safe ground. You don't want any dramatic change. As I have said many times from this pulpit, Norwegian agriculture is largely shaped by politics, and it is policy that must also bring the industry back to a healthier future. It is also wonderful to sit and listen to a debate about the agricultural negotiations where representatives describe it as a disaster with the Right Policy. If we go in and look at what the Right proposal is about, we have tax proposals that will give back at least half of our cuts in the agricultural negotiations. We take seriously that it is an industry that consists of self-employed people, and we believe that if they get a greater degree of freedom to adapt to themselves, and get more of their own money, it will essentially become a much more solid and forward-looking industry. This was probably also demonstrated by the experience of agriculture under the Bondevik II Government. Then there were a lot of statistics that, if you go back and look at the statistics, show that optimism was a little back in agriculture during that period. What has happened under the red-green government is that a lot of the production and the statistics show that you're going in the wrong direction. I think you should relate to the results of your own policy, and then the red-green government doesn't have much to boast about. Again, the Christian People's Party has an excellent partner in the Right. We're going to develop a healthy agriculture that gets back an optimism for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1233	There are many statistics that have been claimed to have been correctly referred during the debate. It's just recommending people to go into the statistics and look at, among other things. the development of production under the Stoltenberg government – the red-green government – and under the Bondevik II. Then one sees that the claims that have been made are not correct — even in the case of withdrawals of use — that it has been the highest in time to date. It's just going to look at the statistics, you can see that neither is that statement right. So to the representative, Mr. Gundersen, who then tells us that they are going to move the agricultural negotiations from spring to the ordinary budgetary procedure in Stortinget, and that there is no drama in it. But why do you want to do that? It is, of course, to weaken the power of the Farmer Team and the Small User Team in that situation. It should therefore be linked to the other budgetary processes, so that it does not become a process of its own — a process that has worked well for Norwegian agriculture from the 1950s to the present. It is then said, dependable, that now we are just going to add it to the ordinary budgetary process at Stortinget – it's going to be pretty much the same. It is a way of weakening the right of the Lander and the Small User Team to negotiate, and their ability to participate in policy-making with the State. One of the successes of the Norwegian model is that we have designed the policy together. We believe that the many tens of thousands of people working in the industry are looking at us as well as what are the industry's challenges. That's why we're doing it together. That's why we do it in our own process in the spring, discussing how to use budgetary resources, how to give priority to price instruments, and where we have a close review. Adding it to the ordinary budgetary procedure will weaken the role of agriculture – the power of agriculture will be weaker, and the power of the state will become stronger. We in the red-green government do not want the power of the state to become stronger. I'm afraid it wants the right, and I think it's sad. As far as the Christian People's Party is concerned, I understand that they are being very, very provoked that we are just talking about the budget appropriations from Bondevik II. But they must not be provoked by the fact that we are raising the budget appropriations that were under Bondevik II – that is just the fact that that was the way it was. It was cut in budget for almost every year under Bondevik II. That was the priority given in the political majority at that time. Thanks to the Christian People's Party and that effort not least Kjell Magne Bondevik did, it did not become as big a cut as it had been without a Christian People's Party. That's the fact. But after the election – if the Christian People's Party against Presumption goes into government with the Right and the Advance Party – it will not sit a Kjell Magne Bondevik in the Prime Minister's office and enter the final round of negotiations. The Christian People's Party will not have the same strength to stop the fundamental cuts and the enormous changes the Progress Party and the Right wants in agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party must be open and honest and not pretend it's going to be a bet – new customs procedures, large budget increases, which will give new optimism – if you let the Advance Party and the Right into the government offices, because that's the opposite. But together with the Workers' Party and SV, we're going to win the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1244	Another small comment on this with the statistics. It's a fact that the degree of self-sufficiency, as many like to talk about, went up under the Bondevik II government, it's gone down under the red-green government. Grain production has fallen dramatically under the red-green government. I'm going to assume that maybe some of the things you want to do in this year's agricultural negotiations are grain production, because there you really are in deficit. But at least you have to deal with what is the reality and the results of your own policy. For the withdrawals, it's clear that when two thirds are gone, they'll necessarily go down, but calculated as a percentage of use, I think the closures have happened at least as quickly now, under the red-green government, as it has been since the 1950s. There I very much agree with the representative Syversen. It's a development that can't be done, but it's a matter of making it easier for those who want a good future in the industry to get it. There I dare say that the Right has an excellent policy. As I said, it is very reasonable for the Christian People's Party to join us in developing a forward-looking agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1254	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1268	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1277	Now we have just debated an industry where – I would say – large parts of the industry are growing in the ground, and now we are going to a case where we are going to go even deeper down: to an industry that has been and is incredibly important for the creation of value in Norway. The last time the Storting opened a new area for oil and gas activities was in 1994. For Norway, as an oil and gas nation, today is therefore important. We know how much this can mean for jobs and growth opportunities when opening up oil and gas activities on the base. September 15, 2010 was a truly historic day. Norway and Russia then agreed on demarcation and cooperation in the Barents Sea. Negotiations on the agreement took over 40 years. The agreement reached resolved the main open questions between Norway and Russia in the post-war period. It is this agreement that now gives us the opportunity to open this area. I am very pleased that there is a large majority in the committee to move on with this matter. We continue the tradition with broad political agreement in the field of petroleum policy. Despite the fact that Norwegian-sockets companies have made some major findings in recent years, Norwegian-socket production will decrease from 2020. In the period up to 2020, investments on Norwegian soil will be increasingly linked to future developments, such as Sverdrup and Castberg. Output from existing fields and fields that are in the late planning phase today will be reduced beyond the 2020s. Resources from fields we have not yet discovered will play an increasingly important role and will eventually become dominant on Norwegian soil. It takes a long time from opening an area to putting it into production. One example is the Snow White field. The field was put into production in 2007, while the Tromsøflaket, where the field is located, was opened in 1979. The field was detected in 1981. It is therefore important that we do not discuss the opening of this area based on the level of investment today on a Norwegian base. Today, there is a high level of investment, so high that an important discussion is the twofold division of the Norwegian economy. This picture will change over time, and the situation at the time when the Storing will decide on any field in the Barents Sea south-east will look completely different from today. For all oil and gas activities there is an environmental risk. The impact studies show that greater acute oil emissions can have serious environmental consequences. On the basis of experience gained from petroleum activities in other areas of Norwegian capelin, the likelihood of such a release is assessed as low. It is important to continue efforts to strengthen oil protection. I am pleased that the government in the notification announces that the safety authorities will start work to identify and investigate operational uncertainties and risk factors of petroleum activities in the Barents Sea south-east. The opening area is regulated by the Barents Sea Management Plan and the sea areas outside Lofoten. Therefore, for the oil and gas activities in the area, companies cannot nominate areas in a 35 km belt from the baseline. In an area between 35 and 65 km from the baseline, exploration drilling in oil leading layers will not be permitted for the period from 1 March to 31 August. In areas close to 50 km from the observed edge of ice, exploration in oil leading layers will not be permitted between 1 March and 31 August. The Government also warns that it will initiate work to identify and assess operational uncertainties and risk factors of petroleum activities in the Barents Sea south-east. The impact study carried out by the Ministry of Oil and Energy shows that drifting findings in the Barents Sea south-east could have significant societal implications, both locally in northern Norway and in the rest of the country. Activities in the Barents Sea south-east could give rise to increased competence needs in the region. It is expected that the highest demand will come for people with education in electrical, mechanical, mechanical and construction subjects from high school or from post-secondary schools. I think it is gratifying that an overall committee stresses the importance of involving local apprentices in the companies that are gradually engaged in oil and gas activities in the area. This is the first time since 1994 that the Stortinget opens a new area for oil and gas activities. The fact that oil and gas activities are now being opened up in the south-east of the Barents Sea after over 40 years of negotiations makes this a historic day. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and recommend this recommendation from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1313	The Party of Progress is satisfied that, after the impact assessment, the Government proposes to open the Barents Sea south-east to petroleum industry. We are aware that despite great findings in recent years, oil production has fallen, and in particular we see that he will go down from 2020. It is therefore important that a precautionary approach to the opening of new areas is still taken. This with a search area for Norwegian oil and gas activity in order to ensure Norwegian base operational production volume in the future, sees the Progress Party as very important. Then there are challenges in the north. There are challenges in terms of ice, tough weather, etc. In this case, I feel that the arrangements for starting up are there, with regulations that take care of the matter. We see that the industries also want these kinds of challenges. It presents challenges for the engineering environment, both technologically and environmentally, and in many contexts further develops a technology that can also be used in global contexts. When it comes to industrial development in the northernmost part of our country, it has long been a wish that they should contribute and participate in a larger part of the value creation associated with the petroleum industry. As the case spokesperson had in mind, this is an important contribution to maintaining both construction and activity in this area, and it ends with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1326	An important prerequisite for Norway to maintain a high production volume for oil and gas in the future is the opening of new areas for exploration. A total accumulation was behind the leaders who were placed in connection with the treatment of the Report. St. 28 for 2010–2011, An industry for the future – about the petroleum industry, through the Inns.143 S for 2011–2012, and the Stortinget provided an ambitious expectation for future production volumes. It was almost 20 years ago that a new area was opened on a Norwegian base for oil and gas activities, and it is a pleasure that this is happening now. The right was clear that we wanted activity in the Barents Sea south-east as soon as the agreement with Russia on this formerly disputed area of the Barents Sea came into place and was ratified by both countries. On the right, this is partly about the possibility of asserting sovereignty through activity, partly about the importance of opening new areas of oil and gas activity to maintain production volume from Norwegian base, and last but not least, it is important to be able to set health, environment and safety standards for activities in those northern areas. The Russian authorities have allocated land on the Russian side of the demarcation line in the formerly disputed area, and it is important that Norway is also active in those sea areas. We record that there have been no significant negative objections in the impact assessment regarding the opening of this area, and that the opening is thus being incorporated into the step-by-step and knowledge-based development that we want to characterise the activity image on Norwegian pedestal. There are some comments I would like to link up with the handling of this matter. The cancellation message may have seemed immature when it was presented to Stortinget, and we have witnessed in many ways something that can be described as a seminar on the way forward in the process – where the government on the one hand had to deliver an additional message, namely Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Furthermore, we wonder how the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre openly engage in a double communication, where they state, on the one hand, that in the areas at the edge of the ice and the polar front, petroleum activity should not be started now, whereas in the same section, they state that this ‘does not prevent petroleum activities throughout the Barents' Sea in the south-east’. These comments are somewhat confusing, but I hope that today's debate may shed some light on what the government really means. The same restrictions apply to the petroleum activities in the south-east Barents Sea as to the other areas covered by the Barents Sea Management Plan and the off-Lofoten Sea Areas. To the right, it is important to address that the areas at the polar front and the ice edge are important biological areas that we need to take into account. We don't want oil and gas activity in these areas now, but we are calling for a professional discussion and definition of what should be perceived as the polar front and the ice edge, so that we get a consistent and knowledge-based approach to how to put these boundary lines forward. Furthermore, it is important for the Right that there is a significant strengthening of oil protection in the opening area. The last moment I want to mention is the need for predictability and stable framework conditions – both for the companies in the different licenses and for investors in infrastructure on Norwegian base. Unfortunately, a situation has arisen as a result of the oil and energy minister’s proposal to change tariffs for new gas transport contracts at Gassled, and the Right believes that the Council of State and the Ministry are making a wise approach to these issues. The authorities and the different companies and investors have a mutual interest of trust, predictability and a good climate of cooperation in the future, so that we together can take care of the growth potential of Norwegian pedestal in general, and perhaps in those northern areas in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1341	In several debates here in the United Kingdom, I have pointed to the International Energy Agency, which has said that if we are to have any chance of achieving the UN's 2 degree maximum temperature increase target, two thirds of the known fossil resources must remain below the seabed or in the ground. This applies most to coal, then oil, but also to gas. This applies not only to other countries, but also to Norway. SV takes IEA's message seriously, and we're busy reducing the oil extraction. In the Barents Sea, there may be oil and gas representing 800 million tonnes of CO2 or sixteen times Norway’s total climate emissions. This matter could also have been a matter of opening up the sea areas around Jan Mayen. It wasn't like that, it was the Minister for the Environment called 1-1 in the government. SV's view was that we went against opening both by Jan Mayen and the Barents Sea south-east. Both the Directorate for Climate and Pollution and the Directorate for Nature Management have strongly rejected the opening of the areas at Jan Mayen, and we are pleased that such a proposal did not come to pass. Environmental authorities and environmental organisations also warn against the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. Clif and the Norwegian Polar Institute point out that there has been a very short period of time since the clearance of the divider line, and much environmental monitoring remains. The Marine Research Institute is very critical. It is therefore too early to decide on opening on the basis of a comprehensive ecosystem and knowledge-based management. It is also noted that this part of the Barents Sea is very productive and an important spawning, grazing and living area for large fish populations, as well as important for declining seabird populations and marine mammals. The impact of oil spills will be high and the potential for efficient oil preparedness is minimal. Think of an emission far north of the Finnmark coast, with a cold, dark and storm. Even if an emission is considered unlikely, we can't take any chances. The precautionary principle should have been followed. There has been particular concern about oil drilling in the areas near the edge of the ice and near the coast of Finnmark. When the management plan was created, drilling at the ice edge was not so topical. This meant that the management plan is lacking in terms of looking at the rules to be applied at the ice edge and the polar front. Therefore, government parties point to the government’s formulations that petroleum activities should not be started at the ice edge and the polar front now, but that the issue should be re-examined in the context of the next management plan update. It will be the environmental work that Right also demands. At the same time, areas closer to the coast than 35 km from the baseline shall not be included in the nomination to 23rd concession rounds and there shall be drilling time limitations in the range 35 to 65 km from the baseline and 50 km from the observed ice edge. The management plan has a definition illustrated on a map of the ice edge and it is based on average ice over the past 30 years. Others have been operating on ice for the past 10 years. The Christian People's Party is basing itself on the 2003 derogation, on maximum ice distribution. The drawback of that definition is that it is based on an exceptional year, but it is a sympathetic definition in the sense that it means that half the area is not opened. But such a definition is not part of the consensus of the government, and there is no uprising among the other opposition parties for it. So we can see that there is a massive majority in the Storting to increase the oil and gas extraction. It weakens our climate policy, and it is clearly an issue that should be at the heart of the forthcoming election campaign. Let me stress that the decision today means that there will not now be any opening of Jan Mayen, who was originally supposed to be opened in this period. The Barents Sea south-east is opened, but the Decision also provides that it cannot be drilled in the ice or near the ice edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1359	In 2011, the 40-year rope draw between Russia and Norway finally resulted in a part-line agreement. It is primarily an agreement that is important to clarify a difficult matter between Norway and our largest neighbouring country. At the same time, the agreements also made it possible to assess the Barents Sea south-east of the opening of the petroleum industry, while at the same time there is progressive activity on the other side of the border. We have a tradition of paying attention and taking care to the policy of petroleum. The impact assessment carried out revealed relatively small potential environmental impacts of petroleum industry in the opening area, but the consequences are greatest in the northern part of the opening area. Nevertheless, increased petroleum activity in the north requires both new technologies and new solutions for oil protection. At the same time, we know that acute oil spills can have serious consequences for the environment. We have to take this seriously, and I am therefore pleased that the government will set limits on drilling in oil leading layers for periods of the year. There is no doubt that so far north is demanding. We can expect low temperatures and icing in winter, dark and strong winds. Therefore, a clear framework for activity is needed and, in cooperation with the social partners, the industry has developed a comprehensive HMS regulatory framework that imposes strict safety and governance requirements. The defence requirements will not be reduced by the fact that the action takes place under such demanding circumstances. Therefore, work shall be carried out to identify and eliminate operational safety and risk factors of petroleum activity in the area before search drilling and expansion can take place. The concrete follow-up to the petroleum activity in the area we are now opening is through the call and allocation of blocks, and there is a great responsibility on the government also in these processes to show consideration for the challenges posed by the climate in the area. It would be wise to consider these considerations, especially in the northernmost part of this area, when the announcement and allocation are to be made. If there are drifting findings in the Barents Sea south-east, it will create ringing effects, both locally in northern Norway and in the country otherwise. The centre party has clear expectations of the operators operating on the base that local and regional businesses will be able to compete for the provision of goods and services. Furthermore, we have expectations that one will be in good contact with local and regional authorities, and that one will actively facilitate the value creation of petroleum products through employment and through activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1374	This is a special case – I can't say anything else. It was mentioned that it is ‘historical sus’. Yes, it is historic, because the Storting opens for the first time that there may be petroleum activities in the ocean. In addition, there is a follow-up to a historical agreement with Russia, and there is a case that has strong leadership from the 2011 management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. It also applies to this area. It's a special case because we got a management plan for the Barents Sea south-east pretty late, as well as an additional one just 14 days ago. It's given the committee a little time. We have had a lot of things in ours, and such a big and so important thing should have been treated better. In addition, an exchange of letters has developed between the Council of State and the Committee – I felt I had a friend again – and through that exchange of letters we have defined the ice edge and the polar front, what is put into it. This Barents Sea Management Plan south-east is based on the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan. It was then defined as particularly vulnerable areas. That management plan has a thorough description of the vulnerable areas, and also in the context of the impact assessment in this case, many important environmental input has been made. I record, when I read the attachments, that many of the objections from the environmental and trade unions have only been taken for information, and one has really not answered well why one goes away from them. But I have registered that there has been a shift in these matters, where the environment has lost. In 2011, by the previous management plan, the government removed the requirement for zero emissions in these areas. At the same time, a requirement to have a 50-kilometre limit was removed from the baseline. It's now 35 kilometers. So now one opens up activity related to the polar front and the ice edge – despite the fact that I and all environmental organisations and environmental organisations believe that the Barents Sea management plan actually prevents it. It reminds me of the debate on the North Pole, which went on in August 2012. Then the oil and energy minister was clear that he had visions of reaching the North Pole, and his co-counsel, Bård Vegar Solhell, the Minister for the Environment, said to the E24 in August 2012: ‘There will be no drilling. SV will not be part of a government drilling for oil in the areas towards the North Pole.’ I would also like to quote from the management plan for the Barents Sea and Lofoten, where a clear and clear one writes: ‘The polar front also extends into the previously disputed area. Increased polar front production makes this an important grazing area, while the polar front is a natural and dynamic biogeographical frontier and therefore has relatively high biodiversity. However, it is wider and less marked in the east than in the west. Sea ice covers parts of the area during periods of the year.» Map and all that underlie the management plan actually indicate that one is clear that the polar front and the ice edge are entering this area that one is now opening. This refuses the Christian People's Party to be in. That is why I am addressing the proposals that we have in the matter. We do not rely on our own definition, we rely on the definition of the Directorate of Natural Management, the Polar Institute, the environmental movement, i.e. 50 km from the maximum ice distribution – not the definition that we obtained through the exchange of letters: «the ice edge observed at all times». When we saw who was given permission in the 22nd concession round, one saw that there were some of the northernmost areas that were opened. That's why I'm afraid it's the same thing that's going to happen in the 23rd Conseil Round – now I see the Council of State nodding. Obviously, when you're about to approach the North Pole, that's what must be at stake. But in addition, there has to be an opening with a view to finding that it can be produced throughout the year. Although you now have drilling time limitations, the challenge will be there in the production phase. At the same time, the Christian People's Party says that we want predictable conditions for the oil industry, and therefore we were clear in connection with the oil notification that we wanted to open the area. But then we also clearly say that there are some areas that need to be left behind – I can refer to the article to Aegean – that one actually knows that there are some of the resources that need to be on the ground, but then at least we can save the most vulnerable. To the post to Aegean I must say that I wonder greatly: Jan Mayen shall not be opened now, he says. Then I can quote from the setting on page 1: ‘For this purpose, the Government shall carry out the opening processes in the Barents Sea south-east and in the Norwegian sea areas at Jan Mayen.’ If SV sees it as a victory, I would like the Minister of Oil and Energy to confirm that it is. I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1405	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1408	I will just briefly take the floor today to say that the Left joins the comments and the post of the representative of the Christian People's Party and announces that we will vote in favour of the minority proposals of the Christian People's Party. The left has also got State Council Ola Borten Moes to play out last year that he wants to drill to the North Pole, and also the Council of State Solhjell's response that this was not a red-green policy. Well, now it happens. On Monday, the newspaper said that there have been 40 oil spills from the Norwegian base in the last year. The revelations of large oil spills every day should lead the government to halt the opening of petroleum activities at the ice edge and the polar front in the Barents Sea south-east. In a case where the uncertainty related to vulnerability and preparedness is already high, the majority of population should use the opportunity today to turn around and take a break in thinking, instead of going for the full opening of the Barents Sea south-east. All professional environments identify the edge of the ice and the polar front as particularly vulnerable areas, and the management plan also points out, as was said before, that there are significant gaps in knowledge related to these areas. The State's own environmental professional bodies have serious objections to the risk assessments, the emergency situation and the challenges associated with the handling of oil spills in ice-filled waters, and an overall environmental movement, as has also been mentioned, has asked the Storting to say no to petroleum activities in ice-filled waters. Time and again, this government has chosen to ignore environmental advice. The left asks that they now base the precautionary principle and reject petroleum activity in the most vulnerable areas. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the climate perspective in this matter. This week, the Central Statistical Agency presented an analysis showing that a reduction in Norwegian oil and gas production will be a cost-effective climate action, both in Norway and globally. The left-wing parties are asking for attention to be paid to this report when any projects from this area and other areas are addressed in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1425	Let me start by quoting a well-known song: 'It's okay to be gentle.' Because now there have been so many problems here that I feel that we may have really forgotten what is actually happening, namely a very big and important decision for Norway. It is also with considerable amazement that I hear part of the posts that are being held. It sounds like you're very opposed, but the fact is that everyone is going to vote for, at least as far as I can understand. So you're in favour of, but just a little bit, and then you're a little bit of environmental advice as well – an interesting approach. Once, the Barents Sea was known as Murmanskoje morje, the North Man Sea. His current name was given the area in the 1590s by Willem Barents, when he discovered this and sailed halfway through the northeast passage. In the centuries that followed, there was a need for explorers to travel to the Barents Sea and the Arctic to find new land and sea routes to America and Asia. The Nansen was allowed to freeze inside with "From" in the 1890s, hoping to drive to the North Pole. And in 1901 the Russians sailed with their first icebreaker to Spitsbergen. With scheduled flights to Longyearbyen and car expeditions to the North Pole, the Arctic is not as exotic today. Today, we set the scene for a process that started under the Borten government in 1967, namely the initiative related to the sharing line negotiations with the Russians. On 19 June 2013 will be held as a brand day in Norwegian oil and gas history. It's been almost 20 years since the last time we opened up a new area. Today we can open the Barents Sea south-east. It would have been impossible if we had not concluded in 2010 after 43 years of negotiations with the Russians. At the same time as we write history, we repeat an important feature of Norwegian oil and gas policy. There's cross-political agreement on the big lines. It was a total expansion that initiated the opening processes of the Barents Sea south-east. There was an overall increase in funding for the monitoring of oil and gas resources. And as far as I can see, there's a total mass that's going to go in for opening. The main objectives of oil and gas policy are to facilitate profitable oil and gas production in the long term. If we are to succeed in this, new areas must be opened. It is one of the main messages in the last oil message, which also received unanimous support from this hall. The Storting has also decided to initiate an opening process for Norwegian areas at Jan Mayen. There is still considerable uncertainty about the potential for oil and gas. In order to facilitate the best possible decision-making basis for the Storting, I have given the Oil Directorate more time to finalise the resource mapping. With the opening of the Barents Sea south-east and recently found in the already open areas of the Barents Sea, it has created enthusiasm, faith and new opportunities in Finnmark and North Norway especially and throughout the country in general. There's growth in Hammerfest, there's growth in Harstad, at Veidnes there's going to be a big investment. I hope and believe that this is just the beginning. The opening of the Barents Sea south-east is also about facilitating activity as developments take place on the Russian side. In 2011, the Russian authorities granted permits to operate petroleum in most of the Russian part of the formerly disputed area, which is also much further north than what we are talking about here. In order to ensure sound oil and gas operations, in particular in northern Barents Sea south-east, the Government will undertake work to identify and investigate operational uncertainties and risk factors in activities in the region. The Barents Sea Management Plan - The Lofoten provides a framework for the oil and gas activities that also concern the south-east Barents Sea. The government's proposals are in line with these frameworks. We propose to open the whole of the Barents Sea south-east, but it will take some time before oil and gas operations are started. Thus, there will be no activity in the current period. The next update of the management plan will review the framework for petroleum activities as a whole. This includes, of course, the question of petroleum activity at the ice edge and the polar front. In the case of acute emissions, the damage potential is significant. In order to manage the environmental risk, the government proposes limitations in oil drilling during periods of the year. Then it's worth noting that there's going on all year round petroleum activity and production in iced waters in countries like the United States, Canada and Russia and in the Caspian Sea. This means that these countries have a long experience in dealing with ice problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1459	Now the Council of State was so much concerned, but during the opening of the Barents Sea south-east, there will be some challenges in the form of ice, tough weather and wind conditions that are special, and not least in the case of oil protection equipment and being able to have a type of equipment that is appropriate in polar struts. Just in that context, as has been mentioned before, it has been a form of double communication when one says on the one hand that the boundary should go at the polar front and at the ice edge, while the other places are said to open the whole Barents Sea southward. Also with the background that there is an impression that the Council of State wants oil drilling all the way up to the North Pole – based on a media’s presentation, this is a topicality – it would be good if the Council of State had now taken advantage of the opportunity to clearly define what one adds to these two, the ‘polar front and the ice edge’ and the ‘whole Barents Sea south-east’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1464	On a general basis, you have to be a little cautious about doing good for all the facts you think you're getting in the media. There is no doubt about what area the government here is proposing to open, and there is no doubt about what is Norwegian continental shelf, and what is not. We're now opening up the entire Barents Sea south-east of search activity. That will be the basis for the 23rd concession round. I hope and believe that in the 23rd concession round we will experience an interest in allocations in these areas. That's in and out of the way also part of the point. The framework attached to this Decision will apply to the 23rd round of concessions. The next update of the management plan will focus on the framework for annual operation in the usual way, as has been done elsewhere and otherwise on the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1473	I hope that it was clear from my post that the Right is pleased that we are now getting this opening of these areas, even though I record that some of the Council's colleagues in the Red-Green coalition are standing a little further in line when now an overall committee votes for this opening. My question to the Council of State is to define the edge of the ice. We address the significance of the edge of the ice in relation to biology, and that one has to be careful on the edge of the ice. Then it's important to know where this goes. Temperature and wind vary; the edge of the ice will vary. Will the Council of State follow up our recommendation to work for a professional consensus on how the ice edge is to be perceived?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1480	Yes, there is no doubt that the areas at and at the ice edges are vulnerable to possible acute emissions. That is why the management plan states that there should be no activity in these areas during this period, and that is also why we are now proposing drilling time limitations in the document that is now on the table. I'm not going to predict if it's possible to achieve a professional consensus on what's the ice edge, but I think that the government is proposing today is pretty bombproof, because you're starting from the actual/observed edge of the ice, that's where the ice is at all times, and then you have to be a few kilometers away from it, like a safety zone, as well. Let there be no doubt: with the decision taken here, there will be no drilling in oil-bearing layers in or in the immediate vicinity of the ice edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1489	This is the definition that the Council of State sent to the Committee, and that is the definition that the size must be based on. That's why my question is, when one defines the edge of the ice and the polar front as moving, and ‘the one observed at all times’, is it so to understand that the council is thinking of lighting up areas for opening? If it is done – is it not really such that production cannot be started there? It may need to be considered in the next management plan because the ice edge and the polar front can move so far that it cannot be full-year production. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1494	These are the frameworks applicable to the next concession round. Let there be no doubt about it. I hope and believe that we will get a lot of interest in this whole area. There are several places in this area that are very prospective, and where I think there are great opportunities. The forthcoming work on a new management plan will clarify the framework for annual production. But let me exemplify: it's not given that a find far north, within what you can say is the floating definition of the edge of the ice, i.e. where you can have ice some parts of the year, has to result in an oil platform that's on the bottom of the sea, or that's solid. It could also be that you have underwater installations. If you get the last, as far as I can understand, it can be as much ice as it wants. It doesn't really matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1501	Thanks for the answer. What I have really asked for throughout the proceedings is a more honest debate about what it really is about, because when you hear from the Council of State, there is no doubt that there can be activity where the ice is. He acknowledges the risk, but is not afraid to enter the areas. If you listen to the representative of Aegean, it's a discussion you push far ahead of you, and you don't want to be caught. Therefore, I also think that the important question is: when opening the area for finding and production, the Stortinget should, in terms of the so-called definition, be determined in the next management plan, but as the Council of State has already clarified, send clear signals that this is the case. In our proposal, we define the edge of the ice in the same way as the environmental professionals: the maximum ice distribution from 2001 to 2011 plus 50 km. That's the definition that should be used. As I see it, it means opening up the area, which in turn will provide production in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1510	To underline what is happening here now and to be embarrassingly precise about it: what we are now adopting is the framework for the next concession round, for the announcement and the frames around possible exploration drilling. The framework for annual activity will be laid down in the next treatment of the management plan. I can't foreshadow what the government and the Storting will jointly lay around that business. But the edge of the ice may be a problem. It's a rich biological area, but let me just remind you that a field that Johan Castberg will have to be built and dimensioned so that you can deal with ice problems for a few years, simply because you can get ice statistically in that part of the Barents Sea as well. I have not registered that it is that if there is ice there, it means that under no circumstances can you have any kind of activity. However, there is a problem that we need to address, in order, in the usual way, to meet all the environmental challenges that we know we will meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1515	The representative of Aegean went a long way in suggesting that there was no opening of the areas around Jan Mayen in exchange for the Socialist Left Party to join in an opening of the Barents Sea south-east, while the Council of State in its intervention justified the postponement that the Oil Directorate needs more time. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State deny that the reason for not getting an opening of the areas around Jan Mayen was that it was negotiated away with the Socialist Left Party to get a unified government that stands behind the opening of the Barents Sea south-east?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1522	Jan Mayen is at the Oil Directorate. They have had more time to assess the resource allocations, because we believe that we will have a more complete decision-making basis to provide the Stortinget with a possible opening case. Of course, the government has not, as a consequence of this, decided to promote a case of opening up the areas around Jan Mayen. Then there had been a proposition here in Stortinget today. It doesn't, but there is no decision to not promote a proposition for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1528	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1533	When the Storting decides today to open the Barents Sea south-east of petroleum activity, it is a happy day for all of us who are concerned with new opportunities in the north. With a potential of up to ten new Goliath fields, the oil adventure is now coming seriously to East Finland. The area is facing amazingly exciting opportunities, which provide a basis for optimism and population growth. The opening of the Barents Sea south-east is a historic day for Norway. It is the first time since 1994 that new areas have been opened up to oil activity here to countries. The centre party has a strong commitment to create new opportunities in the north, as a result of increased oil activity. The opening of the new area allows the district to take a quantum leap into the new oil age in northern Norway. With this expansion, oil activity in the north can have a size that provides a basis for increased growth, development for the supplier industry and several local ring-effects. The outlook for high opportunities for business provides optimism in the region and increased oil activity is good district policy. A potential population growth in the north offers completely new prospects for more communities, and that is why there is every reason to raise the flag north today. Oil activity in these areas will also have much to say for the recruitment of young people and their choice of education in the future, subject to driving findings. We see that many young people in Northern Norway, who work today, for example. in Stavanger, now applying northwards. It's positive. We also know that the number of applicants for petroleum-related studies has doubled among young people in the north in recent years. Young people see opportunities for the oil industry to move northwards. It is therefore important that young people now qualify for these opportunities by making forward-looking educational choices. Yesterday, the oil and energy minister and I visited the well-engineering class at Stangne High School in Harstad. These are Nordic young people who qualify for a future in the oil industry in the north and who welcome this development. It is particularly gratifying that all of these qualified students have been given apprenticeships since the fall of the year. That's very good. One of these students is Kristin from Tana. Her goal is to continue living in Tana, and to be able to work offshore off the coast of North Norway – preferably in Finnmark. With today's historic decision, we give Kristin and other young people in the north this opportunity, so that they can create their future in our fantastic part of the country. That's what this is really about. Congratulations on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1561	It was a relief to hear the previous speeches, which are one of the few expressing enthusiasm for the great thing we're actually doing now. Consider the situation in which many of our neighbouring countries are located, where light and light are sought for industries that can provide employment, create values and keep society going. Now we're opening up a sea area for the first time in almost 20 years and making it possible to take out even greater values, create even more jobs, develop even more of our country with knowledge-based industry, which is ahead of us. I've registered that the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, believes it's a disaster to train people to work in this industry. I deeply disagree with that. I believe that it is precisely the knowledge that we have acquired through the oil business on Norwegian base, which has made it possible for us to develop a petroleum industry and a supplier industry that is at the forefront of the world in terms of environmental conservation and petroleum activities under environmentally sound conditions. It is related to the fact that we have made tough demands on this industry over time. The results today are that the activity on the Norwegian base has very low emissions. It is referred to so-called disclosures of 40 emissions on the Norwegian base as if it were a disaster in itself. The reality is that the quantity of emissions and the oil content of water are well below the permitted limit values of our good environmental professionals – almost 40 pst. below the total amount allowed, if I don't remember completely wrong. This is the result of targeted work to create more environmentally friendly production on Norwegian soil, which not only gives our oil companies, but also our supplier industry, great competitive advantage outside the world, where they do a good job. They are attractive partners and attractive suppliers, precisely because they have experience from our base. Now we're opening up further areas in Arctic waters. We know that the Arctic is rich in oil and gas resources and will be an area where there will be a lot of operations in the future. Our industry and Norwegian companies on the base, as well as our administration, should show the way in how these resources can be mined properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1570	I drew myself to make some comments to the representative Roppstad – not because I have a great need to polemise against him, because I do feel that he means the same thing as the SV's primary position, but it is important to clarify that the Polar Institute relies on a definition that is average ice prevalence over the ten-year period. They point in their opinion to the need for a more detailed investigation into the issues of the ice edge, and that is what is at the heart of today’s decision. The initial reference to Jan Mayen in the summary in the case just shows what could have been the setting, what could have been the case: the matter could have started as an opening of the Barents Sea and Jan Mayen, but the setting now limits itself to the Barents Sea south-east. The government has not made a decision on Jan Mayen; that is the reality. The question of nomination to the 23rd concession round will come to the harvest and is likely to be a topic for discussion regardless of the government that is then seated. The environmental movement has been concerned about this, and that is good. I have received messages saying that the climate problem is so serious that it cannot be compromised. My answer is that the climate problem is so serious that one cannot fail to make use of the possibility of a compromise – when there is such a massive majority, with the three parties that came to the end of the 2013 Climate Change Election ranking of the parties. In fact, the question of drilling where it is possible to do so will depend on the environmental conclusions of the next management plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1581	I would like to share the enthusiasm with Per Rune Henriksen and others, who have spoken about it. This is because we want the industry to be predictable, we want new permits to be granted and new areas to be opened. But we've focused on the most existing, already open areas, to get the most out of every well that's opened. Then we've said that Norway has to take responsibility and leave some of the resources in the ground, and then we've said that we want to leave the most vulnerable areas -- it's Jan Mayen, it's the Lofoten, the West and Senja or the Barents Sea south-east, in the north, just because of the debate we have today. That's why I spend time in my posts talking about it, instead of talking about the area we open. To the Council of State: This is not a proposition that Stortinget is voting for or against, it's a message that we're taking for information. That is why there is also a proposal from the Christian People's Party here, which states that we are in favour of opening up the areas in which we believe it is appropriate to enter – the step-by-step opening for which we are well known in Norway – while demanding that the most vulnerable areas cannot be opened, and then, as I said, we define these as 50 km from the maximum ice distribution. As far as the SV compromise is concerned, it is interesting to listen to the representative of Aegean. Whatever's right or not, there's little doubt that Jan Mayen has gone so far that it's going to take a lot to stop it. I also register what the Council of State says about that matter. So if it's the compromise that you don't open in this big time period, it's just talking about months before it might be done in the next one. When I hear the representative Henriksen and the councillor Borten Moe, I think that the main challenge there is that there are no restrictions at all, there is one not concerned about opening, there is one clear that one opens the whole area. However, when one listens to the representative of Aegean, there are clear limitations, one takes into account environmental assessments, one has to take the definition in the next management plan, etc. As I was about to do in my reply: I wish we had a much clearer or more honest debate, that we discussed whether it is proper to go into these areas, whether we can combine petroleum activities with the ice and the polar front, and that one says yes or no. I feel that at best it has been a little hidden. Regardless of the definition on which the ice edge and the polar front are based, the Lofoten and the West Pole management plan, it is applicable to this area, and the management plan states that the polar front and the ice edge go into these areas. Therefore, I believe that there should be no doubt, it says clearly, and then we should also make a decision on that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1594	Now the representative Ropstad made such a good point that I could almost have pulled myself, for the sake of the evening peace, but I would like to comment on something that concerns the big picture, also because the misquote of me is repeated on the pulpit. The big challenge for Norway today is that we have an extremely two-part economy, where we have an oil industry that attracts all the skills, investment and innovation. This two-way division of Norwegian economy has some frightening perspectives. A study from BI, for example. shows us that if the oil price falls quickly to the level it was at just a short time ago, we can experience a fall on Oslo Stock Exchange at 30-40 pst. Then we have a financial crisis. Then we have a big problem. That means we have to have a little more look at our oil industry than just cheering over fields after fields. That means we need to have a look at how this affects the Norwegian economy. The lack of commitment to research, innovation and innovation by this government and the continuous expansion of the oil sector are in the process of jeopardising the safety of the Norwegian economy. This has led us to at least be able to discuss whether it is right to open fields after fields. I just have to notice that the Left and Christian People's Party in the previous government, in cooperation with the Right, gained a much greater contemplation as to where it is best to open, and where it is best not to open. I also notice that yesterday we received a report that told us about the number of emissions from the Norwegian base. Today we get a report that tells us that the way we operate oil is in some respects more dirty than oil sand drift. But it doesn't seem like it makes any sense to the government parties that we're moving closer and closer to the ice edge, which is the area where we have trouble coping with emissions. The left likes to have a slightly larger perspective on the debates you have. That doesn't mean you're against the oil industry. That just means you have to have a slightly longer perspective for the grips that are being done. Perhaps what is now being produced as the great salvation of district policy can be a huge problem for that region if what we have now foreseen is happening. That's what I think at least you should be able to think. That's why we're going to agree with the Christian People's Party on today's matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1609	We have now received further speakers on the list of speakers. The next speaker is the representative Ola Borten Moe – State Council Ola Borten Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1614	Thank you, President Andersen. I took the word to comment on the previous article. Well, you might say that the left has a ‘a little bigger perspective’, but I would probably call it a little more approximate perspective, where you put big questions about what there has been a broad deal and approach to in Norwegian oil and gas policy. Then you question the profitability. You draw the weaning into doubt at all, but then you end up voting for it. Just to get it said: I am glad that today the Left will vote for the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. The last time we discussed an extension case – Asta Hansteen – the Left voted against it because suddenly people had completely different assumptions, which they had made on themselves, than those that were based on the companies, from the Oil Directorate and from the Department. The reason why I point this out is that I think the Left deserves to be reminded that if you now have completely different assumptions that underlie policy development, they owe us at least what assumptions you want to base. I would like to say on a general basis that I think that what is our strength is often seen as a major problem. We live in a country that has low unemployment, high value creation, and experiences growth in many sectors. There is no doubt that much of this is driven forward by the optimism and progress we are making in the Norwegian oil and gas industry. But that's not a problem. That's what makes us different from many of the countries that are now struggling with high unemployment, partly falling value creation and major structural challenges. I think we're also going to see a development in Norway, built on rich natural resources, but also a management system, a business life, people and competences, capable of harvesting these resources and bringing society back and forth. This is not value loss. These are the most competent jobs, which are able to compete on an international market. To end with the sense of reality, this is one of our greatest comparative advantage. I hope and believe that we will jointly be able to develop further. I also think that the Left owes us an answer to what you think is wrong, and what assumptions you might use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1631	Actually, I didn't have to take the floor, because the view the Council of State put forward from the pulpit now, I totally share. It's amazing to hear that what has brought wealth to our country in the last 40 years was going to lead us kind of standing and grinning to go up to the North Pole. Of course we have to. But when we started in Ekofisk, you shouldn't go north of 62th parallel, because it was so dangerous. This is part of the evolution. What makes the Norwegian supplier industry so good and present in all world markets? This is because oil and gas extraction has generated so much profit that a lot of money can be used to develop equipment. Without it, Norway had not had the supplier industry we have today. Therefore, it is a joyous day for the Barents Sea to be opened south-east to petroleum activities. When you come up with something so stupid as saying that training oil workers shouldn't be done, you really don't understand what it's all about. Of course, those who have knowledge of oil, realists, can also be used to place windmills on seabeds. That's what's happening. We're not locked up because if people are educated into the oil sector. When we know the perspective – that it might last another 50 years – it's clear that those who train today will have jobs for the rest of their lives. Finally, I would like to say that we are talking about leaving the oil in the North Callot. Is there anyone who has calculated what that means for the economy? World society cannot afford to leave that oil and gas there at all. It will never be possible to obtain so much renewable energy in the form of wind, water and sun in a short time, which will result in the extraction of oil and gas – the quantities of petroleum – from the North Callot. That's why we have to stand on. Evolution has to move forward, but there has to be a lot of effort. To what Skei Grande said, it's precisely because we have such a good economy that we can spend so much money on research. Of course, we should use even more in the future, we can afford that, and we'll do that. This is going to be a happy day, and there will be some happy decades for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1648	The President will be made aware that using the term "stupid" about the views of others seems unwise to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1652	I need to mark a little distance to the previous speaker. Now I assume that the post was not directed towards the Christian People's Party, but towards Left's posts instead. But when the representative Skumsvoll says that we're going to the North Pole of course, I don't want to say that it's obvious. When Skumsvoll talks about the enormous values, I see the enormous values that lie in the petroleum resources, but I also see the serious consequences of any climate change, or climate change that we know will come. The IEA says clearly that we should be able to achieve the two degree goal by 50 pst. probability, two thirds of the petroleum resources – coal – must be in the ground. Today we have had a discussion about the environment, about local emissions and challenges with the ice edge, the polar front. But the big climate debate is also relevant. It is seen in such a perspective that perhaps the huge resources there – not only perhaps, but many of those resources – must lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1661	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1675	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1684	Norway has a good starting point for the development of gas-based industrial activities with our large oil and gas resources on Norwegian soil. Furthermore, the Committee considers that increased industrial value creation based on natural gas, provided that such use takes place within our national and international climate policy obligations, can provide a valuable contribution to Norwegian business. Most of the gas exported is domestic for processing before being exported. The Committee therefore notes that we have large quantities of gas available for petrochemical activities in Norway. Today, there is also a well-established petrochemical industry in Norway, among others. on the Tjeldbergodden. In government petroleum message, An industry for future, Report.St. 28 for 2011–2012, a review of conditions and potential for the gas-based industry has been carried out in Norway. Furthermore, it has been noted that the government writes in its communication that it will facilitate increased industrial use of gas in Norway. The majority, the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, do not share the view that a market place of the type proposed here is the right way to address this issue. One finds it unlikely that the creation of a market place will compensate for the market failures we see today in the Norwegian gas market. At the same time, a majority say that it is therefore of little use to ask the government to submit a proposal to the Stortinget for the creation of such a gas market place in Norway. The majority are also of the opinion that issues relating to the domestic gas use market in Norway belong naturally to the discussion on how Norway is to implement the third EU gas market directive and how Norway is to deal with Norway’s derogation from the key provisions of the second EU gas market directive for downstream gas activities in 2014. I recommend the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1701	Norwegian gas is important for energy supply in Europe and is exported to all major consumer countries in Western Europe. Norway exported more than 100 billion Sm3 natural gas in 2010. The majority of Norwegian gas exports are in pipelines to Germany, the United Kingdom, Belgium and France, where Norwegian gas amounts to between 20 and 30 pst. of the total consumption. Norwegian gas exports in total correspond to electricity to 149 million European households. This illustrates the energy potential of our natural resource natural gas. As gas markets have grown and developed – not least through regulation in the EU internal market – this role as a guarantor of volume reductions has become somewhat less important. For example, the United Kingdom is the United Kingdom. Today, the second largest liberalised gas market after the US is with significant short-term liquidity. Developments in recent years have pushed down gas prices. The North American gas revolution has made the United States self-sufficient in gas, and gas prices in North America have fallen sharply. This significant change in the gas market should facilitate greater domestic use of gas, especially in industrial terms. Increasing the use of gas domestically in Norway has been a broad policy objective for a long time. Among other things, the Government of Bondevik II is promoting two flood notifications on the use of gas in Norway. In the processing of both messages, there was broad consensus in the Stortingen to facilitate increased use of gas in Norway, based on a good starting point for the development of gas-based industrial activity with our large oil and gas resources on a Norwegian base. Increased industrial value creation based on natural gas can provide a valuable boost to Norwegian business, as we see established in the petrochemical industry, mainly on Raffnes and the Her Island of Telemark and on the Tjeldbergodden. Sargas' purchase of Industrial Power More is yet another example of opportunities for domestic use of natural gas, an exciting project with CO2 capture. The Ironman project assessed on the Tjeldbergodden is also another clear candidate for the natural gas-based industrial enterprise. As part of the Gassmaks programme, the Norwegian Research Council commissioned former Statoil Director Terje Martin Halmø to allocate a market-based gas trading venue in Norway. The conclusion from that is that this is possible, it is about the willingness to establish a ‘hub’. I bring this up with the Progress Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1728	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1731	For a small country with significant natural resources, it may be tempting to take on the role of supplier of raw materials. It takes far more of us to have ambitions to build industry, secure jobs, take advantage of opportunities and seize growth potential for increased value creation. Our gas resource is such a raw material, and Norway is a significant gas producer. Today we could read in Today's Business that Norway has for the first time passed Russia as the largest supplier of natural gas to the European market, according to BP's annual energy statistics. This shows which gas nation Norway has evolved to remain in relatively few years. When the Storting treated the last petroleum message, the Right and the Advance Party asked the Government to consider promoting a separate gas message that would address Norway’s role as a gas nation both nationally and internationally. Unfortunately, this request was not followed up by the government, and when we combine it with the response to this representative’s proposal, it is difficult to see that the government has an active attitude towards industrial policy based on our gas resources – in addition to what had to be seen in the celebrations. I am recording that both the Workers' Party and the Center's party in their batch programmes for the next large-scale period write that they want to facilitate the use of Norwegian gas for industrial value creation to a greater extent. With all due respect, it is difficult to trace some of this ambition in the vote on the proposal for a representative we are now considering. This position testifies to a passive approach to industrial policy based on our gas resources. The question should also be how we, as a significant gas nation, can identify some comparative advantage and build on them in an industrial perspective. If a national gas trading venue was established, would not the Norwegian industry be able to buy the gas more reasonably than on the continent, as a result of lower freight costs? At least it would be to take advantage of the comparative advantage, namely the principle of subsidiarity. We use little gas nationally in relation to what is exported, but surprisingly, the response to the Energy and Environment Committee uses something that may appear to be wrong facts. The Council of State writes that according to the SSB the consumption in Norway was only 514 million Sm3 and that most of this is linked to the methanol factory on the Tjeldbergodden. This is somewhat surprising, as the OD’s new factsheet, Fact 2013, shows that domestic gas consumption is more than twice that of 1.4 billion Sm3 in 2012. This is about 15.5 TWh in energy or about 15 pst. of the total Norwegian power generation, and there is not exactly a negligible share. This shows that the consumption of gas in Norway is roughly at the level of consumption in Denmark. In Denmark, a hub was established, Nord Pool Gas, which sells approx. 20 pst. of the gas down there, with good experience in lowering the price of gas in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1756	The previous speaker accused the government of having a passive approach to the industrial use of gas in Norway. I do not agree with that. The assumption must be that it must be measured in order to wish for the industrial use of gas. In that case, it must be for this proposal and for this market place to be accepted. The marketing of gas in Norway is a commercial responsibility. The Norwegian gas transport system Gassled is an upstream system that includes land installations and a network of pipelines from findings to land, between findings and to markets. This system is operated by resource management considerations and is essential to ensure the highest possible value creation on Norwegian soil and hence for Norwegian society. It will always be that the alternative value of the sale of gas on a Norwegian base will be the price that can be achieved in Europe. In order for any market place to function, it must be reliable, that is to say, that price formations on the market place are perceived as proper for all parties. What characterises the Norwegian market for the industrial use of gas is that it is relatively small, that, in so far as it occurs, long-term industrial contracts, i.e. large volumes, are sold, and that there are little frequent transactions. It is unlikely to contribute to the correction of any market failure in the system, thereby making a trading venue much less efficient. Since the alternative value for gas sold on a Norwegian base will still be the price to be achieved in Europe, it is unlikely that the creation of a market place will lead to any change in the price at which the gas will be purchased. Summing up, industrial development in gas in Norway – which I hope you get, there are also some interesting industrial projects – these projects and enterprises must find themselves paying for the gas that they are worth and that they can compete with alternative methods of disposal. That means that, in my opinion, there is no need for such a market place, and that it is also not appropriate to use resources to investigate this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1779	On 7 June 2007, an evening post read that the work on a gas message was in full swing under the State Council of Enoxen. One week later, on Thursday 14 June 2007, the case of the extension of Gjøa and Vega up to treatment in the Stortinget, and the spokesperson for the case, Ola Borten Moe. He finished his post with: ‘I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of State when he sees that such a message can be provided.’ State Council Enoksen's answer was: ‘The work on such an overall review is now ongoing and will be submitted to the Stortinget in the next year, i.e. 2008.’ So this message was started in June 2007 and is about to set a Norwegian record, a very dubious Norwegian record. The work was not finished under Odd Roger Enoxen, not under Åslaug Haga and not under Terje Riis-Johansen. Does the State Council, which called for this message in 2007, intend to break the pattern and make sure that the message is presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1798	I have a strong memory that we have discussed this on several occasions before. The fact is that we are not going to provide any specific gas message. It is also announced from this pulpit earlier. The reason for this is that the main lines of both Norwegian oil policy and Norwegian gas policy are not only fixed, but are also duly addressed in the oil notification, or Meld.St. 28 for 2010–2011, An industry for the future – about the petroleum industry, which was treated in this hall last year, and then with unanimous agreement included the representative by my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1804	I understand that the Council of State is not attached to this market place, but the Minister at the same time confirms that Norway's derogation from the downstream part of the EU gas directive expires in 2014. It would then be interesting to know how the Council of State has intended that the Directive's requirement for price transparency can be complied with if a market place is not established, which has been proposed by the Right with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1809	I have to get back to that in detail. Some of this can and will be a question of negotiation. Of course, the starting point will be to ensure the best possible performance of Norwegian interests and Norwegian value creation. The Ministry of Oil and Energy always acts responsibly and in the long term. Let me add that we want industrial use of gas in Norway. It would be very gratifying if we could have developed more jobs and greater value creation using gas in industrial processes in Norway. It assumes that these companies and these projects are able to defend the gas price that will alternatively be achieved in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1816	Then I want to go back to what I was in my post about the market place for gas in Denmark, which handles a smaller volume than what is actually used domestically in Norway. Nevertheless, the Danish have good experience with this market place and believe it has been price-reducing in terms of the gas price to Danish customers. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State know how this market place in Denmark works, and is there any reason to believe that we should not experience the same kind of positive experience in Norway regarding the possibility of extracting gas at a competitive price for domestic industrial users?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1823	I always think we should look at the countries and the world around us to make our systems better all the time. To the extent that we can learn something, I think we should do it. To the extent that you have ideas and practices elsewhere that can help create an effect you want, I always think it's interesting. Now I do not know the Danish gas market in detail. On a general basis, some countries in Europe have an infrastructure and a consumption pattern of gas that is different from our own – now I am not talking about Denmark – where one has an infrastructure that extends into the individual household, and this is also used as raw material in the small industry and industrial development in a completely different way from those we do in Norway. Of course, it creates a completely different market, a completely different demand and a completely different dynamics – with very few and large reductions – than what can be seen in Norway. It's kind of the same way that we have it on power, where we have a market place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1830	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1846	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1855	This is not a debate for or against wind power, or for or against local communities benefiting from the establishment of wind power. The proposers want the government to set up a sample to assess the fiscal and concessional framework conditions for wind power generation with a view to obtaining a share of the rent and compensation for environmental disadvantages from the communities concerned. The Committee agrees that it is important that investments in wind power plants have local ring-effects both in the form of assignments to the supplier industry during development and subsequent maintenance work. It is precisely a prerequisite for the creation of wind power that local communities take a positive view of this type of energy production. For local communities, future incomes of municipalities are an important element in an overall assessment of how the municipality's land is to be used. Government parties point out that municipalities can receive income from issuing property taxes. Voluntary agreements on contributions from builders may also be concluded. It has previously decided that the corporation tax should not be payable in whole or in part to the individual municipality, because it is not predictable. It will affect smaller municipalities in particular and provide them with unstable income. When corporate taxes were removed from municipalities, they were also compensated for an increased share of the income of personal taxpayers. By 2020, we will develop a lot of renewable energy within the framework of the electricity certificates. The majority of the Committee considers that a reduction in a sample would signal substantial changes to the framework conditions and profitability of wind power. It will create an uncertainty in the industry that will make it even more difficult to achieve wind power in Norway. We already see that many projects that have received a concession are not realized because they are not profitable. I assume that the proposers themselves will present their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1870	The resistance to granting concession for the construction of wind turbines seems to be increasing all over the country. Footprints from this production are in many cases very large. In my home municipality of Farsund, a few years ago, a concession was granted for the construction of 32 wind turbines. To arrive at the windmills to be placed on some of Lista’s highest mountains, 25 km of road had to be built with a planning width — including shoulders — of 10 metres. If you compare it to the new E39 from Lvgval to Flekkefjord, it was constructed at 7.3 meters in width. The mills are 120 meters above the ground and consist of 80 meters mill tower and 40 meters rotors. Compared to the so-called monster masts in Hardanger, this is really dominant in the terrain. In addition, it has been shown that there is a not insignificant noise from the mills when they leave. The Progress Party was the only ones who voted against the regulation plan and thus the construction of mills in Farsund. Many landowners who got millers on their property were satisfied in the first place with the one-off compensation and the annual rental amount. This now seems to be getting smaller and smaller. The municipal politicians in Farsund and other municipalities are looking to raise income for their municipality. With today's arrangement, it's only a property tax from the mill park. All four civil parties support the proposal for a representative, Document 8: 115 S, for 2012–2013, ‘to give the community concerned a greater share of the value creation from wind power generation’. [[...]] Wind power municipalities want to have part of the profits when the production of renewable energy from wind turbines generates profits. Such a scheme can best be implemented by reducing a competent sample. The sample shall identify how the fiscal and concessional framework conditions for wind power generation can be designed in such a way that the communities concerned are guaranteed a share of the rent from wind power generation and compensation for local environmental disadvantages. The Progress Party agrees that it is important to have a regulatory framework for the host municipalities for wind power generation. This study is to deal with the distribution of taxes, not with increased taxes. Finally, I take up the minority proposal from the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1887	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1890	Through the accession of the EU renewable directive and the creation of the electricity certificate market with Sweden, which is to stimulate new renewable energy production in these countries up to 2020, it is important that we facilitate the production of wind power in Norway. As you know, almost all of our electricity production comes from hydropower, making it vulnerable in terms of security of supply in periods of low rainfall in combination with strong cold. Development of wind power means that at least some of our electricity production is being differentiated to become somewhat more independent of rainfall. The establishment of wind farms in reality requires local communities to be interested in making their nature available for this type of investment. Wind farms will provide local and regional jobs at a plant stage, also for later operation and maintenance purposes, but in addition it is important that values are re-established in the community. Today, several municipalities have introduced property taxes that provide income to municipalities, among other things. other from wind turbines, but not all municipalities wish to introduce this type of local tax. Furthermore, several actors have concluded compensation agreements with their host municipalities on a voluntary basis. This is probably perceived to be unforeseeable by several of the host municipalities, including the builders. We have had several meetings with the host municipalities in question that call for a greater predictability of income, and a greater profitability, with regard to putting their natural resources at the disposal. In order to encourage municipalities to take a positive stand for the development of wind power, we in the Right are promoting this proposal for a representative together with our good colleagues from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the proposal, we ask the government to set up a sample to assess how the fiscal and concessional framework conditions for wind power generation can be designed so that the communities concerned are guaranteed a share of the rent from wind power generation and compensation for local environmental disadvantages. It is important to stress, as we do in the remarks, that it is not our intention to increase the tax burden on the builders, but that we want a better distribution of taxes. Today it is difficult to achieve profitability in some wind power projects. It is likely that the possibility of falling within the scope of the Electric Certificate Scheme is quite crucial. However, it is worth noting, as we also get into our remarks, that there is an ever-increasing development of technology towards increasing the impact at a slightly lower investment cost. This means that profitability can improve in the future, and this should also benefit the host municipalities in question. I record that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre do not want to make these kind of assessments, and I think this is unfortunate for the future wind power deployment in Norway. The Central Party has recently held its national meeting. In the programme for the next enlargement period, they have decided that they want schemes to ensure that municipalities are compensated for by the development of wind power. In view of this, it is extra strange that they choose to vote against our proposal. Then it might be tempting to challenge the Center Party on how they view this compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1907	Yes, in the Central Party we answer the questions that are asked as soon as possible, so I thank the President for the chance to do so now. The commitment to renewable energy has for many years been a major concern of the Centre Party. Here in the country we are rich in natural resources, and we have to put nature to work to create pure energy, jobs and activity. Renewable energy production – as we have said many times before in this room – is one of the most important contributions we can make to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It has always been an important principle for the Centre Party that the use of natural resources should provide local ring-effects. It is the local population who must deal with the changes that occur in nature as a result of energy production or other activity, and therefore it is right and proper that local people should also be allowed to participate in the value creation that is taking place. An example of a regime that is established around this is our hydropower production, where the host municipalities get a significant part of the value creation. This is a type of regime or system that one should also consider in many other areas. The centre party has said something about this in its new pot options program. When we do not support either changes in company taxes or proposals for rent, as the opposition has been involved in the proposal for a representative, it is because it violates a different principle. In the case of corporation tax, the Centre Party has a clear position on it earlier in that period. When it comes to rent, wind power today does not ask for a base rate of which one can get a return, but takes away the whole basis for the wind effort. So it hasn't been relevant for us to go into it. The same thing applies to selection work. We believe it is wrong at this point to start selection work – with the following comprehensive policy treatment – to look at the overall framework conditions of an industry that now has a strong focus on achieving the goals that we in Stortinget have seen through the green certificate market. We believe that the actors would look at the fence if we now announced a change of framework conditions, and thus a lost important and decisive time in relation to the deadline – by 2020 – that has been seen to get production within the scheme of green certificates. This does not mean that no adjustments can be seen to the effect of wind power generation on the municipalities. The municipalities already have a trip to the property tax. Another interesting proposal that has been on the table is to look at a system of natural resource tax for local wind power, as proposed by the regional association of wind power municipalities. Because it is important to realise more of the great potential that we have, and then municipalities and communities must be part of the value creation, which can contribute to further activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1922	We are all in favour of increased wind power generation, and we want to take a greater share of the expansion that will come in the next few years, and then we need to launch more projects, so that it can be realised in Norway. I believe there are two good reasons why more of the resources and revenues are due to the municipalities, and that they will also trigger more projects. The important point is that local taxation will trigger the best projects. Because we know from the debate on wind power development, that some areas are good, and that other areas are not so good. And we know that there is considerable resistance in some areas to development, and ensuring that municipalities are left with more resources will also make it easier to realize the best projects. The second is the principle, on which I would wish the representative Sande would also come into, and although the rent is not there today, one can look at it in principle: the Christian People's Party believes it is important, and right, that a person is compensated for the burden of deterioration in nature, and that resources and revenues fall to the community, as it is with hydropower. The councils have called up a separate field after Castberg, and the Castberg concession laws are well known. This was also the starting point of the debate that Stortingen had 100 years ago, where a firm right of return was established and where one also realised that municipalities and communities would have significant incomes. So we think it's exciting to have an investigation, to be able to look at the possibilities and clarify that this won't increase the overall level of taxation. It will not increase the burden on the builders, nor will it threaten any projects, as we clearly underline in the comments. But you'll get a redistribution from state to municipality, and you can, for example, make it possible for this natural resource tax to be deducted from the State tax. In this sense, it does not mean any more increased taxes in total, but that more of the resources belong to the communities, which in turn will trigger the best projects, and one meets the principle that a desire for more tax to be applied to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1935	Today, there is a cross-political consensus that wind power needs to be developed in Norway. The left is impatient to use these valuable, eternal natural resources. It will be an important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, we believe it is important that our business and research institutions can have their rightful place in the new green low-carbon society to which the industrialized world now has to change. It is then urgent to establish a domestic market for wind power generation. In order to achieve this, the Left considers that the host municipalities for wind power must have a legitimate share of the profits when they make their natural capital available for power generation. In addition to good support schemes, the support and legitimacy of wind power generation in the communities concerned must be ensured. Today, wind power municipalities are not guaranteed a share of the value creation for which their wind resources form the basis. Norway has a 100-year hydropower regime, with different schemes to protect the interests of the communities concerned. As the representative Sande, the Left also believes that wind power expansion has many parallels to hydroelectric development. You take advantage of the eternal energy resources in the form of water that runs and wind that blows. Resources must be used where they are located. Unlike fossil fuels, the environmental problems of wind power and hydropower are local. There is no release into the atmosphere, but renewable energy sources involve degraded areas and landscape interventions and can interfere with animal and bird life. Natural resource taxes on hydropower plants were designed in 1996 and a broad political majority supported the scheme. The left believes that the principle argument The Size provided the basis for the imposition of natural resource tax on hydropower 12 years ago, which is highly transferable to wind power. It is unreasonable for local natural capital to be placed at the disposal of power producers without compensation to the community concerned. At the same time, the Left believes that it is also important that tax systems do not make wind power unprofitable. An increased tax burden in the current situation will be a new obstacle to the development of wind power, and the Left therefore believes that the design of the natural resource tax in hydropower is ideal. The left considers that a similar system for the wind power sector must be designed with the necessary adaptations. As long as the tax is designed in such a way as not to result in increased expenditure on the builder, such a scheme should not prevent more wind power. On the contrary, the builder will be met by a more benevolent local environment, thus reducing a significant obstacle to wind power generation today. Municipalities will receive a long-term and stable income – as a statutory right and not subject to negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1950	This is a very original proposal. An overall opposition is now going to attack the government to put in place more wind power in Norway, and the means to get it in place is to increase the tax. First of all, this is interesting. Secondly, it is about rent taxes on land. Indeed, the definition of land interest tax is a tax on an additional return. Wind power is something that we, as we know, have to subsidize if we're going to get it in place, and it's quite substantial subsidies. We are now struggling to put in place sufficient wind power deployment in Norway due to low profitability. So, of course, there's no rent on the ground, and then it might be even more strange that you're talking about taxing this possible rent on the ground. Thirdly, it is no new phenomenon that natural resources are not taxed with rent in Norway; it is the rule rather than the exception. We have two-thing rents in Norway, and it's on hydropower and on oil and gas activity – then to tax what's a significant extra return and make sure that the values come to the attention of Norwegian society. To understand the reality, this is necessary in order to get more municipalities to say yes: well, I do not feel that municipalities around Norway are plugging in the system in order to put in place an increased wind power development in Norway. There are many legal concessions. Last year we gave concession to Bjerkrim, big concessions south of Rogaland, and these aren't realized. It is not because the municipalities have said no, but simply because those with the concessions by date have not been able to make the investment decision. I hope and believe that before the decision to roll out, I will be able to give new major concessions to Norwegian wind power development and thus provide opportunities for the realisation of a development that we all want, but the challenge is not a lack of tax; the challenge is a lack of profitability. Then you talk about redistribution. In principle, if you want a redistribution from state to municipality, you have to make a short cut in the corporate tax system, and I have not felt that there is a great deal of connection to it in this room. Rather, it has underlined the importance of maintaining fiscal reform, with a broad tax base and a level playing field. So it's close to thinking that this is populism of the best variety in good time before a big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1967	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1971	A reader in today's industry that there are very big distortions between adopted Swedish and Norwegian wind power production after the green certificates with Sweden were implemented from 1 January 2012. It also referred to the Council of State. My question is: is it possible for the Council of State to take action to bring up a significantly larger wind power generation on the Norwegian side to smooth that imbalance? It turns out from the article in Today's Business that there could be billions of money with which we had to subsidize Swedish developers. Can we take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1978	As the picture now looks, there is a slightly larger expansion of wind power in Sweden, but the larger the expansion of hydropower in Norway. The system, the Treaty, the agreement is designed in such a way as not to play a major role by definition in the development of Norway or Sweden. They will come where they are the cheapest, where they pay the most, and where our single electricity market benefits as much as possible from the investments made, so that prices are also kept as low as possible. I think that makes sense. It is totally inappropriate for me and the government to start some kind of grant competition with Sweden to further support wind power to get it here. We need good, steady framework conditions in Norway. They have been clarified by the green certificates. The most important thing we can do now is give good concessions where there's a lot of wind blowing, and where the infrastructure costs are low.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1985	The Council of State said about rent on the ground that it was of course only necessary to obtain a profit on wind power production before anything could be distributed. What the proposers want to do is to make the rules so that if there is a profit, it is allocated to the host municipality, etc. Is it reasonable to believe that the government and the Council of State think that someday these windmills will generate profits – or is it such that when subsidies are over, production is also over? It can't be like that, you have to believe that it eventually generates profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1990	There are no plans to extend the Norwegian support system beyond 2020, which we have all agreed on in this room. It's also that hopefully this will pay off in the future. But in order to clean up the concept, it's that rent by definition is a state tax. There is no rent in any case due to municipalities. When Norwegian hydropower plants and Norwegian oil companies pay the basic interest tax, the beneficiary is a little further up in Akersgata. I have not registered any intense wish, either from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party or the Left, to ensure that this addressee will change from the Ministry of Finance to 430 Norwegian municipalities. I'm going to add that I think the most important thing we can do now to trigger wind power is ring about stability and predictability. I think that proposals like this, even if you say that the intention is good, will seem the opposite. The threats of increased taxation will be less widespread.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e1999	I understand that the Council of State needs to characterise the proposal as populist, in order to address something that will increase the ability of local communities to generate income based on their natural resources, is hardly good central party policy. The challenge is – as the Council of State says – profitability, because many concessions have been granted that have not yet been realised. But it is also a challenge for several municipalities to be negative about concession requests. The asset is not increased tax; the instrument is to look at a redistribution of taxes. This isn't just talking about rent, it's talking about the whole picture. My question and my challenge to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to make it more attractive for Norwegian communities to put their nature at the disposal of wind power?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2008	Let me start by saying that I don't see the problem as a big problem. Norwegian municipalities are capable of putting their areas at their disposal, because they feel that this means investment, power generation, as you need, and activity. Nor does this value creation benefit the community. You have property taxes, and there it will be that if the value of the wind turbines goes up, the property tax will also go up. So it's followed. In some respects, there are also development agreements between builders and municipalities to ensure that local communities receive a fair share of the value creation in this field, as in all other fields. I believe that the most important thing I can do is to make sure that there are now several concessions that can be cleared out in a larger market, and that more builders will look at Norway as an attractive and good society to expand. I have very, very difficult to imagine that the answer to getting more involved lies in uncertainty about framework conditions and more tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2017	I disagree with the Council of State that local taxation or that more should be done to the municipalities, insofar as it will not contribute to more of the best areas being put at the disposal. Where today there is a lot of discussion and resistance locally, I think it would make it easier to get projects through. But the Council of State says that the plug is profitable. It's a challenge. As I see it, Norway has good assumptions given that it is probably blowing as much in Norway as in Sweden. However, there are challenges both in corporate taxes and in depreciation rules – there are two challenges where we may be a little higher in Norway than in Sweden. My question is really just – since the Council of State is voting against our proposal to look at some possibility of local taxation – whether he has other proposals to improve profitability, or is he insisting that the plan that exists now be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2026	With respect to reporting, I feel like there's some kind of circular argument here. The starting point for the debate is that new taxes will be introduced for the wind power industry, and this will result in a reduction in wind power deployment in Norway and more unforeseeable framework conditions. I believe that Norwegian municipalities are doing a real job related to the assessments in wind power. Large areas are put at the disposal. That's not the problem. Then you should not underestimate that there are sometimes actually good reasons to say no. There are good reasons to say no to wind power development, and if the representative proposed by Ropstad is that we should only give them even more money so that they stop saying no, it will be an approach to politics that I will skeptically submit to. Norwegian municipalities will participate in the value creation of wind as a result of any increase in the value of wind power, in terms of the tax possibilities already available, mainly property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2035	As I said in my post and in my line, I think on the contrary that a local tax will actually lead to the best areas being set at the disposal. I absolutely share the view of the Council of State that there are not all places where it should be built. Therefore, I am interested in getting the most projects to choose from, and being able to choose the best projects. I record that the Council of State does not answer my question. I guess that just means that he's betting that there's enough projects being realized, even though he himself says that profitability – and as far as I see the prospects ahead, I don't think profitability is getting much better – is too bad. Is that right, and will he just sit and look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2042	It was Roppstad's word that profitability is going to remain poor for a long time to come, and that the answer is therefore ground interest tax. My response has been stable framework conditions, predictability, no changes in the tax system and a predictable concession treatment that ensures that a sufficient number of concessions are available in sufficient time to enable us to put in place the desired development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2047	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2051	When you talk about the local government sector and income, I needed to draw, because there's something that interests me a lot. I can also inform the council if there are no longer 430 municipalities in Norway, but a few fewer since he joined the municipal committee. There are also mistakes that the Council of State said the intention here is to increase taxation. It's about a redistribution between the municipality and the state, where it gets smaller to the state and more to the municipality. There's something completely different than treasure. And I don't think it's right to refer to this as populism of the best kind. Local politicians who are concerned about this have largely decided which party to vote for in the fall. I don't think this is something that will affect the outcome of the big shot. What's important here is that one has a fairly similar principle between different natural resources in Norway. The local government doesn't think it is. We have two types of municipalities that have clearly more income than other municipalities. It's those who have large landing facilities attached to oil and gas, and who have property taxes on them, and it's the water power municipalities that have been mentioned. Then we have other types of natural resources for some municipalities that have wind power and farming facilities that they have set aside. They have significantly less income. It's the crooked relationship that I perceive that the proposers want one to sit down and look at, so that one can have a similar principle. I'm not going to talk to my sick mother here, because the municipality of Austevoll chose a few years ago to say no to wind power from a total assessment where a greater emphasis on environment and landscape than income from the municipal register. The neighboring municipality in the south, Fitjar, made a different choice. If you look at Fitjar, they've got 44 windmills in the last year and have revenues from them of 8.5 million. kr in the year in the form of property tax. It's pretty little compared to the natural interventions that were done in the Fitjar Mountains. They've put a lot of space into it to produce environmentally friendly energy, and they're going to get 8.5 million. kr per year in compensation or in property tax revenue. A few miles further into the state of the Modal, which has a different type of natural resource, i.e. water power, can be read in the Annual Report to the Municipality of Modale that they collect 47.6 pst. of its revenue in the 2012 accounts from concession taxes, natural resource taxes and property taxes. There is more in revenue from the three than from the frame bill from the state. That's what makes municipalities that are rich on other resources, like Fitjar on wind and land for wind power, feel that they should get a greater share of the value creation when you look at how much more water power they get. I don't want to take anything from the water-power communities, but I want to look at a regime that can be more similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2066	I found that the debate and the exchange of lines have shown that this is at best a very poorly elaborated proposal because the various proposers have quite different access ports to how to read it. Once again, when the representative Robstad draws up the rent on the land and the principle of the rent on the land as the main principle in this regard, it is quite right for the Council of State to say that if a charge were to be imposed on this a rent tax on the land, it would go to the State and not to the communities concerned. It's not the Center Party's intention. Then one had to be far more focused and talk about a natural resource tax or something like that. At least I'll be willing to discuss it, but someone more strongly collect taxes on this industry thinks I'm out of time, and it's unwise to start a discussion about rent taxes. Also, it is not correct that the Progress Party and the representative Skumsvoll say that now the opposition agrees to ensure the municipalities a better outcome, and a system for it. That's not what's in this proposal. The only thing that's agreed is to ask the government to put down a selection to look at the problem. It's something quite different. It will have the consequence that the actors will sit on the fence, as I said in my introduction. A final cross-section is that these four opposition parties also have different input into the current tax allocation used to secure municipal income. When the representative Njåstad refers to Fitjar and the millions that despite all Fitjar get in because of wind power, it is a property tax that the Progress Party is not in favour of. There must be a cross-section of thought because a comprehensive system will provide reduced revenues for both Fitjar and other wind power municipalities and water power municipalities that are currently actively using the property tax on works and use to generate income.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2077	It would have been an advantage if the Council of State had actually read the position before taking the floor with it – what to say – a bold attitude towards the proposals made by the proposers. It says: ‘These members will underline the importance that this legislation does not impose an increased financial burden on the builders of wind power.’ How the Council of States can then stand on this platform and claim that the intention of the proposal is to increase the tax on wind power, is incomprehensible to me. Then it is quite right that the Council of State points out – I will give him – that there is no rent on wind today, so there should have been another word there, natural resource tax or other. But the purpose of this proposal is to see if you can have some incentives for municipalities to facilitate local value creation. In the Right, we believe that you should have it anyway, by the fact that a large part of the corporate tax can be applied to the municipalities, as it did before. Then also the need for property tax will not be so strong. It must be worthwhile to put areas at the disposal in order to create jobs locally. In the case of wind power, it should also do so. All we've asked is for a sample to be set up to look at this problem. Is there anything we can do to make it more attractive? Then the Council of State is absolutely right that this will not help to build a lot of wind power in Norway, because the challenge is not how to distribute tax revenues. The challenge is that there are no tax revenues to distribute very many places, because it is not profitable to expand as much wind power in Norway at as low a power price as we now have, unfortunately. That's where the challenge lies. Then we have to look at how we are going to apply the force that we are now being given through the green certificates, for example. by increasing exchange capacity with the rest of the world, e.g. by phasing out fossil energy and replacing it with renewable energy, where appropriate, and e.g. by facilitating environmentally friendly energy production so that it becomes profitable to produce new renewable energy, so that we can use this resource and put it into use, as the representative Sande also pointed out. Then there are many things that have to be done. It's not just about price. It is also about speeding up the development of networks, both domestic and inter-national, with other countries. There we see that the level of ambition below this Council of States is more than halved compared to the level of ambition below the previous Council of States, which was from the same party. So here's a lot to deal with. A good place to start is at least to read the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2091	Taking the word after the representative Astrup in this case is almost like jumping after Wirkola, for what he said, I very much agree. It is clear that when the representative Sande says that it is a poorly elaborated proposal, I would like to know what he means by that. The proposal is to set up an expert committee. Experts are people who have a handle on this. They shall sit together once or five times or ten times and try to arrive at a system that will give the host municipalities some cake. I am aware that today windmill production must be subsidized. But – as I said when I had a line – after the subsidies are over, you have to think that once you can get to the point where you can make money. Then there must be a system. It is probably wrong to call the rent, but there must be a subsidy that makes it more reasonable to believe that municipalities will accept wind farms. In my part of the world, in West Agder, there are three municipalities that have questions about windmills. All three are going to go against it. It is not right, as the Council of State says, that many municipalities are happy to accept this – at least not across the whole country. We don't like property taxes in the Progress Party, but we like to have money in the municipal fund, so sometimes one actually has to go on chords and introduce it into the municipalities that are governed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2102	I simply thought that I would come with the fasit, for the facts have the power, and read aloud from the setting: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be drawn up to determine how the fiscal and concessional framework conditions for wind power generation can be designed in such a way that the communities concerned are guaranteed a share of the rent from wind power generation and compensation for local environmental disadvantages.’ So Astrup says two things that confuse me. One is that it should not have been said "the ground rate". So he admits that the setting might not be as accurate and good as it should have been. Is it true that we should delete the 'ground rate' and pretend it's not there, or is it so that it's what it says, and that's what you're suggesting? It seems a little unclear after the representative, Astrup, said. So he said something else interesting, and it was that the intention was not to facilitate more the development of wind power around Norway, because he agreed with my analysis that there is a lack of profitability that is the plug in the system and the main challenge. That's good. At least we'll agree on that. However, when one hears the debate and follows what is said from this speaker, one of the proposers after another says that this is important to put in place to give increased incentives to municipalities to approve this, so that more wind power can be put in place. Then, at best, it's a reasoning that's not shared by the Right, and you don't agree with the very prerequisite for why you're promoting this proposal. What you're left with, according to Astrup, is really a proposal that's about distributing tax revenue between the municipality and the state, and that's really what we're discussing. Well, if that's what we're going to discuss, my clear advice is that there are clearly more precise wordings to come up with that issue than what has been promoted in this proposal. This is impossible to read in this proposal. This is about rent and compensation for local environmental disadvantages, not about distribution between country and municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2114	Unlike the Council of State, I'd like to admit it when I'm wrong. It is that this proposal could have been formulated more precisely. It's quite obvious. It could be, for example, stood ‘a share of the value added’ instead of ‘a share of the rent’. But that doesn't change the fact that we want it to pay off for municipalities to facilitate value creation, including wind power generation. So the council says that I agree with his analysis that it's the profitability that's the challenge. Yes, profitability is the challenge. But as the representative Skumsvoll had in mind, the ambition is that we should have a technology development in this area that makes the wind power industry stand without subsidies, and that it will be a value creation that comes to the long term distribution. When that value creation comes to distribution, it should pay off for the municipalities to facilitate it. Therefore, on a general basis, Right considers that municipalities should retain a higher proportion of corporate tax than they do today, because it is not profitable today to facilitate that value creation. I don't think the Council of State and I'm so disagreed about that particular aspect. What is positive about the green certificates is that it is a technology-neutral support system that allows us to generate new renewable energy, but politicians do not pick the winners. Nevertheless, it is a fact that Norway has among the best wind resources in Europe. I think we have a common ambition in this room to use our natural resources in such a way that it creates values for Norwegian society, and that makes us take care of the environment. So that's a potential that I hope we'll be able to exploit in the long term, but it'll require technological development. The green certificates are in many ways a heart-starter – or a pacemaker, as some might say – that hopefully will make this industry on its own and that it will be a valuable asset to distribute in the long term. Who knows — perhaps in the long term it will also be a base rate that will come to distribution. If we have then had an expert selection that has looked at how the value creation can be distributed in such a way that it pays to facilitate wind power generation, I think it would be an advantage. It's a shame not also the government parties see the value in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2123	I asked for the floor because, in fact, I think this is somewhat pathetic – in particular, that the representatives of the Central Party, the Council of State and the representative Sande, almost want to misunderstand the intentions of this proposal. I understand that it would be a bitter pill to swallow if you would vote with us for this proposal. It's because stimulating the community to make its natural resources available and that they're to be compensated for it, we think it's good policy. I would assume that the Central Party is also a good policy. However, not being able to vote in favour of the proposal should not mean that one deliberately misunderstands what is the intention of this proposal, namely, to more equalise, as the representative of Austevoll in the past had, the municipalities of hydropower and wind power, which both exploit a natural resource. Both shall have a share of that value added back. The proposal is intended as an open proposal to set up an expert committee to look at how this can be done. I had hoped that, among other things, The centre party was able to support the intention of this proposal, precisely because the Centre Party’s next programming period expressed such a clear desire that local communities could have a greater share of the value creation related to wind power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2128	And then the debate goes on and on and on and on. Next speaker is State Council Ola Borten Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2131	I could choose to continue where I left off, and say that the difference between wind power and hydropower is that one pays off and the other does not pay off – that is why it is possible to tax one thing and not the other. However, the kind of theoretical considerations about whether or not to tax, I'm not going to spend time now on the pulpit. But I was going to say that if you add the goodwill, I think there's a broad consensus on the intentions of what you want to do in the future for Norway. I think we all have a broad desire to achieve more wind power, and that more wind turbines will be built in Norway in the period up to 2020. I think the best answer we can give to the players in this market is stable and predictable framework conditions, and access to permits and concessions in the best places in good time before the certificate market expires in 2020, so that this kind of realization is possible and feasible. As I said, the government and I hope to be able to give new major concessions before the election. So I think we have a common desire that the municipalities have a fair share of the value creation. It's an important principle for the Center Party, and it's a principle that many parties share. I experience a very strong desire for activity, development, investment and value creation around the Norwegian municipalities. I'm also of the opinion that we have an incentive structure that works. In this case, property taxes or development contracts apply. If it were to be a significant increase in profitability, which I hope it does, it will also be reflected in the value of the installations. Consequently, there will be a broader and larger tax base and a larger value creation, which will benefit Norwegian municipal bodies. That's very good. So Astrup said something very interesting. He asked questions as to whether the green certificates were a heartbreaker or a pacemaker. I think that's a debate that hasn't ended yet, but intuitively, I hope that this will be a heart-starter, and something that can help these energy carriers become profitable by themselves in some way. I would like to end by saying – also to the representative of Astrup – that it should be that things are going so well, and that wind power production in Norway actually carries a rent, I have such confidence in the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance that I believe that this type of proposal will appear immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2148	As the rapporteur, I had an article, and then I shut up. The discussion has gone far beyond what this matter really deserves, and I just want to conclude by summing up. There is a consensus that it will pay off for the municipalities to get wind power. That's not where the shoe prints today. It pays off for the municipalities, the problem is that it does not pay off for the wind power producers. The government may associate itself with expertise at any time. It doesn't need, as the representative Skumsvoll suggested, any big decision to get to it. If this is a picture that changes significantly in the future, I fully agree with the Council of State that tax returns belong to the Ministry of Finance and the State budget, and then a certain one will certainly consider some changes. The problem is that the opposition has made a proposal where you don't really know what you want, and almost invited to a seminar on what can be done to get tax to the municipalities. The time is simply not in order to have a seminar on this. There should now be stable conditions that allow maximum wind power to be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2161	The representative Erling Sande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2165	There is a need for an explanation of vote after Siri Meling's somewhat broken posts. When the Central Party votes against the opposition proposal today, it is not because we do not grant host municipalities and local communities the ringing effects of both wind power and other activity. This is simply because one, as has also been pointed out by several, mixes rent and rent taxes. It's because one in the intention behind the proposal – if one reads the whole document from the opposition – mixes corporate tax, as one knows there's significant political insomnia around, and premises that one can't go into from our side. It's not least because this is not the time to put down a selection and start a major political work on the framework conditions of an industry that now has a short time window towards a green certification system, where we've seen a date, 2020, that they have to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2170	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2173	The representative of Egeland says it pays off for the municipalities. No, I would definitely say that when you see the interventions, it doesn't pay off to the municipalities. The representative Sande says that the proposers do not know what they think. Well, we know incredibly well what we mean. It's that we're going to get a sample of these so-called experts, who are going to look at the whole system around wind power generation, and see if you can compare it to hydropower generation, because there's two sides of the same thing: what comes in the air, and what comes in the ground – wind and water. For the municipalities it is reasonable to assume that something can be done here – that's all. It's not that we're going to change the Constitution, but maybe we're going to make a proposal that might be something to discuss further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2182	The representative Nikolai Astrup has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2185	I regret taking the floor so often, but I was so inspired when I heard the agricultural debate earlier today, there were so many who were in need of speech. The representative Sande said this is not the time to bring down such a sample. I believe that this is just the time to put down such a sample. Now the industry has seven years to close the window for green certificates, and then they get support for 15 years after that. Then it's important to start now thinking about how to organise that municipalities can be left with a share of the value creation in the post-2020 period, just to create incentives for municipalities to facilitate that type of business, even when the green certificates are no longer an aid to producers. It's a fact today that there's a lot of local resistance to many wind power projects, and I think economic incentives will be a contribution to the municipalities' being more positive in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2192	The comment of the representative Henning Skumsvoll was interesting, because he says that when you look at the interventions it is not worth paying for the municipalities. Now there are projects and plans for the development of wind power that may be as much as ten times as what is going to be realized. Many of these projects are going to be rejected because they have too much impact on natural diversity. They shall then be rejected for reasons and shall not be compensated for by the fact that the municipalities may receive more tax revenue. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2197	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2211	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2220	It is an overall committee that underlines the importance of preserving cultural memories in Norway, for the benefit of the community and future generations. Cultural memories are important sources of knowledge and experience and a link between epochs that have great value for society and great importance for our identity, well-being and self-understanding. At the same time, cultural memories are under pressure from several teams. Population growth, centralisation and urbanisation, climate change and society’s need for new infrastructure contribute to this. It makes it extra important to have a thoughtful and comprehensive strategy to preserve and renovate important cultural memories. There is little doubt that private owners and non-governmental organisations are doing a significant part of the job of preserving cultural memories. Very many cultural memories are privately owned, and very many cultural memories that are not privately owned have great pleasure in volunteering and involvement in the community. Good cooperation between public authorities, non-governmental organisations and private owners is therefore the main guarantee that cultural heritage will continue to be preserved in the future. The public has a special responsibility to facilitate this cooperation, through close dialogue and long-term, good and motivating framework conditions, and with respect for the independence and peculiarity of the volunteer. The Committee considers that the public should facilitate new areas of use and activity for cultural memories. Use is often the best protection. At the same time, new forms of use can facilitate value creation and job creation and help to keep old craft traditions in check. The small protective craftsmanship needs to be strengthened, and this will enable us to guarantee the necessary skills to safeguard our common cultural heritage. In municipalities too, it is important that adequate competences are available on cultural memory protection, so that important cultural memories can be preserved and further developed, to the delight of local communities and visitors. Many cultural memories represent great values that we have to take care of for generations to come. However, the value of protection is not the same for all cultural memories, and the extent of protection must be weighed against both the value of protection and economic considerations. In St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, Life with cultural memories, identified three national objectives for cultural memory policy. These include: the objective of ensuring a level of peace and protection of cultural memories and normal maintenance by 2020, and that cultural memory loss should not exceed 0,5 pst. annual by 2020. In order to follow up these objectives, two years later, the Stortinget decided that ten conservation programmes should be established. Some of the conservation programmes have had good results, including: 21 of our 28 stave churches have been restored. At the same time, much remains to be done before the 2020 targets are met. The challenge for the ten programmes is different, but there is an ongoing lack of craft skills and financial resources to complete the programmes. The National Audit Office’s administrative audit in 2008-2009 concluded that key assumptions for achieving the 2020 targets are not in place. To the right, this Communication does not consider that there are any significant new instruments that will help achieve the objectives set by the Storting. In particular, it is for private owners of cultural memories that new targeted measures are necessary to help increase motivation and the financial capacity to maintain important cultural values on behalf of the community. Therefore, the right proposes that tax deductions be introduced for maintenance costs in the case of saved buildings and that preserved buildings be exempted from municipal property tax. These are simple and unbureaucratic instruments that will significantly remedy the situation for private owners. It is also essential that the peace process itself be improved. It is necessary to set deadlines for safeguard measures and provisions ensuring early and effective participation and influence by owners in peace processes. The right also considers that requirements should be introduced to investigate the administrative and economic consequences of rescue proposals and to offer follow-up to owners. If the value in use is reduced as a result of conservation, the owners should be compensated for this. In the right-hand view, a model for the prioritisation and financing of archaeological excavations that improves the distribution and financial burden of such excavations should also be investigated. When the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund was established in 2002, it was in order to ensure predictability and long-term financing in the cultural memory field and to find good ways of connecting public and private capital. So far, the fund has been a success because government grants have contributed to trigger substantial financing from private owners and businesses. Unfortunately, the Cultural Memory Fund was wound up as a fund in 2012. In order to ensure predictable access to capital, therefore, the Right proposes that the fund be restored and that the return is set at 4 pst., equal to the return of the State pension fund abroad. If we are to achieve the cultural memories in 2020, the fund capital must be strengthened in the coming years. I bring up the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 3 from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2239	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2242	Cultural memory is a part of our cultural heritage and history, an heritage and a history that strengthens our identity, which gives us a reference and a basis in encounter with antiquity, future and other peoples and cultures. We meet others with greater respect and understanding if we are safe on our own identity and culture. Cultural memory gives us experiences and can be very good attractions and thus contribute to value creation. Therefore, a representative selection of cultural memories, such as stave churches and other buildings, ruins, archaeological cultural memory, cultural environment and technical and industrial cultural memory, should be taken into account. The 2005 Culture Memory Report, Life with Cultural Memory, drew up a programme for ten different cultural memory areas with clear objectives towards 2020. The message we are discussing now shows that a lot has been done, but there are also clear challenges in some areas. More skills are needed, not least craft knowledge and capacity and, of course, economic resources. Our good tools are the national antiquities and county councils, but the municipalities with spatial planning responsibility need advice and help. The National Audit Office has pointed out that many municipalities have insufficient competence to care for their tasks when it comes to cultural memory management. It is therefore very good that the Ministry of the Environment and the National Antiquities have set up the project ‘Knowledgelift for cultural memory management’ and other measures to enhance competence. Governmental permissions to cultural memory work have increased by over 12 pst. the last year. All in all, we're now spending over 570 million. kr in the field of cultural memory and environment. Still need e.g. private owners of cultural memory better economic stimulus in the challenges they face in caring for protected and peaceful buildings. The opposition here proposes tax exemptions and exemptions from the property tax. I mean, it's a lot better with rebounds. Tax deductions are mostly for those who think much, but less for those who think little, and are therefore unsocial. We're not going to use tax deductions for all good purposes, but rather to have a broad tax base and use the money where we think is right at any given time. If we want to spend more on cultural memory protection, we need to give priority to that and allow the money over the state budget, openly and truly. It has appeared during the message's calls that the back-up system is bureaucratic, heavy-duty and inefficient. If this is the case, it must be made simpler and more efficient. Therefore, a review of the scheme is required. A good cultural memory policy must aim to make use of cultural memory as much as possible. Often, use is the best protection, and it also motivates protection in a good way. New forms of use can facilitate value creation and job creation. Renovation and maintenance of cultural memory can also contribute to local value creation. Here it's a great potential. For example, in my own municipality we have a garden, in Hundorp, Dale-Gudbrand's garden, which has been given a very central location in the Christian saga, dramatized by Snorre Sturlason, at the same time as this is unique foresight. This combination could make room for a very attractive destination and a place of experience and training if one could get some more state-owned means of support to facilitate that very thing, means that would then contribute to the very much needed value creation in the towns. If we want to take care of our cultural memories never so much, we still have to constantly consider the level of protection. There must be consistency between what we will use of resources to preserve cultural memories and the extent of peace and protection. The conflict occurs in particular when it does not harm. It's also important that we protect a representative selection and not everything. We can register, photograph and archive many things, but we also need to build housing, business buildings and not least infrastructure in the country. Therefore, some times some cultural memory will have to give up. Finally, I think that the cultural message shows that a great deal of effort is being made to preserve cultural memories and at the same time what will be action in the future to achieve our goals. Not least, it reminds us of how important cultural memory management is in a changing society, and how cultural historical values can and should be resources and common good in a long-term, resilient development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2265	Today, Stortinget deals with a very important document, namely Report. St. 35 for 2012–2013, Future with a foothold, Culture Memory Policy. We politicians probably spend a lot less time on cultural memory policy than we do on other tasks in the Energy and Environment Committee. In an article in the Evening Post on 13 November 2012 on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the National Antiquities Institute, riksantikvar Jørn Holme is quoted as follows: 'Unfortunately, many local politicians and rapporteurs continue to see cultural memory as a pillage and a staple'. I think that the nationalist product could have assigned many of us big-time politicians to have the same assessment of cultural memory protection – unfortunately. Cultural memories are an important source of knowledge and experiences and are a link between epochs, which have great value for society. Cultural memories have a self-esteem, but also represent environmental, cultural, social and economic values that affect people's identity and self-understanding. The Progress Party considers it important that public Norway pursues a policy that preserves cultural memories in the country, for the benefit of the community and future generations. Cultural memories tell of the evolution of society up to the present day. Historical buildings, urban environments, archaeological traces and landscapes are cultural memories. Cultural memories are linked to the past and place people in a larger context. Cultural memories from other cultures also make it easier to understand the multicultural culture that is becoming increasingly common in Norway today. The Progress Party believes that the Norwegian cultural heritage represents great values both on land and on water. The Progress Party believes that the chances of taking care of a wide range of cultural memories are greater if they are in active use and fulfil a function. The Progress Party is positive in protecting our common history, but it is necessary to be selective so that the cultural memories to be protected can also be protected within the economic framework available. The national objectives of cultural memory policy, which were clarified in the discussion of St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, it has not been possible to implement it. This also concluded with the Riksrevision following an administrative review of St.meld. No 16, ‘Life with cultural memories’. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party point out that the economic incentives to take care of peaceful buildings need to be improved. The same parties propose that the owners of rescued buildings should receive tax deductions from restoration costs and exemptions from municipal property tax. Only then can you be sure that the rescued buildings are maintained. In the 2013 alternative budget of the Progress Party, we proposed to extend the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations to culture and research as well as to increase the ceiling to DKK 100000. Another area of major conflicts is who will take financial responsibility for archaeological excavations when required by private property. The Progress Party has its own proposal: ‘The government is asking the government to file a case for the State to assume financial responsibility for archaeological excavations when required by private property.’ I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2299	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2302	We don't take care of cultural memories because it's so nice with something old. Cultural memory protection is important to tell the story of us, a story that is necessary to understand both the present and the future. It's the story of us, whether we're from the countryside or the city, have a background in agriculture, fishing or industry, whether we've belonged to the upper class with their magnificent buildings or the working class in the housekeepers' places and in small living rooms. We need to preserve a representative selection of cultural memories, not least cultural memories related to our Sami indigenous people, our national minorities and our new minorities – the immigrants. In 2005, the message came to live with cultural memories, which set targets for 2020. The national audit has reviewed these and pointed out that progress has not been good enough. The main effort to achieve the 2020 objectives has been to establish ten conservation programmes. Since its launch in 2007, protective plans have been developed and a large number of peaceful cultural memories and environments have been established. Nevertheless, much remains to be done to achieve the 2020 targets. There is a clear need for increased economic effort, and the Committee agrees with this. Voluntary organisations are making great efforts in the field of cultural memory. They're not just for the absolutely necessary commitment, but they're also too much professional knowledge in many areas where there's not so much knowledge. At the hearing, a funny thing was pointed out, we believe, that there is no money for rolling cultural memories – the oldest cars – that many people have a great commitment to. We get the strange situation that what is set up to protect the car – the garage – becomes protective and can receive subsidies, but not the car. It is an unfairness that the Ministry of the Environment and the National Antiquities should look at when, otherwise, it has become an embellishment in what money can be allocated from the Cultural Memory Fund. As far as world heritage is concerned, the announcement states that the government is not planning new nominations. At the same time, the new world heritage policy calls for Sami. From Sametinget it has been pointed out that Mortensnes, which is the largest burial site in Europe, can be part of a Sami World Heritage Site, which also covers wild reindeer hunting. The Committee points out that the nomination of Mortensnes should not be stopped on the grounds that no nominations have been planned otherwise. The opposition is promoting four proposals that I would like to comment on. The first is that they propose tax deductions. We're used to that. After all, it is now promoting tax deductions for all purposes except the union quota. In general, we are trailers of a broad tax base with few tax gaps and a low tax rate. In addition, in the case of maintenance of preserved buildings, we believe that this will lead to a major red tape, since the deduction should not go to standard lifting, but only to maintenance. In addition, tax deductions are an advantage that benefits those who have good income and high taxes. Many owners of peaceful buildings will have no advantage whatsoever from a tax deduction. It is therefore more appropriate to invest in grants to cover the additional costs of caring for a peaceful building. The opposition also promotes a proposal for the restoration of the Cultural Memory Fund, a fund that was wound up in 2013 and replaced by a grant. According to the Director of the Cultural Memory Fund, the result was six million dollars. kr more for the purpose of the Culture Memory Fund. The Progress Party proposes that the State should take responsibility for archaeological excavations, and the Right and Christian People's Party proposes in a slightly cryptic wording that the government should assess a model that provides a better balance between the decision on excavation and costs and its financing. That's exactly what the problem is. There may be many conditions associated with the exploitation of an empty, one of them may be the need for archaeological excavations. The state has hardly unlimited economy to dig all sorts of places where there may be ancient memories. There will then be a need for a priority. I think that many builders would rather expect to take the costs of empty seas than stand in a state queue. I find it difficult to imagine that an E18 extension or construction of a warehouse for IKEA will be exposed for ten years because they will be in line for the prioritisation of a state archaeological excavation. For smaller private enterprises, aid schemes already exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2323	Cultural memory tells the story of Norway. They teach us what was, knowledge of the notes and give us root fast into the future. Then it gives us knowledge of a national identity in meeting with others. We have a responsibility to preserve cultural memories just to tell the story of Norway to new generations. Difor is cultural memory policy important. Through promises, recommendations, and demands, we constantly try to find the right balance that makes us take care of the most important and valuable of our cultural memories at all times. We'll never be able to take care of everything. Nor are we going to, but we have to take care of enough to give those who come after us an insight into how we and the generations that were before us lived – just to learn history about Norway. The central party's policy line that resilient use is often the best protection, fits well – not least in cultural memory policy. Through the use of cultural memories, we ensure value creation and maintenance. The active use of cultural memory allows us to preserve a much larger cultural memory width of the centuries than if passive protection underlies cultural memory policy. We have many good examples of this in our country. Not least, the great element of private ownership of cultural memory is that creativity and the efforts of resilient use are great. There is every reason to take care of the great effort of voluntary organisations and private owners in the preservation of cultural memories. We must establish without any pretence that we would never have had the values we have, the amount we have, and the width we have of cultural memory, if it had not been for the voluntary efforts of the organizations and the owners. We therefore owe them a great thank you – also for having a cultural memory policy that enables them to actively contribute to the continuation of this work. It is from the Central Party's point of view that we need to strengthen the economic incentives to preserve cultural memory – as the message puts it, and ensure that the funds are used efficiently and without unnecessary bureaucracy, and that the funds are readily available to those who want to take care of our cultural heritage. It's about rules and recommendations being designed with those who own cultural memories – and not being printed down their heads. It is about processes such as peace review or other similar registrations respecting people’s private ownership — even inside the houses where people live their lives — and of course this must be done with the necessary respect for privacy and property rights. From the Center Party's side we are pleased with the signals given about a tighter and better dialogue with the private owners. It is also underlined by the Committee, and it is very important that the Ministry follow up on this. Organisations that are friends of cultural memory work make a great effort every year to keep history in Norway. It is important that these also provide a framework for the organisation that facilitates further efforts. Here I would also like to refer to the work of the government on a general basis for the voluntary sector over several years. It focuses on voluntary action. So finally and for its own part: the cultural memory policy is not what this committee has spent most time on in the current period. Some of us have a bad conscience for that. Many heavy issues within the energy and environmental field sometimes lead to cultural memory policy falling slightly between all chairs. I think we have to be open to a discussion about where cultural memory policy is going to be put in collapse and government. The combination of history, dissemination and organisation means that a position by the Ministry of Culture and the Culture Committee could have raised this area even higher on the political agenda. It had at least this field lit up. I myself thought we should health a debate on that welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2354	As far as committee distribution is concerned, I agree with what the representative Sande just said. At least there is a debate that is important to take. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough job in the matter, for good comments and work. The previous cultural memory message, St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005 Living with cultural memories was presented by the Bondevik II Government with the then Minister of Environmental Protection Knut Arild Hareide. When examining the notification, the size set as national performance target no. 1 to minimise the annual loss of cultural and cultural heritage. By 2020 the loss shall not exceed 0,5 pst. annual. According to the Preliminary Memory Association, losses are calculated today at least 1,5 pst. Today, Stortinget is addressing a new cultural memory message called Future with a foot party. The Communication will clarify the challenges that remain for us to meet the targets adopted in the 2005 Storting by 2020. I don't think I'm taking my mouth too full if I say that this message feels a bit like a loop without a jump. It is a message that is good for description and bad for action. This may be why it was promoted so much in overtime — while at the same time over 100 other overtime cases. Since the last notification, the government has removed one of the main instruments of cultural memory policy: the Cultural Memory Fund. That is to say, the cultural memory fund is still in the name, but the fund itself that was supposed to provide funding has been removed. A secure and stable fund solution has been replaced by annual government budget appropriations. The government's explanation is that dividends were low due to falling interest rates. After all, the solution is to set the income of the State pension fund abroad at 4 pst. – not to remove the fund itself. Then the appropriations for cultural memory protection would be doubled. Instead, one will remove the fund that we were set up under the Bondevik II administration. The Riksantikvart has established that transfers to cultural memory protection must increase significantly if the 2005 target is to be achieved. The Christian People's Party agrees. The most pleasant part of this message is therefore not all of the government's descriptions, but the proposals that we in the opposition have put together in the setting. They show which policy everyone concerned with cultural memory protection can expect after the elections if there is a new majority. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are today promoting proposals for the introduction of deductions in taxable profit for the costs of maintaining peaceful buildings outside operations. We will introduce VAT and deduction compensation for the mandatory maintenance of privately owned saved buildings. We also propose to abolish the municipality's access to property taxes on private-owned saved buildings – just as the Riksantikvaren has asked. These are highly targeted measures that will release large amounts of money for the maintenance of peaced cultural memories and bring us closer to the objective of reducing the loss of cultural heritage. I assume that the Left also supports many of the proposals. These three parties also propose restoring the Cultural Memory Fund as a state budget fund for 2014. From our observations, it emerges that we want a predictable return of the fund and thus predictable capital availability for the cultural memory projects. This can be achieved by making the fund's return equal to the SPU's return of 4 pst. This grip will only double the funds available for the maintenance of cultural memories. According to the development network of the Riksantikvaren, two of three municipalities in Norway have not adopted a plan focusing on cultural memories and environments. Many of the plans adopted are of older date. At the same time, we know that many municipalities want cultural memory plans in order to better manage cultural memories in the municipality. With a cultural memory plan, cultural and school settings could use cultural memories to create good experiences. The industry can develop good cultural heritage-based services, and owners and other stakeholders will have greater predictability and scope for assistance and support for use and maintenance. The Christian People's Party believes that municipalities need to be given stronger incentives to develop cultural memory plans. It is therefore appropriate to establish a new grant scheme for the preparation of municipal sub-plans for cultural memories and the cultural environment in Norwegian municipalities. The best way to provide a better and more offensive policy for the preservation of cultural memories is to vote in favour of a new majority in the decision-making process for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2381	Now many here have repeated how important it is to preserve cultural memories, both as part of our history and as a basis for value creation and growth in small local environments and for us as a nation. The National Audit Office has given us clear notice in the Storting that we need more instruments to achieve the ambitious objectives set by former Environment Minister Knut Arild Hareide in the Bondevik II government in this field. It was a very ambitious message that was presented at that time. I think I see the new message a little more as an annual message, saying something about the situation in the field without coming up with new measures or measures to achieve the objectives. We must remember that we are quite lucky in Norway in relation to the challenges facing many other countries. There are not many cultural memories to take care of in Norway compared to many other countries. If you, for example, goes to St. Petersburg, you can see how much of the building mass in the city to be guarded and kept in claim. We complain about having one castle and a couple of other small buildings in the center of Oslo, but there is nothing against what many other nations are facing. Or if you go to Greece, where, for each of your own T-Bahn station in the center, you have created a new museum. And I think, how would it have been in these countries if one had had had such a large part of the privatisation of cultural memory protection expenditure that we have in Norway? That is why the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 3 in the case of archaeological excavations. I didn't quite understand SV's posts, because the problem for many builders today is that for private builders it becomes very expensive, and that you hesitate to do it and to tell them about things. We've all heard stories about big farms where the Viking worlds are well hidden in the basement because you don't want to tell me you found it when you plowed the field. But the big challenge on the other hand is all the big builders who have to wait so long. Time is the critical phase of a large building project when facing archaeological challenges. When you see how low fines you get to break the law – like, for example. that the NSB gets a fine of slightly more than NOK 100000 when they throw a medieval ship on a dung, when they make a car park – then you can see that there is no balance in this. I think you have to think creatively about the use of archaeologists. Now only official archaeologists on official missions are allowed to do such jobs. I believe that there should have been a certification of which archaeologists can take such jobs, so that it is possible for contractors to pay to get a faster excavation of an area. Then we have to remember that there is also no balance in what was big sources of income before, which makes you sit on big cultural memories today. It's the problem for a lot of people who live on what is called big farms in my language, where the income base is not related to the building stock today, because the income base of agriculture has become very different, and is built on other factors. There are other things that are expensive. All of us who have tried to reconstruct something 150 years old have noticed that what was expensive then, materials, is cheap today, while what was cheap then, that is labour, is expensive today. That means that we get other challenges to take care of cultural memories. Today we have tabled five proposals on the matter. I would like to take them up, and I would also like to inform you that we will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 in the case. The first proposal relates to the challenge that urban politicians face when it comes to caring for cultural memories, and more and more speculative building decay is being experienced – that those who sit and manage cultural memories speculate in due time to ensure that they do not take responsibility. We have put forward proposals on this in the context of the Planning and Building Act, and we are also promoting the proposal here. We are also concerned with the protection of ships, and with strengthening the small and protective subjects and conservation craft in the Norwegian education system. We have mentioned that earlier, but we are also promoting it here today. So at the end of proposal No. 9, which we promote. I think one of the most important things we can do to get more economically sustainable solutions, and to be able to get people involved in cultural memory protection, is to strengthen the ideal organisations working in the area. They do a very big job, and by strengthening them you can get a lot out of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2400	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2403	Since the end of the last Ice Age and until today, man has commanded and lived in what is now Norway. To meet our own and community's needs, we've adapted to harsh natural conditions, exploiting resources and seeing traces of us in the landscape. Many of those tracks are today important cultural memory. They are an important part of our national wealth, and they represent the values and possibilities on which future societies will build. Taking care of cultural memory is therefore a future project. Even if we don't know what the future will be, we know some important developments that will shape our society in the future. These are trends that will also affect important cultural memory values. With what goes on, the message points to some important strategic options. It is now eight years since the last time the Stortinge discussed a big message about cultural memory policy. A message focused on knowledge, experience and use, highlighting possibilities rather than limitations. The message had a high level of ambition and clear targets by 2020. In the future, the foothold must show the government what has been done so far in the field, how to target the efforts of the coming years, what needs to be strengthened, and how to manage cultural memory values in the light of the challenges we will face in the future. The ambitions and targets of the previous cultural memory message are still valid, but I would like to stress that the 2020 targets are ambitious. That is why it has been important in this message to keep those ambitions up and show how we can reach them. In the next two decades, population growth and urbanisation will be among the strongest trends. Three quarters of population growth will come in four metropolitan regions. This will put pressure on nature, greenhouse gas emissions and not least cultural memory. Buildings, quarters and historical structures in cities represent large cultural historical values. They're a part of giving the cities a unique character. They provide a large potential for value creation and are important in a sustainability perspective. In order to be successful in urban development, both knowledge and willingness to take care of and further develop quality is essential. Another example is climate change – changes that in the short term could seriously damage important cultural memories. Increasing internationalization will also shape our society in the future. Cultural memory and knowledge of the past can contribute to the understanding, identity and stability of a changing society. Around the world, cultural memory is threatened by expansion, natural disasters and conflicts. International cooperation is therefore important and the UNESCO World Heritage Convention is a central instrument. When it comes to the administration of our own heritage, there is a need to continue working on concrete policy and ensure better coordination of government instruments. Knowledge and competence are important to ensure a level playing field and not least to ensure good governance data for cultural memory management. It is decisive that municipalities have sufficient competence, knowledge and commitment to the cultural memory values they manage. Craftsmanship is also crucial for maintaining buildings and vessels, and we therefore propose to intervene in this message to strengthen the work of competence – not least craftsmanship. When history is to be told, the whole image must be included. It is therefore important to give priority to the holistic cultural environment, the cultural memory of the war and the cultural memory of the various minority groups. The same applies to cultural memory that has meant too many, such as: schools, collecting houses and the working culture of their cultural memories. This does not mean that everything should be satisfied, but a holistic image must form the basis for the priorities of cultural memory management. Owners and volunteers take a great responsibility and make an invaluable effort to preserve peaceful cultural memories. They play a key role in protection work. It is therefore important to further develop and strengthen cooperation with owners and voluntary organisations, and further develop procedures for good, prudent and effective peace processes. Smarter ways of working and more targeted resource use will enable us to manage cultural memories as an important resource for the future – a future with footholds. In addition, we will be required to continue the increase in the permissions that the red-green government has set up. So I'll make a couple of comments. The first one is in the picture that we have very few cultural memories in Norway. We have few castles, but we have incredible wealth of cultural memory. For cultural memory is the story of our whole history – all of us tracked down from our own culture. That's just the broad picture that we have to draw. It also shows how big a challenge we have. Finally, I can agree that there is a great deal of attention to cultural memory locally, and perhaps too little in this room. That is why I would like to thank the Committee at the latest. I had the pleasure of inviting them to Son, had a review of the cultural memory there, and took them out and showed them one of the great cities in Norway where cultural memory dominates how we live today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2435	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2438	Cultural memory protection is important and the objective adopted by the Storting in 2004 of not losing more than 0,5 pst by 2020. annual, more financial support and professional assistance from the State to those who own cultural memories than at present must be provided in the opinion of the Progress Party. Just as the three ship protection centres we have today, the Progress Party believes that we should establish building protection centres to a considerable extent throughout the country in order to preserve the old craft traditions, which are often necessary to preserve cultural memories. Without this being put really into the system, we're afraid they'll be lost. Does the Council agree with this, and will he start an investigation to look at this with building protection centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2447	I think it's an interesting thought, so I'm not going to deny that we're going to look at it. I think this is an area where we have to recognize that it is not an easy task to ensure the necessary skills and craftsmanship. There is nothing that could give you permission to figure out, because it requires a lot. There could be one answer. In this message, we inform some others, including a strengthening in the case of continuing training through cooperation with industry and Vox. I think that might be an important contribution for people who are craftsmen, who want to specialise and take something extra. We're notifying you of a bachelor's degree on an even higher level. But there's no doubt that we need to find the grip that ensures that we can keep and sometimes regain the knowledge that one had in the past and that is important to preserve cultural memories. I think I'll say it this way that I take with me all the input and view with interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2460	In 2008-2009, the National Audit Office had an administrative audit of the follow-up to the cultural monuments we have set ourselves in this Chamber. The national audit concluded very firmly that key assumptions for achieving the 2020 targets were not in place. Now we've got a new cultural memory message, Future with footrests, and it contains amazingly few new instruments. So we have the National Audit Office, which has concluded that we have no instruments, and then this message comes without any new tools. There is a lot to consider, investigate and continue, but it is very little new. Is this, in the opinion of the Council of State, enough to achieve the objectives set by this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2467	This is a good basis for achieving the 2020 target, but we will be totally dependent on an annual follow-up. Let me first nuance the picture of the situation. It is true that there are formidable challenges to achieving the goal, but significant progress has also been made. If you go through the number, you see, for example: that the part of private buildings where there is a great need to do something has fallen considerably in recent years. I mean to remember that the representative Astrup himself was inside the spelling churches in his post – there has been a significant improvement. There is also progress in other areas, although it is not the same. What is required to achieve the goal? First of all, we have to be able to get a systematic increase in the permissions. In the budget for this year, we're increasing the field by 40 million. kr to the conservation programme. I mean to remember that it was about 12.5 pst, so significant over what most areas got. But in addition to promises, skills, knowledge, will be important. We're just launching new grips that can get more twisted in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2478	It's a question I want to ask the Council of States. In order to take care of the very things that the Council of State pointed out in its statement, as a city politician, I often experience that there may be owners who speculate in decay, who wonder that the houses will almost fall down before taking care of or developing these areas. We have wanted the municipalities, both in the planning and building laws and in the other laws, to have a larger rice behind the mirror in order to be able to intervene against speculative decay. My question is, why is it so difficult for the government to give the municipalities the power to stop just these landowners?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2489	I don't know if the representative Skei Grande is aware of this, but from 1 January 2013, a new home – that's right enough the municipal and regional minister's territory – went into effect for the municipalities, with the possibility to order and ask for the restoration of conservation buildings. Some of the background is for giving municipalities a more powerful means of power in the cases that can be documented. So I'm going to say that it's a nuanced image, but my impression is that the main picture is that private owners – and others responsible for cultural memory – have a lot of commitment and interest in it, and that it's possible to figure it out with dialogue. It was nevertheless right, in our opinion, to give the municipalities the opportunity to impose the compensation they have now received.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2496	I am well aware of that, but we would probably have had stronger instruments, because we see that the municipalities are experiencing the big owners that the council is talking about – those who really care – while some really boycotts and coaches. What we also see, for example. in my neighborhood in the Old Town of Oslo, NSB is going to build a car park, discover a medieval ship and throw it in garbage, because it is much more profitable to throw it in garbage, because then you get 100,000 fines – as opposed to sitting down and waiting for the archaeologists to come and take it up. Isn't the council worried about what's going on, especially in the cities? This happens especially in the context of city cultural memories, because there's so much money at stake, and there's so much money to make on both speculative decay and throwing archeology on the dung -- literally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2506	I just want to say that that was the concern that was behind the home of the municipalities that we didn't have before. My perception is that it is a means of power that they will be able to use. I want to encourage the municipalities to do it in those cases where they see that there are actually actors who are not following the law and who are removing cultural memory. I think it will be a tool that can work, and that can do something about this problem. And so I'm going to add that I don't think that's the main picture. I think the main picture is different, and that there is a lack of available competence and a resource situation, which we are gradually trying to improve, which is the most important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2515	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2518	Cultural memory is an important part of our cultural heritage, identity and history. That's why we need to take care of important cultural memories for the future, so that future generations can learn from the past. To achieve this, we need to maintain a representative part of cultural memory in different parts of the country. The best way to do this is to make cultural memories visible and make sure they are active. To create respect for cultural memory and understanding that it is important to take care of it, there must be consistency between the objective of preserving cultural memory and the costs and disadvantages that result from it. This does not apply at least to archaeological excavations. Unfortunately, today many people experience that archaeological excavations are very costly and bureaucratic, and that it takes a long time to free up land. At the end of January, I visited Hole Tractor & Machine at Byrkekelo in the municipality of Gloppen. There the owner wanted to expand his workshop, but encountered great difficulties due to the fact that it was made during archaeological investigations, and demands were made for archaeological excavations before the area was released. Two fields had to be dug on cultivated land next to the workshop, which was to be expanded. The cost of site excavating No. 1 was NOK 473,756 and the cost of location no. 2 was NOK 497 709. In total, this would cost about 1 million. NOK, and the company had to take all these costs. For the owner of Hole Tractor & Machine, this is very unimaginable. If one has to pay 1 million. kr before one can start developing at all, it says itself that this is going to be difficult. It must be allowed to ask questions about how it may be possible that it will cost so much to excavate such a small area, and whether the excavation could not be organized in a much simpler way. Another question is whether it is correct that the same station that is to be dug is also the one that sets the conditions for what to dig and how to do it. Here it can easily be the goat and the oat sack. Right-wing thinks it's important that one can facilitate the protection of cultural memory, there are many of them, for example. animal graves and pit pits. Right also means that more responsibility should be transferred to local cultural memory management. Right, in addition, states have to assume greater financial responsibility for the costs of archaeological excavations. Right proposes that a model for the prioritisation and financing of archaeological excavations should be established which provides a better balance between the decision on excavation and the cost and financing of the excavation. It is strange that the government party is not involved in this submission. The representative of Egeland doesn't understand what's in this, but I thought maybe the Central Party understood better what's in such a proposal, and that they would also support the proposal that comes from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2548	Norway is a maritime nation and a fishing nation, but it's probably that the maritime part of cultural memory protection has a little bit of time to get started. We protect industry from forest processing, we protect buildings, and we protect things from agriculture before we start thinking that the maritime sector may be one of the basic sectors of Norwegian history. That is why it is very positive that the Committee has come up with a unanimous remark on ship protection, which I see as having a perspective for the future. The Committee notes that a national protection plan will be passed on, and the Committee stresses that greater public support will be required to implement the concrete measures and strategies of the National Protection Plan for Ships. It's an ambition that I'm absolutely committed to. Then there's one thing that the Committee points out especially, and that's the importance of retaining adequate competence when it comes to ship rehabilitation, not least when it comes to steel ships. There I just want to do some examples. One of the technologies, the skills, which may actually be just one place in the world today, is to take care of our school ships. A ship that the 'Southern' and several other school ships are clinked — they are not welded. Today, there may be only one place in the world that can still sound so that it gets stuck, and it should be if there's a ship that we're talking about. When the school ship «Southern» was to be rehabilitated, it was sent on offer and ended up in Turkey. But the Turks had to come to Kristiansand to get clinker skills. There were no other places in the world they could find someone with clinker skills, someone who sounded a ship tight. I just wanted to point out that this is an example of a very unique competence that is important to perpetuate some of what we might be very proud of, that is, our schoolship.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2559	I am very pleased with the representative Alf Egil Holmelid said. This is specifically the case with Bredalsholmen. This applies to all the vessel centres, but especially to Bredalsholmen. It is very important that they have both the resources to maintain their competence, and that there are at all times enough orders on steel ships that they can operate all year round. The representative Lødemel had a story about excavations. On the first page of Tønsberg Blade today there is a happy homeowner who has found a monastery in his garden. He can tell another story. He was shocked that he had to pay for the excavation. But there are subsidies, and the state covers excavations for such private owners. I think it is very important that the responsibility for excavation lies on the landowner, as other properties of a property are actually on the landowner, whether it is the property’s nature – whether it is steep or has bad grounds, whether there are water pipes or sewer lines there. This means that larger builders have to include the cost of excavations in their projects. I am convinced that what is proposed as a system, that the State should assume responsibility, would at least lead to the land being released much later. So you can have an understanding of some of Lødemel's history of excavations, but the Right and Advance Party point to solutions that are just going to make this worse, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2570	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2584	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed to give rise to a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2593	With the presentation of this North Sea and Skagerrak management plan, all of our marine areas have been covered by management plans, in line with the leadership given when the Bondevik II government presented the world’s first global marine environmental notification, St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002, clean and rich seas. An overall increase was behind this marine environmental message, as is now the case with an overall committee behind the North Sea and Skagerrak management plan. Norway is a significant port, and we are over large sea areas. Our management plans aim at facilitating value creation through a knowledge-based and sustainable use of resources and ecosystem services, while maintaining the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. In order to address all these considerations, knowledge is a necessary prerequisite — knowledge of status, knowledge of context. The North Sea and Skagerrak are our most intensively exploited sea area. Among other things, in 2010 the North Sea accounted for about two thirds of petroleum production on Norwegian soil. Furthermore, the North Sea and the Skagerrak represent important fishing areas and are responsible for about 25 pst. of the national catch value. In addition, the coastline of these sea areas has a large population, including residents, cabin people and other travellers. This means that areas are also used intensively for outdoor and recreational purposes. Skagerrak is the country’s most widely used area of marine recreational activities. Furthermore, these areas are also likely to be relevant to any future development of marine energy. This intensive use of these marine areas implies that different considerations need to be balanced in a good, sustainable and constructive way. We must also cooperate internationally because the North Sea and the Skagerrak are shared between eight countries: Sweden, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, France and the United Kingdom. These sea areas have been and have been partially exposed to long-distance transport of pollution, but the state of the environment has, fortunately, improved – among others. as a result of international cooperation. This also applies, of course, to the management of fisheries resources. It is important that we manage the stocks in a good manner that provides a basis for profitable fishing in these marine areas and along this part of the Norwegian coast. The Committee shall, inter alia, underline: the importance of the introduction of a draft ban in the EU for Skagerak from 2013. The North Sea is expected to have about 56 pst. of the remaining petroleum resources on Norwegian cap. Seismic collection has probably been a source of conflict between the petroleum industry and the fishing industry, but it is positive that the authorities have developed legislation to create predictability and clear frameworks for both industries, including: by training and quality assurance of fishermen on board seismic vessels. Many people have made considerable efforts from fishermen’s organisations, the Fisheries Directorate, the Oil Directorate and the petroleum industry to achieve this in a good way. There is an overall committee supporting the objectives set out in the management plan to establish good environmental status and sustainable harvesting and use for the North Sea and Skagerrak, and the measures proposed are to reduce over-fertilisation and to strengthen preparedness for acute pollution. The greatest risk lies in the major shipping traffic in the area and in recent years there have been three basic oil spills of a certain extent, namely MS ‘Server’ in 2007, MV ‘Full City’ in 2009 and MS ‘Godafoss’ in 2011. Good towing boat readiness and traffic monitoring are important to prevent this type of accident, and an overall committee has also referred to the process in progress in order to establish a long-term model for the overall Norwegian towing boat readiness. Furthermore, the Committee supports measures to combat marine pollution, ensure the sustainable harvesting of fish stocks, safe populations of seabirds and the establishment of marine protection areas and protected areas, as well as the knowledge-building and strengthening of international cooperation in these marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2610	As the rapporteur said, with this North Sea and Skagerrak management plan, we now have management plans for all Norwegian sea areas. This is a good and important tool for overall governance. This is how we facilitate business and the environment. The purpose of the management plan is to facilitate value creation through the sustainable use of resources and ecosystem services in the North Sea and Skagerrak. At the same time, we must maintain the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. The management plan is therefore a tool both for value creation and for maintaining the environmental values of the marine environment. As a rogalending, I am very aware of the enormous impact of industrial activities in this area – especially in the last 40 years of oil and gas operations, but also the proud history of shipping and other maritime activities in the area. The North Sea has accounted for a very large proportion of petroleum production on Norwegian soil, while both the North Sea and the Skagerrak have a high fishing activity, with about 25 pst. of national catch value. There is no doubt that the large amount of activity in the management area has affected the state of the environment in the region. Good work has been carried out in the monitoring of environmental status in the area in the management plan. It gives us a good compass in the further work, and it gives us an overview that gives us better tools to understand the overall impact on the environment in the area. I am very pleased that the government is holding on to the fact that it is not going to open up to petroleum activities in Skagerrak. We will assess the future need for new knowledge of the petroleum resources and environment in the Skagerrak and no petroleum activities will be undertaken in the area until such an assessment has been carried out. I am very pleased that the environmental state of the area is now better than it has been in the past. It is a positive development, which was also discussed by the rapporteur. International and national environmental legislation has contributed to this. In the areas we are now discussing, it is also a significant potential for sea winds. The 2010 Marine Wind Report identified six areas in the North Sea that are relevant for offshore wind power generation. The report has been followed up by a strategic impact assessment, which recommends prioritisation of four of these areas. These are the Faroe Islands, Utsira North, Southern North Sea I and Southern North Sea II. The strategic impact study had a consultation period now in April. The selection of sea wind areas takes into account the effects on the natural environment. The strategic impact study has therefore investigated seabird, fish, marine mammals and bottom communities. It has been established how development will affect petroleum interests, shipping, fishing interests and a number of other interests. A comprehensive perspective has been established on the location of marine wind projects. The adoption of the management plan marks the beginning of an exciting further work in the region. In the plan, the government proposes a number of measures that I believe are right to increase knowledge of the sea areas, and to strengthen regulation. Since the President-in-Office, Siri A. Meling, so well referred to them, I shall not refer to them again. But I'm very happy that we now have management plans for all of our marine areas. It provides a strength in the environmental work and predictability of business that I think is very valuable, and I am very happy to see that the consensus in the committee is so great in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2633	The North Sea and Skagerrak are highly vulnerable sea areas. Fortunately, the state of the environment today is better than it was in the past, but there are, of course, challenges related to petroleum activities in the North Sea, to shipping, to long-distance pollution and taxation of fishing resources. The North Sea and Skagerrak also have a significantly higher concentration of pollutants than other Norwegian sea areas. The rapporteur said that there is an overall committee that is submitting a referral. But it's an important exception. The government parties and the Christian People's Party are pleased not to open up to petroleum activities in the Skagerrak, but that consensus does not include the Advance Party and the Right. In a situation where we are internationally obliged to protect larger marine areas, and where climate considerations indicate that we cannot exploit all the fossil resources we know, we must protect the most vulnerable marine areas. In the opinion of the SV, the sea area outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja is a sea area that should be protected because of its great importance for fisheries, while the Skagerrak should be protected precisely because it is already such a heavily loaded sea area. The main economic activities in the sea area today are fisheries, ship traffic, North Sea petroleum and travel activities. The message also describes the importance of marine ecosystem services for value creation. Fishing in the North Sea and Skagerrak account for about 20 pst. of the total value of Norwegian fisheries. Marine farming activity along the coast bordering the management plan area is concentrated in the West. Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and Rogaland hold 31 p.m. the authorisations for the rearing of salmon and trout in Norway. They are also affected by environmental conditions in the North Sea and Skagerrak. Ship traffic is more extensive and complex than in any of the other sea areas. The traffic separation system and recommended sailing routes introduced in July 2011 are now fortunately contributing to greater ships and ships with a dangerous or polluting load much further off the coast. The aim of the route measures is to reduce the likelihood of an accident occurring and, of course, to reduce the consequences of any oil spill. The sea and the coast are of great importance for recreation, leisure and travel in Norway. The coastal route is very attractive and widely used by the population. The coastal and marine environment is important for outdoor life by providing experience value, it is a place of activity, it provides health benefits, and it is an important basis for local activity. A total of 58 000 people are employed in the tourism industry in this area. Then we have the term ‘other ecosystem services’. It's e.g. marine degradation of harmful organisms, it is the maintenance of the stability of the ecosystem, and it is climate regulation. Most of such ecosystem services are common goods that are not traded in any markets and thus have no market price. This means that the costs of destroying such services are not included in business calculations or are presented in regular accounts. Therefore, there is also a greater risk of degradation of these services, and hence the basis for future well-being. The main purpose of the whole system of management plans is to ensure that the economic value and ecological importance of these non-market services are managed in a sustainable manner. Also non-market services have significant value. It's important to remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2650	Today, the Storting adopted the management plan for the North Sea and Skagerrak. With this, all our areas are covered by management plans. In this management plan, the difficult and important balances need to be made. Significant environmental challenges are to be taken seriously. The area has an important part of petroleum production, while the fishing activity is 25 pst. of the national catch value. In addition, large values are associated with leisure and recreation. With cross-cutting values, and in addition to the fact that this area is divided between or borders into eight countries, it is evident that major requirements are imposed on the management of the sea area. The management plan addresses both challenges and highlights. The state of the environment is challenging, but he's in trouble. International environmental cooperation has worked. Another point of light is that the spawning stock of cod in the North Sea is likely to pass through the critical level for the first time since the 1990s. It underlines the importance of knowledge-based management, and I hope that the same developments will also be true for other endangered species and endangered species. It is also important that management plans focus on the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. The overall assessment of the North Sea and Skagerrak management plan requires that no petroleum industry should be opened up in Skagerrak now. At the same time, since 2007, three basic sills with the following oil spill remind us of the importance of reducing the risk of acute pollution from shipping. In connection with that, I would like to underline the point of the representative, that the effort put in place around the location of shipowners both in this area and in other areas, is an important step to prevent oil accidents involving ships, and also what has happened on capacity building around tugboats, which may be the most important simple step that can be taken to prevent these kinds of accidents. The central party supports the objectives and measures contained in the management plan and is therefore pleased to support it here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2665	The management of the North Sea and Skagerrak shall be based on the best available knowledge. In this plan, the government says that governance should be further strengthened through systematic knowledge building on ecosystems. The aim is to facilitate value creation through the sustainable use of resources and ecosystem services in the North Sea and Skagerrak, while maintaining the structure, functioning, productivity and natural diversity of ecosystems. The management plan and its measures mainly cover the open sea areas of the Norwegian part of the North Sea and Skagerrak, i.e. areas outside the baseline, in the territorial waters and in the Norwegian economic zone north of City. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is holding on to the fact that it is not opening up to petroleum activities in the Skagerrak. I have noticed that the government will assess the future need for new knowledge of the petroleum resources and environment in the Skagerrak, and that no petroleum activity will take place in the area until such an assessment has been carried out. That is good – but the Christian People's Party does not see the need to map the petroleum resources of Skagerrak. We want Skagerrak to remain oil free in the future as well. Norway needs to take its share of the responsibility for reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. This was also pointed out by the representative of Egeland in his good report. This means that some of the remaining oil resources on the Norwegian base must remain below sea level. The Christian People's Party believes that oil activities should not be opened up in vulnerable sea areas where environmental and/or fisheries considerations argue that such activities are irresponsible. We have therefore programmed that petroleum-free zones should be established in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja, Jan Mayen, the Moravian Banks and coastal areas of Skagerrak. Petroleum-free zones should also be established in particularly vulnerable and coastal regions of the Barents Sea. The North Sea and Skagerrak are our most intensively exploited sea area and one of the world's most busy sailing areas. In 2010, the North Sea accounted for about two thirds of the petroleum production on Norwegian soil, while both the North Sea and the Skagerrak have a high fishing activity of about 25 pst. of national catch value. The North Sea and Skagerrak coastlines have population-advanced areas, a population that, in addition to the tourism industry, uses the sea areas for outdoor and recreational purposes. Skagerrak is the country’s most widely used area of marine-related outdoor activities. The North Sea and Skagerrak are shared between eight countries, resulting in extra large demands for international cooperation in the management of these marine areas. The Christian People's Party wants to promote the extensive and valuable work that, among other things, the open-air councils and the archipelago service shall ensure, facilitate and manage the more than 1000 secured open-air areas in this area. They contribute to the exercise of supervision tasks and the clearing of garbage in natural areas. The value of this work was clearly demonstrated during the cleaning-up of the discharges after the shipwrecks of «Server» and «Full City» respectively, when the archipelago service at Bergen and Omland Free Air Council and the archipelago service at Oslofjorden made a great effort. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the state of the environment in the North Sea and Skagerrak has become better than it was in the past. However, marine areas still face major environmental challenges. Among other things, the North Sea and Skagerrak have higher concentrations of pollutants than other Norwegian sea areas and the highest level of marine litter throughout the North-East Atlantic. This underlines the importance of international environmental cooperation around the North Sea and Skagerrak, and the improved state of the environment shows that this type of cooperation produces results. The Christian People's Party supports the objectives set out in the management plan, namely the establishment of a good environmental status and sustainable harvesting and use. Finally, I would like to make a heart attack, because we have discussed a different management plan during the day, namely the Barents Sea Management Plan south-east: I would like to have the Minister for the Environment in the debate and on the management plan for the Barents Sea. That is why I would like to stress that the good management plan we are receiving here must also apply to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2691	I agree with much of what previous speakers have said, and I am very pleased with this management plan, but I would like to raise a proposal from the Left and justify this. In general, the left considers that coastal petroleum activities should be avoided, as this poses an increased risk of environmental damage in the event of oil spills, and that it poses preparedness challenges, especially in the coastal and coastal zones. The left proposes the establishment of a coastal zone where new petroleum activities are not to be undertaken. Such a zone will provide important protection for coastal seabirds along the coast, for other values in the coastal zone and for values in the coastal belt. The main function of such a zone will be to reduce the risk of environmental damage associated with potential coastal oil spills, as well as to ensure a certain action space for oil control at any oil spill before the oil reaches the coastal, coastal and vulnerable areas and species. Experience from previous near-coastal analyses shows that operating times for oil spills 50 km from the coast can be short and down to the worst. One to two days. The closer the coast to potential emissions, the shorter possible driving times to land will be. The action space for oil management before possible oil stranding is reduced and the likelihood of affecting important seabird areas and other important coastal values and the risk of environmental consequences is increased. We now have an opportunity to put in place such an administrative tool, and so the Left is proposing this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2702	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2705	With the presentation of the management plan for the Norwegian part of the North Sea and Skagerrak, which is being discussed today in Stortinget, the government has established management plans as the basis for a holistic and ecosystem-based management of all Norwegian sea areas. The Government has previously submitted a management plan for the Barents Sea and the beyond sea areas in 2006 and updated it in 2011 and the Norwegian Sea Management Plan was submitted in 2009. The North Sea and Skagerrak are our most intensively exploited marine areas, and we have a long experience of coexistence between our most important marine-based industries. Petroleum industry, shipping and fishing create great value for the Norwegian community. At the same time, Skagerrak is our most useful area of recreation and leisure activities at sea. In the future, renewable energy at sea, in particular sea wind, can also be an important industry. In addition, the value of the marine environment's ecosystem services comes. There's more services than we normally think about. We are intuitively aware that the sea provides us with fish, but also services such as the destruction of harmful organisms, the maintenance of the stability of the ecosystem and climate regulation are important values for us. The ecosystem selection, which is currently under way, will give us advice on the valuation of these services in August. Although much has been done to improve the environment in the North Sea and Skagerrak since the 1970s, especially by reducing industrial and sewerage pollution and long-range air pollution, the plan states that the state of the marine environment is still worrying and in many ways unsatisfactory. The North Sea and Skagerrak are a rich and productive sea area with high environmental values. In the management plan, 12 areas are identified as particularly valuable from the point of view of biological deficiency and production — such as fish and seabird populations, marine mammals and coral deposits. All twelve areas are generally vulnerable, but vulnerability varies according to their impact and timing. In addition, the coastal zone has been identified as a generally valuable area. Current, planned and future activities in the management plan area need to address the environmental challenges identified and the pooling of pressures on marine areas. The objective of good environmental status and sustainable use of the North Sea and Skagerrak means that we must work to improve the environment in those areas. Among the measures, I would like to note that the government will reduce over-fertilisation and pollution, strengthen preparedness for acute pollution, ensure resilient housing of fish stocks, ensure the stock of seabirds, continue work on marine protection plans or blue parks and further knowledge building. I would particularly like to mention marine littering, which is an ever-increasing problem – not only in our seas, but also globally. Marine trash can include: harm animal life. The government will strengthen its efforts to combat marine pollution. The government will continue the management plan system. The holistic framework for the petroleum industry is set out in the management plan for each individual area. The management plans shall be rolling and updated periodically. The Government has decided to update the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in 2014. The Barents Sea-Lofoten management plan shall be updated during the next major period. After a 20-year period, the plans are to be revised, which means a more extensive review than an update. The management plans for the seas have proved to be a good tool for the government. The management plans foster clarification in a superior framework, coordination and prioritisation in management, more robust framework conditions and strengthening coexistence between marine-based industries. The work is rented by the Ministry of the Environment, but all the departments it has something to say are involved in the work. The government will develop a map-based area tool for updating, revising and disseminating management plans. This gives a better overview of the area where the different activities take place, and provides a spatial framework for the activity. The management plans also have an international dimension. Many other countries follow the work with considerable interest, and several countries that Norway cooperates with, demand information and cooperate on this very matter. It's a sign that the Norwegian system is being noticed, not only as a good model for our seas, but also that they have a transfer value to other countries' seas. The government's aim is for Norway to be a transitory country when it comes to holistic and ecosystem-based maritime management.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2742	When the Bondevik II government introduced the communication of the marine environment, this integrated ecosystem-based approach to management was also introduced in many ways. Then, of course, knowledge, which the Council of State has been in, is absolutely essential to exercise it wisely. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State mean is the most important knowledge building we can do in the future to achieve even better ecosystem-based management in the areas of the North Sea and the Skagerrak?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2749	I think there are several things, but if I'm going to mention something, a very decisive factor is, I think, strengthening knowledge about the effects of climate change, not least when it comes to marine acidification. There is a strong underestimation of the impact of climate change, which fortunately now gives more attention, including in the field of research, to how it can systematically affect, alter and shift the diversity of species. It'll be very important to us. It can have great consequences for our seas. We imagine that we should be able to carry out pilot projects and action analyses, as additional measures to improve the state of the environment in the North Sea and Skagerrak regions, and that we should be able to further develop a coordinated monitoring system for the various areas, and that could be an important basis for future management plans. At least that's among the central things.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2756	The left has made a proposal in the Chamber today to introduce a limit of at least 35 metres from countries where new oil activities are not to be opened, plus the areas currently closed to such activities. What assessments does the Council of State make of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2761	We will not support that proposal. The representative laughs -- it may not be so surprising; I agree with that, but this is a management plan that, in our opinion, provides a good basis for managing the areas nearby. Different areas in Norway are different. We have significant areas where there is a 35-kilometre limit without petroleum; an additional limit with delimitations. Then we have significant sea areas where it is not open near land, in reality a much larger distance. And then we have the areas where there's no such limit. I think that, in sum, the management plans we have now provide a good basis for managing the coastal areas, but there is no doubt that the risk attached to nearby oil business is great. It is therefore important not to open Skagerrak now, and that we did not recommend anything at Mørebanken, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2770	I really have two questions, but I can try to take them in the same line. The first is a follow-up to what the representative Tenden asked for. I noticed that Clif recommended a 25-kilometre limit, and they were clear about vulnerability and, of course, the risk of emissions. What is the background for the government not following that proposal? My second question is: the Christian People's Party is very pleased with the management plan and clearly that it should not be opened. As I said, I wonder why it is necessary to map the petroleum resources and to clarify that petroleum activities will not be undertaken in the area until such an assessment has been carried out. What is the background for wanting such monitoring, when it is so obvious otherwise that these are vulnerable areas, and to the extent that they are also clear on the climate aspect, that some of the resources must remain on the ground?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2779	Finally, as far as I'm concerned, it's probably an assessment of the need or something in that direction. We're going to do that, to say it like that, so I'm going to come back to it. When it comes to the first, Norway, as I was inside, is an extremely long country, and the challenges nearby are very different. There's a big difference between the northernmost areas where we have a 35-kilometre limit – we have an area where we actually have far larger areas that are not open – to the south where we have a single area that is not open, but no general limit. That's what's at the root of what I mean. Through the three management plans, we have robust management, although there is no doubt that the risk, if it is near-land petroleum industry, is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2788	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers will have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2793	I'm going to deal with a couple of things from the groceries that haven't been mentioned before today. Firstly, I would like to rent out saying that Skagerrak is a very difficult area, in the sense that it is vulnerable, but at the same time it has very large maritime traffic. In addition to the fact that there is a limited area with high seas traffic, Skagerrak is also in many ways the entrance to the Baltic Sea. So if we can destroy the relationship in Skagerrak, we've also ruined a lot for our neighbors. Hence, managing Skagerrak is very important. One of the things that we are very happy about in that context is that we are going to build five new multi-purpose vessels with special, modern hubs to take care of oil spills. It's a bet that I think is going to be very important to make sure that we don't destroy the great natural resources, not to talk about the beaches of the South in a given situation. There's one thing I thought there was a reason to mention here in the hall. Another area I would like to mention, since I am a member of the nutrition committee and I work very much with a resilient fisheries policy, is that the message focuses on following up the agreement that has now been concluded with the EU on the prohibition of discarding fish. It's also a very important area. The production of fish is an outlay, which the EU has been carrying for many years, and which is a very waste of resources, because the fish they are throwing out cannot live on, but is nevertheless an amazingly great food resource, both as human food and as feed for farmed fish. It is a matter that is very important for the government to follow up. I would like to conclude with – as many have been involved – the joy of the fact that the staging message is ready that it should not be opened for oil drilling in Skagerrak. I'm very concerned that the two largest opposition parties won't be on that note. There are gloomy prospects for Skagerrak and Sørlanden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2804	As most have mentioned, all marine areas now have a comprehensive management plan. We remember the situation before the time of the management plans. The grip that was taken in the big news Clean and rich seas was absolutely crucial to getting out of a very difficult situation, where knowledge was opposed to knowledge, the sector opposed the sector. We didn't have an overall knowledge base to which the Storting could relate. Now we have finished the big work. The management plan has already been updated. It's about the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. The Norwegian Sea was treated in the previous period, and this is being treated here today. That means we have a complete grip. In fact, management plans are characterised primarily by large knowledge processes, where all sectors participate, where we look at the impacts in context, and where we look at the nature of the ecosystem in the sea. What these processes add up to enables us, as politicians, to make decisions with the best available knowledge base that is to recover. It is a strength, and it is a great strength that we are able to organise such processes across the sectors. It's true, as the Council of State says, that this has been noticed abroad. Even the EU Marine Environment Directive is inspired by the work done on the management plans. What is becoming important in the future is that all governance should take place within the framework of the management plans adopted by the Storting. No new action that does not take place within the overall framework laid down here should be possible, because then we break with the principle of the Communication Clean and Rich Seas that one sector can do one thing, and another sector can do something else, and then we will not get a complete grip. If we are to maintain the overall grip we are now concluding, it is extremely important that no new areas, for example: may be opened for oil exploration without an update or revision of a management plan in advance. Then we keep the grip that the management plans were going to do, which was supposed to do with the clean and rich seas, and which have been followed up to today. I hope it's a policy that will continue, and that this overall approach will be appreciated. So far it's been in the best interests of our oceans.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2821	The representative Holmelid and the representative of Egeland have pointed out that the Right does not agree with the majority in a note where the government parties and the Christian People's Party are very pleased with the government's mention of petroleum activities in Skagerrak. I want to say that the Right is behind this management plan and the leaders in it. This also applies to petroleum activity. If we don't – in the same way as these parties – want to express our great satisfaction with the government, there's no drama in it. It is quite right, as the representative Sørensen just said from this pulpit, that if one is to open these areas, normal procedures will have to be followed, both in terms of the management plan and in terms of what might be required under the petroleum law. So I might think that these representatives are trying to make some cheap points out that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not with the government parties and the Christian People's Party in this particular note. The most important thing is that we stand behind the management plan, as presented by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2831	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2845	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes per batch and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2854	Last year, about this time, we discussed Norwegian climate policy in this room, that is, what we in Norway were going to do to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to halting and reducing global greenhouse gas emissions growth to a sustainable level. However, we know that climate change is already under way and that it will become more noticeable in the years to come, whether we are able to agree on measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions both in this country and in the world as a whole. The impact of greenhouse gases on nature and society will be the result of climate change. It also depends on the capacity, opportunities and willingness of society to take into account that the climate will change in the future and actively adapt to these changes. It is a fact that Norway is exposed to a long-distance coast and large high-mountain areas that extend into the Arctic. Weather and climate affect almost all parts of society and is an important part of the everyday life of most people. The Norwegian people have therefore always been used to taking into account the weather and have adapted over the centuries to a changing climate. Nevertheless, more extreme weather, with storms and more frequent floods, could in the future put society to great test. We have seen several examples of this in several parts of the country in recent years – most recently in Eastern Europe now in spring. A modern society is vulnerable to natural disasters. Very much of the infrastructure, machinery, appliances and other aids in our society depend on electricity. The power supply system must be dimensioned in order to withstand extreme weather. Major power failure will have major economic consequences and pose a threat to life and health. The Hurricane 'Days' a year and a half ago showed how vulnerable our communities are when the current goes away for longer periods. Societal change will affect our vulnerability to climate change. An increasing proportion of the Norwegian population lives in urban areas and cities are expected to continue to grow. The largest cities in Norway are located on the coast or up to the watercourses. Larger and more intense catchments require more flood management in cities. Urban development in port areas also poses challenges due to sea level rises. Cities also have a lot of infrastructure, with their many buildings, roads, ports and grids. This infrastructure will be vulnerable if climate change involves more intense rainfall and increased likelihood of local rain floods. There is therefore a need to strengthen both prevention and preparedness. There is also a need to define overall state responsibility. In the case of river floods, as we experienced in Eastern Europe this spring, responsibility for preparedness is clearly defined by the NVE. But there is also a need to define responsibilities in terms of floods and sea level rises. There is therefore a weakness in the notification that it does not clarify these responsibilities. I note that the government parties also share this criticism. It is therefore essential that the State budget for 2014 finally clears the State responsibility for overwater, sea level rise and the coordination function in the climate adaptation field. There is also a need to clarify responsibilities in order to ensure the settlement of floods and hazards. Today, municipalities have a general responsibility to take care of the inhabitants and to take responsibility for the local flood and scaffolding facilities. The distribution of responsibilities between the builder, municipality, county and state related to the development of new buildings and infrastructure is clearly defined in the law through the rules on spatial planning and construction management – but it is thus a new building. When it comes to responsibility for existing settlements, it is somewhat more unclear. I record that the report states that the department has started work on clarifying the responsibility of municipalities for flood and step-by-step prevention in existing buildings. That's good. But I would like to stress that this is urgent. It is not at all urgent to have clear responsibilities when people have to leave their homes because it is no longer safe to live there because of climate change. The right considers that municipalities have to take financial responsibility – in addition to the insurance company – for the costs incurred by owners of dwellings as a result of having to move from their home or rebuild the dwelling in another place due to increased flood and slip risk. We need new knowledge about how climate change will affect each municipality. The allocations in the last few years of the state budget for flood and discard prevention cover only a fraction of the need for the identification of danger zones for flooding and migration in the municipalities. Increased efforts are therefore needed in this area in the coming years. Climate change is here whether we like it or not. Therefore, while we are taking action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need to adapt to the changes that we know are coming. Fortunately, the processing of this message shows broad agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2888	Climate change is among the biggest challenges we face, not just here to land, but in the world. Like all parties in the Committee, apart from the Progress Party, I believe that climate change over the last 150 years cannot be explained without taking into account human greenhouse gas emissions. The Labour Party sets the targets we have committed ourselves to in the climate agreement, underpinning our climate policy, and our goal is to limit global greenhouse gas emissions so that the global temperature increase does not exceed 2 degrees. I believe that we need to pursue an ambitious, national climate policy. I record that the Progress Party did not find it natural to join the rest of the committee on that note either – I just note that. In isolation, even at 2°C, climate change is leading to major challenges for society, both globally and locally. Just how much change we'll be facing depends on how much temperature will increase. It is that even if we succeed in climate policy, the temperature will rise in the next hundred years, and the climate will change. It is therefore necessary to focus on climate adaptation. Climate change will lead to more and more extreme weather and other climate phenomena leading to an increased risk of personal injury and damage and wear and tear on infrastructure and buildings. In the planning of e.g. buildings and roads must be taken into account. In Stavanger, which is not so far away from where I come from, the new culture house was built higher than what was planned, because of the reasons for spring tide and future sea level rise. It was important to avoid water – sometime in the future – flowing into the majestic foyer. E6 through the Gudbrand valley between Øyer and Thirteen was raised by 36 cm after the flood in 2011, and further through Ringebu and Otta the roads were dimensioned for the 200-year flood plus a safety margin of one metre. Knowledge is a prerequisite for effective climate adaptation. Increased knowledge of climate change and its impacts, as well as how we as a society adapt to change, will be important in further work. It is important that we at all times build adaptation work on the best available knowledge of climate change and how to deal with it. It is therefore also important to strengthen the knowledge base for adaptation to climate change through more active monitoring of climate change, stepping up climate research and developing the national Climate Services Centre. The local nature of climate change places municipalities in a first line in meeting climate change. Larger and more intense amounts of water catchment are required for overwater management in cities due to many dense surfaces on roads and places. Urban development in port areas and congestion also poses challenges, as the rapporteur of the case pointed out. In order for municipalities to carry out their tasks in a way that ensures robust and sustainable local communities, it is necessary that the consideration of an changed climate becomes an integral part of municipal responsibility. I am therefore pleased that the government will develop a government planning guideline for the work of municipalities and county municipalities on climate adaptation in land and community planning. Climate change will be greatest – and will be most noticeable – in arctic regions. Therefore, the Arctic is a central area both in climate policy and in climate adaptation. Climate adaptation in the Arctic is an area that the government must follow closely in the future, in particular with regard to strengthening the knowledge base on the Arctic in the context of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2918	It is important that society plan and act on the basis of extreme events. That is why I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that is behind most of the comments in connection with this big message. It is simply because as a society we have to take into account extreme weather, as it is referred to as – extreme events, race, floods, etc. – will occur in the future, in the same way as it has actually happened earlier in our history. We must take that into account in planning, in policy-making and in how we choose to set up our infrastructure and resources. As I said, I am pleased that an overall committee is behind that principle. But to connect this to most extremes, let's say, the future scenarios – of the kind of extreme weather and extreme events – that I perceive that some in the committee are trying, among other things. The last speaker, I would warn strongly against. The reason why I want to warn strongly against it is because it tells us. The researchers tell us that extreme events and extreme weather cannot necessarily be linked to so-called man-made climate change, rather on the contrary. This is where you need knowledge. In our comments, we refer to a number of such statements, including those from recognised mainstream climate researchers. In the vote, we refer to the UN Panel on Climate Change – and I think it is a little strange that the Committee cannot address that kind of comment – made a special report last year, 2012, which clearly states that extreme events over the next 20-30 years will be dominated by natural climatic variations. Once again, there's no progress party invents, or I spin it out. So it's a fact that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change uses. It is strange that you choose not to go into the type of referenced note that refers to research. That doesn't mean that as a society, we shouldn't be preparing and planning for the worst possible events, because I always think we have to – in any case – do that. The Progress Party also follows up financially, with appropriations, in the revised national budget, where we propose to allocate 250 million. to clean up infrastructure damage following the flood in Eastern Europe in May. I hear some representatives trying to link this to research in a little creative way. I find it strange that the big message chooses to rely on out-of-date research. When referring to sea level rises, one also chooses to rely on old research — from 2008, revised in 2009 — which does not take sufficient account of land-use after the last ice age and which, moreover, has totally disregarded the gravity effect of large ice-melting in Greenland. It is – what to say – a somewhat poor attempt to present things that are worse than they are. Researchers today – research anno 2013 – in clear text that, on the contrary, we can risk referring to Oslo, Tromsø and Trondheim in parts of the country, at the end of this century may be in the situation that there has been no rise in sea level but a lowering of sea level. These are underlying actual research results. Then you have to be a little careful about exaggerating the effect of sea level rise. Just one point in the debate: it is important to be sober, it is important not to exaggerate – but to plan for the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2933	Most of us believe that we are standing here discussing the consequences of man-made climate change. In 2006, the so-called Stern report concluded that the cost of adapting to the temperature increase would be between 5 pst. and 20 pst. of the global gross domestic product, while it would cost 1 pst. slowing global emissions if it is done in time. That time is currently running out. The emissions of greenhouse gases that have already occurred are so large that we can hardly prevent a temperature increase up to two degrees. At the moment, many people claim that we now have emissions that give full speed towards five to six degrees of heating. At the same time, we have limited knowledge of the possibility and cost of protecting ourselves from the effects of such an increase in temperature. The Stern report concludes that reducing emissions is simpler and cheaper than adapting to the consequences of the temperature increase. So this could be a discussion about the Progress Party, which doesn't believe in man-made changes. I mention the calculation from the Stern report because we have had some debates today where the Progress Party has not been alone, but together with two other major parties in fighting for increased oil extraction, and thus increased greenhouse gas emissions. The government says it makes use of high climate projections when analysing climate change. It's important to be led where. If you build a dike, the investments are totally wasted if the dike is only nearly high enough to stop the flood. I would rather be sure that this poem is loud enough than say, like the Advancement Party, that you should not exaggerate. We get more extreme rainfall, more and more storms, more floods and more rapids. Places that have been safe for hundreds of years will become uninhabitable. The complex infrastructure of our society is vulnerable in terms of electricity supply, telecommunications, roads, water supply and sewerage. A special challenge — mentioned by several here — is flooding due to increased rainfall, possibly raised sea level or storm floods. The sewerage network is often one of the largest investments that municipalities have. But it's usually not dimensioned for what we can expect in the future. Therefore, it is good that the government now proposes to set down a sample to look at measures and framework conditions for increased quantities of excess water. That's good and necessary. The main points of the Communication are that we need knowledge of climate change locally and that everyone has a responsibility for adaptation. It concerns individuals, enterprises, municipalities, counties and countries. In particular, climate change must be a premise for municipal planning. The government has announced that it will provide a government planning guideline for this. Environmental competence in municipalities is important. Here are the clear challenges. A 2010 study shows that 70 pst. by environmental managers in municipalities have part-time positions or use less than 50 pst. of working time on environmental issues and that only 60 pst. the relevant competence of the municipalities in the management of bio-diversity. Climate change is so rapid that many species cannot adapt, and we are at risk of a major loss of biodiversity. Nature already has an adjustment deficit. In order to provide robust natural environments, large and coherent protected areas, areas ‘which range from fjords to mountains or over several vegetation zones’ and forest protection areas ‘covering several vegetation zones’ are important. Not least wetlands and forests have a major impact on climate adaptation. We have recently had floods in the East, with dramatic consequences for those affected. No one can say that this is a flood that was caused by climate change, but what we can say is that the floods that rarely came are now coming much more often as a result of climate change. That some are affected by this is not the responsibility of the individual, but the responsibility of the collective – everyone – that the state must assume, and is prepared to join with insurance companies and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2954	The climate is changing. It requires political action. Still new research gives us a clear signal that the anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions are the source of climate change. We must therefore continue with an offensive climate policy, both here in the country and internationally. But regardless of whether we are closed down in the great climate cloud, we need to focus on the climate change that we already see signs of. More precipitation makes us increasingly exposed to flooding and slipping. The temperature is changing, and thus nature is changing. There is a great chance that many people who are sitting here in this hall will experience seeing an ice-free Arctic, something no human being has ever seen. Climate change challenges both biodiversity and food production. It challenges infrastructure and busses. We need to adapt to these changes. We are better off than many other countries on the globe when it comes to climate change adaptation, despite the fact that we have a demanding geography in this country. We have resources. We have knowledge of meeting the challenges, but it requires greater effort when it comes to monitoring, knowledge and action, as the government suggests. Municipalities must have a good overview of their area and the risks that may exist in different areas. Water flow and discharge must be correctly dimensioned and one must be budded in extreme weather conditions. Warmer climate could prolong the growing season for food production. On the other hand, floods, breeds and large amounts of rainfall could threaten the area used for the production of food, both here in the country and elsewhere in the world. That food security is part of national preparedness is therefore particularly important. We see increased focus on e.g. Emergency storage facilities for cereals, both at home and internationally. Maintaining and strengthening self-sufficiency is, in the view of the Centre Party, an important climate adaptation measure. Drinking water is another area that it is important to ensure, in view of climate change. We are all aware of how central the supply of clean water is for all inhabitants. Local authorities have a particularly important role to play in this area. At the same time, it is important that municipalities and countries play a part in the process of raising knowledge and capacity. The plan guidelines that the government has announced are an important step in that direction. Similarly, you can set a selection to deal with the problem of overwatering. It is important that the good work done by the government in the areas of Flemish and tailor-made construction continues and is strengthened. I can't do that to have a very small visit to the Progress Party: this message is something more than that a pre paper on extreme weather events in the future, as we have done up until now. This is a warning of an increased effort – that we are in several extreme weather cases, that we are staying at higher temperatures and increasing rainfall. That's what this message is about. So I hope the Progress Party is aware of the underlying premises when we accept this message. Then you can have a different view of what leads to climate change, as the Progress Party and the representative Amundsen spent a lot of time here from the pulpit. I let myself be fascinated by the fact that the Progress Party in this matter has a comment that refers to the United Nations Climate Panel, and from this pulpit makes a great point of defending the climate panel's conclusions at this one point. But the main conclusion of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a denial. To use an image: it is like focusing on single verses in the big book, without believing in the soundness of the book. Let's now enjoy that we're largely regrouping the setting in this case, and then we get the chance to discuss the climate issue itself in the next case, I guess, and then I also expect that we will get some considerations from the parties that aim to cooperate with the Progress Party the coming period, whether or not the policy in this area will lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e2980	If I'm not going to answer that challenge right now, at least I'm going to tell the representative Sande that what he said about the big book was a picture I understood, and an image that I fully agree with. Most studies of the potential impacts of climate change assume that the average temperature on earth will increase by 2–3 degrees towards the end of this century. The capacity and ability to adapt to higher temperature rises, like 4-6 degrees Celsius, we have limited knowledge of. Even if an international consensus were to be reached on an ambitious policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the temperature would continue to rise to 2100. It is therefore necessary to prepare society for expected climate impacts that will come in any case. Norway is exposed to, with a long-distance coast and large high-mountain areas extending into the Arctic. Weather and climate affect almost all parts of society and is an important part of the everyday life of most people. The Norwegian people are therefore used to taking into account the weather, and have adapted over the centuries to a changing climate. Over the last century, there has been a warming trend in Norway, with levels of rainfall increasing by about 20 pst. Temperatures and rainfall in Norway are expected to continue to increase in the future. Climate adaptation is about recognising that climate change is changing, understanding its consequences and taking action to either prevent damage or exploit climate change potential. In Norway, higher temperatures can lead to longer growing seasons, which is initially positive in view of increased self-sufficiency. On the other hand, increased rainfall, race and flood can mean the loss of crops and arable land, thus threatening food production and self-sufficiency. We've seen examples of this spring. It is therefore important to focus more on the potential impacts of climate change on national food supply. Work on securing food soils needs to continue, and we need to focus more on the necessary emergency stores for cereals, both nationally and internationally. In particular, all infrastructure is exposed to climate change. Vulnerability in infrastructure and buildings plays a major role in how society is affected by climate change. The message points to the fact that a common challenge for large parts of the infrastructure and the building stock is maintenance lag. Climate change will reinforce the need for maintenance and increase the challenges associated with aftermath. This interdependence and the high level of maintenance lead to greater vulnerability to climate change. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the government in the Communication does not clarify state responsibilities for climate adaptation. It is not clear who is to be the authority in key areas such as flooding and sea level rise, which is a clear weakness in the notification. Today, at least eight departments are responsible for different parts of work on natural hazards and climate adaptation. While the NVE has a clearly defined responsibility for prevention and protection against river flooding and migration, no such responsibility for sea level rise and flooding has been defined. Lack of clarification of state coordination responsibilities and professional responsibility contribute to making adaptation work of municipalities more difficult. Therefore, it is urgent to clarify the state responsibility for sea level rise and flooding. Climate change is increasing the need to bet on flood and discard prevention. We can never secure a hundred percent against future floods and avalanches, but reinforced efforts to prevent them can reduce the damage and reduce the size of new floods and escapes. In response to the Committee, the Ministry announces that an overall review of the provisions of the Law on Natural Damage relating to Protection will be carried out. The Christian People's Party believes that this legislative committee should be set up immediately, and that there should be an expert committee that can carry out a comprehensive legislative change that clarifies the responsibilities of the municipalities and the rights of housing owners in terms of flood and step-by-step prevention. Today there are unclear legal states, which have led to a number of legal cases. Some owners of dwellings will have to move in the future because the land becomes unsuitable and dangerous as residential property due to increased flood and mud hazards. It is particularly important to clarify responsibilities and rights in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3008	Climate change is already being observed. There is an increasing number of incidents of extreme weather, and the extent of damage and the cost of natural damage are increasing significantly — both globally and at national level. Norway is fortunate and has competence and good conditions to adapt to the changes, but we too will be able to experience unexpected consequences and very critical combinations of different extremes — extremes we have not foreseen today. Society therefore needs to be made more robust in order to be able to handle the unexpected. The preparedness for various events such as floods and strides must be clearly strengthened, but in the process of adaptation to climate change we must also prepare for much more serious and existing challenges and consequences that affect fundamental conditions, such as: collapses in marine ecosystems or extremes affecting the ability of our or our trading partners to produce and provide food. Climate change acts as an intensification of existing vulnerabilities and increases maintenance set-aside. Climate adaptation is essential. There's no defeat or sign that we're giving up the climate fight. Climate cuts must always be the most important, but adaptation is essential to ensure life and health and to preserve the environment, values and infrastructure. Climate adaptation is about good natural and resource management and maintaining good quality infrastructure, construction and other values. However, there is a urgent need for adaptation efforts. The municipalities will play a very central role. The lack of resources in climate adaptation work and the unclear or lack of a comprehensive national climate adaptation strategy lead to responsibilities powdering between different sectors and between levels of governance – state, county and municipality – and between public and private responsibilities. It is still the owner to maintain and secure its own infrastructure, construction and assets. The focus must be on local prevention. Prevention is socially viable and local action needs to be taken. This does not necessarily involve increased appropriations, but increases in local capacity for good municipal plans, planning and construction processes and ROS analyses. Many municipalities struggle to follow this up. Climate adaptation does not change liability. As in other social security activities, it is based on the principles of responsibility, proximity and equality. It is the people involved and responsible who have to deal with the effects themselves. However, it is important that the State not only provides better information and knowledge but also assists with professional guidance and a mechanism/mechanism for financing climate adaptation measures. However, the government needs to clarify roles and responsibilities – including in climate adaptation. It is regrettable that the government has not yet cleared up central government responsibilities, which the representative, Mr Ropstad, was also involved in. The responsibility for overwater should be added to the NVE, which already has State responsibility for flooding and migration. The postponements and the vacuum the government has now created can be costly. There is no excuse for the lack of clarification of responsibility that a new legal selection has been set up to look at the surface of the water. On the contrary, it would be beneficial for the legal work that the responsibility for the matter had a clear anchoring in a government trade union/governmental body. Responsibility for overwater should be added to the NVE, despite the objections and concerns of the Minister of Oil and Energy that there will be too much water and too little energy in Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate, NVE. Finally, I would like to raise the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3029	The representative Borghild Tende has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3032	Climate policy is primarily – and most importantly – about cutting greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, we need to adapt to the climate change that is here, here and now, and to those that will come in the future. This is necessary because the world does not have the good fortune to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change is so rapid that many species do not expect to adapt to changes. No climate models have predicted the loss of snow and ice in the Arctic in recent years. The changes affect Arctic life, and with longer growing seasons new species are added. With a more open Arctic, we must also ensure that new actions are balanced against the concerns of the environment. Extreme rainfall causes great damage. Precipitation over Norway has increased by about 20 pst. over the last 100 years, and the rainfall is more intense than before. We must be forewarned that this development will continue. It'll be warmer. The lowlands could be snow-free during this hundred years. Society needs to adapt to a changing risk of events such as flooding and extreme weather, as well as to more gradual changes in nature that weaken the environment and people's health. Nature-based industries, such as agriculture, fisheries and tourism, will have a new framework. It is important to capture the width of the challenges. It is imperative to provide knowledge and keep an overview of climate change and what it means. The challenges must be met by an active policy. This spring, we've once again witnessed dramatic pictures of flooding. One cannot determine that such a flood is caused by man-made climate change alone. But the risk of flooding resulting from extreme rainfall may increase. We can get flooded in new places as a result of a changed weather pattern. It creates challenges, and in the message we do good for how to meet them. Over the years, climate change adaptation has been a priority in this area. Knowledge development has been focussed. Research, active use of networks around municipalities, and targeted information and guidance have led many to work on climate adaptation. I want to link some special comments to the question of overwater. Precipitation poses a risk of flooding, especially in cities where water does not always detect natural discharges. The drain is not dimensioned to handle large amounts of rainwater. Good measures can reduce the risk of flooding, floods in cities and, at the same time, improve the quality of the urban environment. Good overwater management is about responsibilities and frameworks in Norwegian municipalities, and is about several demanding questions. To this end, we will set up a public distribution selection to assess the current legislation and make any proposals to improve the framework conditions for the management of municipalities when there is an increase in excess of water due to a changing climate. A normal life span for buildings is 78 years. In all decisions that are important in the long term, climate adaptation needs to be considered. When assessing how climate change can work, one must be responsible. Therefore, the government assumes that one should be based on high climate projections when climate change impacts are analysed. Municipalities are responsible for planning. Climate change is a new dimension for planning. Government powers premise. In the work on the message, many wanted clearer guidance and guidance on climate change adaptation in different areas of the municipalities. For municipal responsibilities and services such as land planning, water and sewerage and transport, the climate is an important factor. For this reason, the government has agreed to draw up a government planning guideline for the work of municipalities and counties on climate adaptation in land and community planning. The guideline shall be incorporated into the existing governmental climate and energy policy. Everyone has a responsibility for climate change adaptation. It applies to individuals, enterprises, municipalities, counties and countries. The State shall assume responsibility in its own territory and shall facilitate the free movement of others. Knowledge and tools are key words. Therefore, the government will strengthen the knowledge base for climate change adaptation through a more active monitoring, a continuation of climate change research and a development of the national climate services centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3064	The main message is based on what is obviously obsolete when it comes to sea level rises. We know, as a fact, that the rise in sea level is not going to be as dramatic – regardless of the future scenario – as one has previously operated on. The Department also admits that research from 2008, partly adjusted from 2009, has been used as a basis instead of taking new knowledge into account. The new knowledge is about landing after the last ice age — not least overlanding because of an effect that has not been estimated at all in the past, but which has been known for a long time, namely that gravity also affects how water is distributed on our planet. What is the reason why you choose to ignore the new knowledge? Is it because it is not as dramatic as previous research suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3071	It is true that the current figures are based on a report produced by the Bjerknescentrum in 2009. A number of new, both national and international, studies on future sea level rises have been published in recent years, with slightly different results. I know one of them - the one from the Mapping tool - that is specifically referred to in the option. I think the closest we can get a status that everyone is about, we will get in a short while, when the IPCC presents its next main report, which will give a summary of the total research in this area – and give us a picture of where we stand. We've referred to one of the later authoritative sources, but I totally agree that a broader update is necessary. When I smiled, it was a little because of the touching care representative Amundsen had that not the very last thing in the field of climate research was well represented. I would ask him to take this care of all future climate debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3080	With this message, the government has provided a good description of the challenges we face. Unfortunately, it does not provide many of the necessary answers, namely clarification of the responsibilities of different directorates, departments and levels of government. But I'm not going to ask you that. I'm going to ask about the fact that the NVE has concluded that there are 120 municipalities that need to be prioritised for hazard monitoring for different types of steps. But with today's appropriations, the NVE is able to carry out hazard monitoring in two to five municipalities per year. Does the Council of State think that's good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3089	First of all, I think this message clears important responsibilities – announces processes to clarify others that it is complex to find out how we are going to handle – and also provides new tools for those who are going to work with the different places. I would like to stress that there is no field in which an authority is responsible. It is a field that is characterized by the fact that everyone must have a responsibility for it to function, and it is often more complex. So to the last one, there's no doubt that there are major challenges in that area. The appropriations for the NVE’s work on flood protection and screening have increased in recent years, but there is a need to strengthen that work, including in the furtherance – I agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3098	It is good to hear that the Council of State agrees with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party that there is a need to escalate the allocations for flood and rapid prevention in the coming years – as he just said – for the government parties did not join that remark in the vote. So the Council of State says that this message responds to the challenges we face, and that there is not one authority that should be responsible. I fully agree that there is not one authority that should be responsible, but the responsibility must be placed. The government here says that you have to come back to where the responsibility is to be placed. But here is a big message about climate adaptation. What better opportunity do you have to put the responsibility where it should be, than in this big message? The experience we have gained in recent years with large floods shows that there is a need for a quick clarification of this issue. So the question is, why haven't you done this before?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3105	We warn that in a short time we will return to the coordinating responsibility, which we have just added to the DSB. It's because there are so extremely many ethers and level involved. It's complex how we're going to get the best possible coordination of it, and what ultimate solution we can get. But important issues of coordination and how to place responsibilities otherwise go far beyond that. When it comes to how municipalities can manage their planning work, we alert tools for some planning guidelines and boost knowledge. The problem that I myself might have been surprised at in the work here, was how little remarkable it was in the amount of water. There is an urgent need to go through a complex piece of legislation and strengthen it. So in a range of areas, we're forced to clear up. Then we will quickly come back with the final explanation of where the government thinks that the coordination responsibility should lie in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3114	The left has also made some proposals in this matter. The aim of the proposals is that we believe that society needs to be made more robust to deal with the unexpected. In short, the proposals want to give additional responsibility to the NVE, the DSB and the Environment Directorate. What assessments do the Council of State make of these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3119	It points here to the three perhaps most important underlying etats in that work — there are others too, but at least three of them are, most importantly. Everyone has significant responsibilities within this field today. But I think the biggest challenge now is actually not to think which box we're going to put things into, but how we get this fundamental question, which will shape almost all of the community planning in the next hundred years, to become a daily part of the work at all levels. Planning and building offices in all Norwegian municipalities, health authorities and the next national transport plans to be submitted must be characterised. One can go through almost sector by sector. How does one get the competence to permeate everyone? That's the core challenge, not exactly which boxes you should put things in – even though all the etats are of course very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3126	Last year, the IPCC came up with a report called «Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation». What is interesting about this special report is that it clearly indicates that the next 20–30 years will cause extreme events due to climate change and the origin of natural climatic variations. Thus, there is no basis for drawing the extremes of future climate change that you often do, and which I think unfortunately wrongly characterizes the debate and perhaps scares people more than you have good of. Yes, you have to plan for the worst, but you might want to have a little bit of audacity in everything. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3135	I'm a follower of eugenicity, I can say. Then it is tempting for me to propose to conclude an agreement with the representative Amundsen. I promise to take over the knowledge he takes up in the Greatness Chair and ask me about – in this case I didn't know it, in the previous case, a short week ago, I knew about it, and let it impress me – if he promises to take the knowledge of the next main report of the IPCC into it when it comes in a few months. Now he nods, and I choose to interpret it as if he agrees with me that there is some kind of intentional agreement between us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3150	The representative will not be given the opportunity to answer that question, but it is certainly correct. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3166	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3175	The Committee refers to the climate agreement adopted by the Stortinget in June last year and the comments made by the parties in the vote. A number of measures were adopted here to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The proposals in Document 8:132 S – the proposal for a representative we are now considering – deal largely with issues that were discussed and adopted in the context of the climate agreement. It is difficult in time to be sure that I come up with all the proposals, but I assume that the proposers will also present their proposals. The majority – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV – refer to a letter from the Minister for the Environment, pointing out that the government is doing well in implementing the climate agreement. We assume that this work continues. The entire Committee is pleased that the government is following up on the promotion of a national cross-sectoral bioenergy strategy. The Committee also takes note of the fact that Gassnova’s work on assessing CO2 clean-up at the Longyearbyen coal-fired power station will have to await the decision of the local government and the Ministry of Justice and Defence. But that's also the end of the consensus in the comments. A number of proposals are therefore promoted, both from an overall opposition and from parts of the opposition. The majority's attitude is that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the protocol, because we do not disagree with the many individual proposals, but precisely because the government is doing well to implement them. One of the measures requested several times from the opposition is aid measures from Enova for phase-out of oil fires in households. This proposal for a representative is also called for. This is now in place. The government has also announced that it will come back to the State budget with a concrete approach in terms of instruments to trigger significant energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion in private households, cf. decisions in the climate agreement. There is a disagreement regarding the climate, renewable energy and energy conversion fund device, which was reinforced by 10 billion. kr in the State budget for 2013. The disagreement is a rematch, but the money is now placed as an account loan in line with the Storting decision in the climate agreement. The proposal also proposes a review of car charges. It is in the opinion of the majority in the state budget, but there has been a good trend towards making it more profitable to choose zero-emission or low-emission cars. Coming down to the average age of cars in the EU will soon mean that we have to lower the car charge so much that the tax advantage of an electric car is so low that the electric car sales stop. A sustainable transport policy must lead to a reduction in car use, even if emissions-free private cars are also involved. It is therefore important that the CO2 tax reflects the climate costs and that the user charge reflects other costs related to car use. There was time out. I just want to comment that...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3200	But no further comment should be made after the time has elapsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3203	The representatives of Ropstad, Astrup and Tenden have presented a document on 8 proposals containing a number of proposals – proposals that have already been largely adopted by the Stortinget in the climate agreement, the climate communication and in the national transport plan. Therefore, I will first refer to the treatment of Innst by Storting. 391 S for 2011–2012 and yesterday’s treatment of NTP. Together with hunger and poverty, climate change is one of the most important challenges facing the world, and I said in the last case that for the Workers' Party, the objectives that we have committed ourselves to in the climate agreement are at the heart of our climate policy. I note that the proposals we are discussing now are proposals that have been dealt with to a large extent before, and it also shows that there is a significant gap between the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the one hand and the Advance Party on the other. In the vote on the climate adaptation message that we have just debated, the Progress Party also stands out from the comment that points to anthropogenic climate change, and it is also so that some of us who are here today spent a great deal of the last week in debates and media to debate that the Progress Party would not adopt Kyoto Phase 2. The Ministry's comments on the proposal provide a good response to why the various proposals from Ropstad, Astrup and Tenden are being followed up in government policy today, and therefore I do not want to spend time reviewing the proposals. This has also been a debate that has taken place in public space. I would nevertheless mention that the government is following up the climate agreement and the climate announcement. Through the creation of the Climate Change Fund, renewable energy and energy conversion, the engagement with urban environment agreements in NTP, intercity trains, the conversion of car charges and several other measures, the government delivers on the measures adopted in the climate agreement. The government is also making significant international efforts in the climate issue, and the commitment to the climate and forest initiative is an example of a major impact action. I understand that the representatives want to draw up a climate debate in Stortinget, and I know that these three representatives are genuinely concerned about the climate issue. It is therefore also strange when they intend to cooperate with the Progress Party on Climate Policy in the future. But after I heard the Council of State and the representative Amundsen instead, there may be hope in the hanging loop that an agreement of intent between them might be fulfilled at a given time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3218	As the only party, the Progress Party did not participate in the climate agreement. It wasn't our choice, it was the strong desire of the red-green parties that led to our failure. But I hear reference to the proposals and debate on man-made climate change, and then the Progress Party is presented as a problem, that it will be completely impossible to relate to the Progress Party – which does not believe enough in man-made climate change, in the eyes of some representatives – in a new government constellation after the next elections. This is, with respect to reporting, completely wrong, because then you don't see in the document. There is a 16-proposal document here, but of the 16 proposals, the Progress Party – which has been presented earlier in the debate as if we do not believe in anthropogenic climate change – supports eight of these proposals, because we believe that these are sensible measures. Eight out of 16 proposals, half, we support, while those who really believe in man-made climate change – yes, most of all, if you believe them yourself – the SV Party, do not support any of these proposals. First of all, it tells me quite a lot about the skin debate you have about man-made climate change, but also about the willingness to come up with good solutions. I think this document – we were not co-sponsors of it, it was the other bourgeois parties – illustrates in a good way that it is fully possible to come up with good solutions on the civil side. But we who do not believe enough in man-made climate change, according to SV in particular, are able to participate in sensible and good climate action. Those who believe more in man-made climate change than all others — most of them — do not support any of the proposals. I'm just recording it, and it might say a little bit about how this climate debate sometimes develops. If you really believe in SVs, you should say, apocalypse-like description of future visions due to man-made climate change, why aren't you willing to put in place more measures? There is here a great distance between words and action that is hard to understand from the outside. But I expect that SV probably has good explanations for that, which they use to have on everything else. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3227	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3230	Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. If we're going to reduce emissions by 50-85 pst. global by 2050, we need to make technological quantum leaps that decouple economic growth from the growth of greenhouse gas emissions. Refusing the world’s poor prosperity and economic prosperity is not an alternative. As more are promised out of poverty and the global middle class is growing, energy consumption will increase dramatically over the next few years. The challenge for the world is to make energy consumption sustainable. Norway's challenge is to take our share of responsibility for developing solutions that not only help to realise a green national economy but can also have international significance. 80 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions come from the combustion of coal, oil and gas. Renewable energy is now experiencing violent growth in many parts of the world. It is positive, and as production costs continue to fall, and technological development increases the efficiency of energy sources such as solar cells and wind turbines, renewable energy will be competitive with fossil energy sources increasingly. Even today, large solar parks without subsidies are being built in many parts of the world. Despite significant growth in renewable energy, it is difficult to imagine a transition to a low-carbon society without the significant role of CO2 capture and storage. There are 5 000 to 6 000 large point emissions in the world. In 2050, most of them must either be replaced by renewable alternatives or be cleaned. As a major oil and gas producer, Norway has both a responsibility and a self-interest in helping to develop cost-effective technologies for the capture and storage of CO2. A new coal-fired power plant on Svalbard and an assessment of the possibility of establishing an industrial treatment plant in Grenland will make a good contribution to Norway’s commitment to capture and storage, with significantly lower entry tickets than the full-scale project in Mongstad appears to have. Through the eco-innovation fund set up in the climate agreement last year, Norway has a unique opportunity to be a birth aid for new technological solutions that can help cut emissions both outdoors and at home. I'm glad that the opposition stands together to increase the yield from the Environmental Technology Fund to 4 pst., which will mean almost a doubling of the return from today's level. Norway is well placed to demonstrate that a climate-friendly modal shift is possible. Among the proposals that can contribute to this, public vehicles are required to run on CO2-free or CO2-neutral fuels by the end of 2018, to continue the benefits for alternative fuels by 2020, to require all new taxis, ferries, ferry and diesel trains to operate on emission-free or climate-neutral fuels by the end of 2022, and to change the charging system that premieres those who choose environmentally friendly vehicles to an even greater extent than now. I notice that the government parties do not share our ambition level in this area. Twice in the last eight years, the government has promoted climate announcements for the Storting, and both times the opposition has helped to improve and strengthen that policy. Now let's try again, it's a shame that the government parties won't join in. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Right and Christian People's Party have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3261	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3264	The last thing the Committee on Energy and the Environment has presented to the Stortingen during this period is about climate. There's good symbolism in it. No other thing that we've been focusing on in this period, points so far forward and can have such great consequences if, with our activity today, we change the climate, which our descendants have to adapt to. The centre part and the administrator's tank are suspended. We're going to leave the Earth in at least as good a condition as when we took over. A lot of people indicate that our generation will have a lot of problems with it. Unfortunately, several of the major environmental challenges have to be solved globally by those who come after us. But we can mean a difference. We're a small country, but we're rich in resources, and we're rich in knowledge and capital. Especially the fact that we have great wealth as a result of the extraction and sale of fossil energy resources gives us a moral responsibility to contribute internationally to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We can and should dare to play a spearhead role internationally in global climate change, and our legitimacy out there depends on our willingness to change national policies to move from fossil to renewable energy society. I am proud that Norway under the red-green government has taken important steps in the climate-friendly direction, and the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right will have a reward for being untiring participants in the process of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The value of a broad political consensus in these areas is great. The proposals on the table are, in part, also proposals taken from the common platform on which we stand and which we are about to be filled by the government. We can definitely, both position and opposition, get even bolder. Action from the climate agreement is important, but the measures that we and other nations are putting in place today are not in line with the challenges we face. We are a small country, but we can contribute more. One of the areas in which we can contribute is to use even more resources to develop good solutions that other countries can take advantage of in their climate work to reduce their emissions. Now representatives from the Christian People's Party and the Left come after me. I challenge them once again – that is probably the last possibility – on how they see that the work on reducing greenhouse gases is being given that a strenuous effort is being made to get a political plurality and a government that will design its solutions at the intersection between the Progress Party and the Right. It might be interesting to know. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation over this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3283	I can start by answering the challenge. It may be believed that the main problem in Norwegian policy, or in the fight against climate change, is the Progress Party. I'd say it's very wrong. The main problem is that we who believe in climate change do not do enough. I'd say it's pretty absurd to stand here. Now it's eight years of majority government. Looking at climate change emissions, they amounted to 54.3 million tonnes in 2005. In 2012, the estimate is 52.9 million tonnes, i.e. emissions have decreased by perhaps 2.5 pst. That's the problem. The problem is that we have a government that is concerned about climate change, which is trying to combat climate change but is unable to implement enough measures. We're far from achieving the targets. In the Kyoto commitments, we would cut emissions – or we could increase by 1 pst. Today we are 5.8 pst. – 5.2 pst. for 2013 – over emissions compared to 1990. Sweden and Denmark have done much more. They're way ahead. Denmark has set new and offensive targets. They have the goal of cutting up to 40 pst, and they want to reach them, because they've already cut 20 pst. in comparison with 1990. I spend my time talking about this, but it's important points, because it's general. That is why I am not afraid that there will be a new government, because it is precisely the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right that has pushed the government into two climate settlements, in 2008 and 2012, that has got more concrete commitments, and that has improved messages that were quite scary when they came to the Stortinget. That is why I think it is quite absurd that we are here today. It is referred to that several of the proposals are from the climate agreement, and then it is very special that we have to stand up a year later. I remember the case of support for the conversion of oil fires. That said the government parties were good enough in winter – it was fulfilled. Then they came with support of approx. NOK 25 000 now. It was good, but it should come a lot sooner, and really even more. See, for example: in Oslo, where the aid is up to NOK 50000. The climate law was only to determine the appropriateness. Not even that's clear in a year. The biogas strategy has not been able to file a case, even though it has come from the department a while ago. From the Christian People's Party I am pleased that it now seems to be moving towards a shift, because I am sure that with the Christian People's Party, Left and Right at the top, you will have much more offensive policies in this field than today's government has led. We have shown that through several proposals here, and not least through the work done through two climate settlements in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3301	I agree that this is one of the biggest climate challenges we face as a planet, but there are also enormous opportunities in the climate deal. The left has twice taken the initiative to get a climate deal, and twice we've managed to get it done. Twice has the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left pressed the government in a much greener direction than it was in the proposal they put forward. Then it's the debate about who believes in things, and who does things. I think it's a lot worse if you think there's climate change and you don't want to do anything about it than you don't believe in them. I want to make a little quote just to show you how this is. The quotation is as follows: ‘... unilateral measures in only one country or region will not solve the problem. In the worst case, unilateral measures may lead to the transfer of production and increased emissions to other countries’. For me, it's the favorite quote from the so-called perspective message from this government. This is the policy that this government stands for. I have to admit that I said that the Progress Party was on another globe when they went against the Kyoto 2 agreement. What was the reason for the Progress Party to go against the Kyoto 2 agreement? They would not agree to an agreement where not all countries are involved, because that means that the emissions are only transferred to another country. For me, the reasons of the Progress Party are quite similar to those of the government. I think they sound exactly the same. That's why I don't see that much difference. What I know is that if the left gets to sit at the table, there's going to be other solutions. When the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have negotiated a climate agreement here in Stortinget, there have been other solutions. We've managed to push it in the right direction. The left will vote for all the proposals that lie here today. We're happy for everyone who does. We're sorry for anyone who doesn't vote for any of these proposals. But we have to be a little honest: the problem is that this government can't have the pressure on climate work. The point is you have to have someone who really wants to do something. We are now in Oslo: see what's done with public transport, see what's done with other emissions, see what's done with the entire Oslo car park, see what's done with energy saving measures, and see what's done with oil fires – see how you've managed to change an entire city. I don't think I'm taking my mouth too full when I say that the Right Party and the Advance Party have not always stood and cheered on it. But we've got it done. We've had it because the left has always had a finger in the game.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3325	First, I would like to say that it is positive that there is a fundamental agreement in the Committee that the climate agreement is being followed up and that it should be followed up. I think you can divide the suggestions that are on the table – at least as I see it – into four categories. Part of them – the largest category – are issues that are mentioned in the climate agreement, which are under work but are not finished: biogas, climate legislation, reward scheme, land flow, to give some examples. In a similar category, but not quite the same, the direction of the climate agreement is negotiated, but there are also proposals. For example, there are several suggestions about running gear, where we have an 85-degree target. In this context, proposals will be made for a single instrument within its framework, as well as proposals on an instrument for the replacement of oil fires. There I am a little uncertain about the interpretation, but I understood it as if one wanted more than what was presented, but it is possible that the representative Roppstad’s posts should be interpreted in a different way. Then there are two more categories. The one debt long-term imposition towards 2020. The government's party and I think it's too early to do it now. The question of the user charge should be evaluated. Whether she's going to stand by 2020, I think I'm too early to decide now. The same applies if we are to say that CO2 capture and storage will be ready by 2020. I thought it was too early to adopt it in Stortinget now. And then there's a couple of points of real discomfort. The issue of tax exemptions has already been mentioned from the pulpit. To put it that way: there is a relatively well-known example of a lack of coherence between the right and left sides of the policy on which instruments work best. It also applies to the question of CO2 cleaning on Svalbard: not necessarily if that's right, but if it's right to adopt it now, all the time we've seen Gassnova do a job of going through some potential possibilities. I think it would be wrong to adopt it before that study is completed, and before we have the necessary professional basis. I would just like to say briefly that since the 2007 peak, the picture is that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are falling – a clear decline since then. We now have the lowest level since 1995, except for the financial crisis year. It is realistic to achieve the 2020 target, but it will require an even greater annual decline. But with what's in the climate agreement, it's a realistic goal. Since the agreement is that the climate agreement is a floor and not a roof, we also agree that we can do even more if there is a need for it. So we are fulfilling the Kyoto agreement – to the point and the point – through EU quotas and our own actions in Norway. What we do beyond that of CDM allowances comes to the top of our compliance with the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3351	The Council of State said in and of course a lot in its contribution that it is worth addressing, but one of the things he said was that it is too early to decide that we should continue the exemption from user charges for alternative fuels by 2020. How long does predictability actually mean that we are going to have for those actors that produce alternative fuels, for those who want to put it into service — for example. Norwegian municipalities that might consider establishing biogas plants? Is that reasonable for half a year, one year, two years, three years? Or is maybe seven years a pretty good horizon for that kind of investment decision? Now we know from the biodiesel thing that the government likes shorter time horizons than that. They will open facilities in May and introduce new framework conditions in September or October. But what does the Council of State think about this? How long are we going to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3358	I mean first of all that we're going to carry out the evaluation we're doing, and have the knowledge base on the table before we decide to proceed. We have now had a system that has given us a time horizon, just as we now have a system for electric cars for 2017. When one introduces such schemes, I believe it is important that there is not an automatic way in which all the support schemes or exemptions we have should always last forever. The point here is to drive innovation and change – let's call it an introduction offer. There may be good arguments to continue with the scheme, but I think we should carry out the thorough evaluation that is announced, before we make a final decision about it. The exact time for that to happen, I think we'll get back to. It's quite natural to see it in conjunction with a budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3367	To clarify the challenge of the Council of State on the first proposal to support the conversion and replacement of oil fires, I can simply answer: the proposal for a representative was delivered shortly before the new scheme came into force. But what I clarified in my post was that it took a year from the conclusion of the climate agreement until it came, and that the Council of State in winter was well pleased with the possibilities that lay in Enova. At the same time, we have compared to Oslo, where I think they have better arrangements than what I perceive lies at the root of Enova. But at least it is good that it has come. The government should be very grateful for that. My question really goes a little bit on the same track, because we are clear that at least we do not experience that the climate agreement is overfilled. The council says it should be the floor. I think we're in the basement a little bit, and we should move on. The perspective statement says that emissions are going to be relatively stable by 2020, but I do not think it is with integrated measures from the climate agreement. Then the question is, if this should come into force now – it should have come into force now – why is it not incorporated in the perspective message?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3376	The answer to the last question is that the climate agreement was agreed in Stortinget – I think it was in June last year. When it was done, one had to create the professional basis for what it would look like, etc. The perspective message and the work on it went on the same autumn and was made in winter – it was probably in February or something like that. This means that neither the government budget for this year nor the perspective communication has incorporated the professional basis. It's a significant and great work in which the SSB and others are involved. Then it's important to be aware that what's happened in the last few years is that we've systematically broken our expectations and reference paths in the face of the rise. We're now much lower. After the projections, we were going to be far higher than where we are today. It's breaking the trend that's the whole question. I am pleased that one is happy with the support schemes. I think very strongly that we debated this last year, and that we are just notifying that it would come. That's why it wasn't in the state budget, but now it's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3385	I record that the Council of State is very satisfied with the evolution of climate emissions. I checked the state of the environment, and there I see that emissions in 2005 were 54.3 million tonnes. So it went up to 56 million tonnes in 2007, and then it's gone down to 52.9 million tonnes in 2012, i.e. a decrease in about eight years. 2.5 pst. We're going to achieve the 30 pst goal by 2020, or 20 pst. in Norway. Is a reduction of 2.5 pst. in the course of eight years, what is the satisfaction of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3392	I didn't use the word'satisfied' either, but I said what the facts are. The fact is that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are rising and rising until 2007, for example. throughout the decade the Christian People's Party ruled and dominated Norway. So it's gone down since that. There was an additional decline in the financial crisis year, then up again, but the trend has been slowing down after that. But as I also said in my post, it must be a stronger annual decline if we are to achieve our 2020 target – not massively stronger, but somewhat stronger. There's the actual ratio of this. That is after all to judge the basis for achieving the goal because we have adopted new, strong measures in the climate agreement. But for us who think this is one of the biggest questions of our time, ambitions should be as big a cut in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions as possible and necessary. This is why, for example: what we can get further on the transport and petroleum protocols also important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3399	I notice that the opposition of the Council of State – and he said so far also in his statement – is in favour of the kind of action that concerns tax relief, among other things. is also opposed to measures aimed at continuing the exemption from the excise duty on alternative fuels until 2020. In other words, it is a type of measure that is counter-productive to the Norwegian state. And then I ask myself the question: you always stress that this is the most important single thing in the world, the biggest challenge we're facing. But perhaps this is just the second most important thing, because the most important thing – if you're going to take this seriously – is to secure the state's income? For the type of proposal that you are opposed to, then, the type of proposal that reduces the income of the state but that would benefit the climate. Can the Councils give an assessment of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3404	In the proposals we adopted in the climate agreement last year, and in the message and in what we are doing in the climate, billions – to put it that way – roll because it's important money use. SV, and the government, are dependent on both a lot of measures that cost a lot of money, and those who withdraw money. I mean, the representative Amundsen turned it upside down. On the contrary, the Progress Party is consistently opposed to any measure that may impose an additional cost, but is dependent on measures that allow one to cut taxes or pay more money. And what we know works in climate policy is the combination of things that put a price on emissions, that is, measures that increase the cost of releasing CO2, combined with supporting the incentive for conversion – whether it is for renewable energy or for other types of transport. That's the combination that needs to be used if one wants to get results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3415	The Council of State said that there were a number of measures in the transport sector he could not go for, because we had a target of 85 g CO2/km for new passenger cars in the climate agreement in 2020. However, the Council of State agrees that the public sector has a responsibility to go ahead and to contribute to the creation of a market for environmentally friendly alternatives by, for example: municipalities, county councils and state agencies use environmentally friendly vehicles that run on CO2-free or CO2-neutral fuels? And if he agrees, why can't the government then agree to a proposal that public authorities are just demanding that new vehicles that they acquire should go on this type of environmentally friendly fuel by the end of 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3429	I think it's absolutely brilliant the work that's actually being done today in a lot of municipalities around Norway, in state agencies and other places to get zero emission vehicles, whether it's electric cars or plug-in hybrids or a combination of these. And I want to add: in the private sector, there are now several examples of a systematic thinking in this direction, and that's important and correct. So my point was more that what we were about in the climate agreement, and that was in the message, is that it's a superior goal to reach down to 85 grams on average. I believe that the most important thing is that there must be a wide range of tools that take us there, and presumably it is that those who are most effective, those who are the fastest – and with at least the use of money and the greatest climate effect – can take us there, and that we do not know and should not control in detail what kind of instruments this is. The most important thing we do from the state's side is the charging system, which we see has produced enormous results only in the last five to six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3436	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3441	I understand that the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that the government is not doing enough, and that it is going to be different when the Left sits at the table, but the Left and Christian People's Party's Act, is just putting in a government with the newly created Climate Host Right in cooperation with the climate negator Progress Party. If it can get so much better, we'll have to discuss that! I signed with the representative Amundsen's post, and I only agree with one thing he said in the post, namely that SV has a good explanation, which we tend to have. I agree with those who say that we should not spend as much time on Amundsen as climate scientists. I think it overshadows a much more interesting climate debate with much more important conflicts, and after all, Amundsen is more interesting as a politician than a climate researcher. It is proposed that the draft representative be annexed to the Minutes, precisely because the government is working to implement most of these proposals. The amundsen challenged me, and I can say that I agree with the intention of all the proposals. I disagree with the arrangement in one of them, namely with tax deductions, where we have other instruments that we believe are more effective, and that means that SV agrees with twice as much as the Progress Party agrees. I can promise that the Progress Party will never turn SV on climate ambitions. This shows, not least, the situation that the 2013 Climate Change elections just did, where the Progress Party came to a last stop. The left and the left came first.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3452	First: In the case of choirs, in fact, I and a representative from the Right Party are to the most environmentally friendly representatives of the Storting – just so that's said! I want to make a point: in today's debate, I think it is quite incredible to listen to the Right, Left and Christian People's Party – now that they want to join forces – how they have dampened the rhetoric and criticism of the Progress Party in climate and environmental policy compared to the past, in order to appear to agree before the elections. I had never thought I should hear the representative Trine Skei Grande, or the representative Ropstad, as humiliated in relation to the Progress Party and their climate policy as in today's debate. Yes, they actually defend the position of the Progress Party. The Left and Christian People's Party, which wants to appear as environmental parties, has given the environment and climate on the boat to gain government power. If the policy of the Progress Party is not so crazy, yes, the government's perspective statement is not either, as the representative Skei Grande pointed out earlier. Finally, I will return the thanks of the committee chairman for good cooperation and for good debates in the committee as long as I have been with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3461	Climate camouflage: Sometimes I know frustration when I see such crews, because I've learned not to listen to what I'm saying, but rather to look at what I'm doing. I have – just to answer the representative Irene Johansen – no need to defend the Progress Party. On the contrary, we disagree fundamentally on many issues, and I think it is sad that they do not recognise man-made climate change any more, that they are not willing to see that the major challenge needs to be addressed. But: When you look at today's map, with 16 proposals, I see that the Progress Party is at least going to support eight proposals, and if these eight proposals were adopted, yes, we would have come further, we would have come closer to climate goals. It has not been said that I agree with the Progress Party or that I need to defend the Advance Party, but at least it shows that in practice, in part of the case, we would get through more. I have a goal of coming to government, and the Christian People's Party's clear position is that we hope that it will be a centre-right government, where the focus is as much as possible in the Christian People's Party's policy. It would be an ambitious policy, and we, in the Storting, are pushing the government over and over again. Then it is also wrong to use a rating book that gives a lower right rating than the Working Party. Yes, I'm simply surprised. That doesn't mean I don't disagree with the Right in any of the cases, but who has pushed the policy further? Who made the first climate communication – where you could summarize the measures on a post-it note – more concrete? Yes, it was the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party. And so is the second climate notification. My frustration is no less, even though the Council of State stresses that you work with things. My impatience is the same. It's been one year since the climate communication was adopted. The Perspective Communication does not even refer to the target of reducing emissions in Norway by 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020, it only states: ‘From 2020, Norway shall take responsibility for reducing emissions corresponding to 30 pst. of own emissions in 1990.’» So we have to take responsibility for that. We're not just going to take responsibility for it and buy it free, we're going to take responsibility by taking a cut in Norway, and these measures would contribute to it. The last heartbreak is really just that that's what I think is so sorry, that the debate is just about accusing the Progress Party. There are radio debates and TV debates about that. Debates should be on what measures we need to take to implement them. That's what we put up to today, but instead, the only thing you get is a rinse-off back, and I'm tracking that attack is the best defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3484	I'm recording that the representative of Egeland is calling the Right a climate hosting. So this comes from a party that sits as part of a government that has a majority to present exactly what they want, and then implement it afterwards. And 'exactly what they want' is obviously not that much, because they've provided two big messages. Both were slaughtered by an overall environmental movement because they were toothless, little ambitious, little obligating and contained few concrete measures that would actually lead to real emission reductions. In that case, it will be very special to hear the representative of Egeland call the Right a climate hosting – we who have been drivers through two climate settlements, and we actually got measures in place that now contribute to emissions being far lower than what they would otherwise have been. Take, for example: The rainforest bet! Who suggested it? Yes, that's right. And in many other areas, we have been given binding measures, such as speeding up the environmental technology fund. We proposed to increase the rate of return – which we did not get through – in order to continue the benefits for zero-emission cars until 2017 and 50,000 cars. It was the opposition that promoted these proposals, the government did not come with this itself. So hearing that we're going to be a little bit ambitious and that we're a climate host from a party that obviously hasn't managed to deliver an ambitious environmental policy over the eight years they've had the opportunity to do it falls on their own unfairness. It actually doesn't help to say from the pulpit, as the representative of Egeland does, that there is too much intention in all the proposals. You actually have to vote for them too, and that's what the Progress Party says they will do for eight of the 16 proposals, while I record that neither the representative of Aegean nor anyone from his party or the government parties will support any of these proposals. So there's actually no doubt about who's moving the country in a green direction, and who's anchored in this process. We – Right – are drivers. We've made this government greener than it would otherwise be. We wanted to go further today. I record that we are not receiving any support for it, but as the Minister for the Environment said, the climate agreement is a floor. Well, we want to raise that floor. It's obviously not the government parties willing to join today, but maybe by another crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3499	What we are discussing now is mostly public documents. The government submitted a climate notification. Left presented its alternative climate message. The Left, Christian People's Party and Right agreed on 36 points, and the government met us at half. Had it been the Right, Left and Christian People's Party that would have made that climate announcement, we would have had 36 points of agreement at the bottom, which would have been much longer. All these are public documents that at least the media have had good access to, and that's the fact here. Then I just have to stress that I have no need to defend the Advance Party. I just pointed out a fact. The point is that I believe that the Progress Party is on another globe. The problem is that the Workers' Party has notified the move to the same globe. Unfortunately, with the announcement of the perspective, with the wording and with the approach of the Ministry of Finance to the climate challenges, it is quite similar. That means that if you want to make a distinction, you have to be able to make a government shift to the three parties that were able to get at least 36 points – sail if we were to dream that the Left's climate message would be ready to go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3508	I felt compelled to have another post before returning to Neptune a little later today. To put it simply, the Progress Party is often at the centre of political debates. Usually there's a very good reason for that. But it happens occasionally that our role is somewhat exaggerated by other political parties. Today we have had a debate that testifies to the last example, in which we try to create a debate where we are invited to discuss 16 climate action that has been promoted. But then the government parties try to make it a debate on the Progress Party, and that the Progress Party does not believe enough in man-made climate change. It's also a very interesting discussion, but today we have to discuss these 16 measures. I understand why both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have an interest in discussing us, because they have such an insane – I don't know if it's unparliamentary, President – such a very bad thing when they're defending their positions. It is, as I pointed out earlier in the debate, an enormous sea of distance between the political rhetoric you lead on the one hand and the measures and the capacity to implement on the other. The lack of links, the lack of links, are becoming so obvious in the very kind of debates we have today. SV has repeated several times in the debate that this is the greatest challenge facing humanity. Yeah, but you're not willing to go into suggestions that would help meet that reality description. The Progress Party supports eight of these 16 actions. We support half. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party support zero. It becomes a little strange when the Progress Party, which is presented as the climate denial party in today's debate, is able to agree on eight measures that the government parties are unable to stand behind. It shows the lack of connection between rhetoric on the one hand and politics on the other, and it says something about the total lack of credibility of government parties in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3521	The representative, Mr Egeland, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, but, as the rapporteur for the matter, has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3524	My point is to say that there is not a sea of distance in climate policy with regard to the proposals that are here today, because the government is mostly working in these areas. Where, on the other hand, there is a sea of distance from climate policy, and which will be crucial, the issues we have discussed earlier today are, in fact, whether or not there is an offensive to increase oil extraction in Norway. It was one of the decisions when Climate Change elections in 2013 marked the climate-friendly parties and climate hosts, and there came to the right in the second last place, which they shared with the Workers' Party – if it calms Astrup that we get the whole story.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3530	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3544	The President has not received a draft agenda for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3547	We are now going to discuss a proposal from the Progress Party with seven proposals with measures to improve the infrastructure of drinking water supply and sewerage in Kommune-Norway. It is an overall committee engaged in good infrastructure in the supply of drinking water and sewerage. It is essential that infrastructure such as the mains are maintained and renewed at a rate which ensures good quality of drinking water and sufficient capacity in the sewerage network. An overall committee agrees that there is a large maintenance set-up on the grid in many Norwegian municipalities. The majority of the Committee, which in this case is all minus the Progress Party, indicates that increased levels of rainfall associated with climate change will increase the pressure on the sewerage system. We have a number of laws and regulations regulating water and sewerage services in Norway. The majority of the Committee points out that in its letter of reply, the Council of State refers to Notification. Art. No. 33 for 2012–2013 on climate adaptations in Norway, which were also debated earlier today. It is proposed, inter alia: to set up a public investigation committee to assess existing legislation and make any proposals for improving the framework conditions for the management of increasing levels of flooding by the municipality in the event of climate change. The majority of the Committee points out that the water and sewerage service is a municipal responsibility financed by the water and sewerage fee. In recent years, the government has taken several measures to help the municipality secure this important infrastructure in a good way, in order to ensure that social interests are taken into account. If there is good cooperation between local and central authorities, we get a better water and sewerage service. The government has recently consulted on a proposal to amend the guidelines on municipal self-sufficiency. This may lead to possible changes in the water and sewerage fee. Norway is a party to the International Protocol on Water and Health and is committed to setting objectives to ensure good quality of drinking water. It has just been consulted on proposals for such national targets for water and health in drinking water and sanitation. Here it is a goal that we should be able to achieve the standard laid down in the legislation that the drinking water regulation and the water regulation require. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, On 10 January 2012, in Stortinget, we made a change in the law on municipal sewage treatment plants, which included: all new water and sewerage facilities shall be owned by the municipalities. The majority in Stortinget supported this, with the exception of the Advance Party. We did this to ensure that the inhabitants of the municipalities have sufficient and clean drinking water and a good sewerage network that ensures good hygiene. In order to achieve quality, safety and long-term sustainability in the water and sewerage sectors, the majority believe that these facilities must be municipally owned. The majority believe that the basic infrastructure of the municipality as a water and sewerage facility should be a public matter both in terms of responsibility and in terms of who owns the facilities. The maintenance of facilities and the proper control of their facilities are essential to have a good standard in their facilities and to avoid the effects of drinking water in Bergen a few years ago. The drinking water source of the municipality’s inhabitants may be vulnerable. That's what we saw during the storms in winter. The ownership of the water and sewerage network must be seen in the light of safety and preparedness. The need for renewal of the mains speaks for public ownership in order to make progress in maintenance, which has a large lag. Municipally owned water and sewerage facilities are provided with water and sewerage fees from subscribers. The revenue from the fees shall be wholly intended to cover the costs incurred by the municipality in the field. A municipality shall not be able to organise itself away from the principle of self-sufficiency. This implies that the law also applies to municipal limited liability companies owned by a municipality, in addition to companies established under the law on intermunicipal cooperation. In Norway, it is common for the development tasks to be largely outsourced to private operators, while the municipality itself is responsible for the operation and management of the facilities. The seven proposals of the Progress Party are not supported by any of the other parties, and we propose that they be annexed to the Minutes. I expect the proposers to promote the views of the minority on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3587	There is no doubt that the water and sewerage services in Norway are regulated by laws and regulations, as presented by our representative proposal. The Progress Party has noted that, in its letter to the Committee of 14 May 2013, as well as the Committee’s pluralities, climate change and increased levels of rainfall mean increased pressures on the sewerage network. In the light of these data, the Progress Party believes that it is alarming that improvement in the supply of drinking water and improvements in the sewerage network has not been a priority in recent years. The Progress Party has noted that it has been proposed to establish a public distribution selection to assess the current legislation and, where appropriate, make proposals. The Progress Party believes that this measure can be seen as being characterised by disclaimer of responsibility and lack of action. It is a fact that most of the water and sewer pipes around the country are over 100 years old, and in Bergen it is said that some of these pipes are still of wood. In view of the actual conditions surrounding Norwegian water and sewerage services, the Progress Party has proposed that we ask the government to propose a comprehensive plan for the renewal and upgrading of the water supply and sewerage network, and we have several points in which we describe which instrument should be included in the plan. I'm taking up these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3600	The representative, Åge Starheim, has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3603	On the right, we have a great deal of understanding of several of the proposals and intentions contained in the proposal for a representative. However, we are somewhat concerned that some of the proposals will contribute to increased detail management and red tape of the municipal sector. In fact, we do not expect the proposers to do that either. Nor has it been long since we dealt with a matter of this in the hall, namely the law on municipal water and sewerage systems. I would like to refer carefully to the comments of the Right when dealing with that matter. But one relationship I'll take up. This sector is a bit special in the municipal sector. The VA sector is different from the other critical infrastructure sectors because the responsibility for authority and regulation is distributed among a number of departments, including: Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Justice and Defence. However, none of the departments has overall or coordinating sectoral responsibilities and, as a result of the organisation of powers, the industry is subject to a rather fragmented legislative and regulatory system. For this reason, we believe in the Right that there is a need for a comprehensive sectoral law in line with the professional leadership of the 2006 public inquiry. I see that the Council of State has not signed up on the list of speakers, but I want to challenge him a little bit as to whether there is going to be work on such a sector law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3614	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3629	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3638	In this case, we are dealing with a proposal from the representatives of Storing, Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tendeen to streamline labour immigration to Norway through simpler rules, better procedures and faster procedures. There is a broad political consensus that Norway needs foreign labour. The proposers show, among other things: for the treatment of St.meld. No 18 for 2007-2008 on labour immigration, when the majority of Stortings, all except the representatives of the Progress Party, agreed that the legislation in this area should be made simpler and more transparent. We also agreed that procedural procedures should be improved, and that a number of measures should be taken to facilitate the provision of foreign labour. The proposers point out that Norwegian labour and business will need special skills to cope with competition with international companies and that for several reasons it is not obvious that the competent labour force is applying to Norway. It is now widely acknowledged that Norway has become a multicultural country, where immigrants enrich society and working life through their experience, knowledge, willingness to work and efforts. They also have ideas that can contribute as a result of having a different cultural background. At the same time, the multicultural society faces challenges that need to be solved in order to realise the opportunities of each individual person. A majority of the Committee considers that fundamental values such as democracy, freedom of expression and respect for individuals must form the basis of a multicultural Norway. Successful integration is based on reciprocity in duties and rights, communication, recognition and respect for each other as human beings. It is therefore important to strengthen efforts to increase the participation of immigrants in the labour market. There is a broad consensus that the starting point for those who do not have a need for protection must be that they can provide for themselves and their families. The right makes clear financial demands for those who bring the family to the country. becoming a full member of Norwegian society as a citizen involves both rights and obligations. It demands the individual, but it also requires society to accept new citizens. Those who receive Norwegian citizenship have lived in Norway for several years. So society must expect that during this period they have acquired a level of knowledge of both language, values and social conditions. Any legal society must combat discrimination on whatever basis. The right starting point is that there are individuals who are being discriminated against. Protection against discrimination must therefore be linked to individuals, not groups. In the comments on this matter, we have referred to the 2011 Right-wing Representative's proposal, where we defined ten points for better integration. We then proposed to strengthen the opportunities of immigrants through language and work, to explore the success criteria for multicultural recruitment and to conduct language screening before school starts. We would, like Left, have what we called a fast track system for pre-authorised companies. We wanted a blue card arrangement. We would have an activity obligation for social welfare recipients and free core time in kindergarten when mother or father participates in an introduction course. We wanted authorisation schemes for the education of immigrants. We wanted to strengthen housing policy and have a language and knowledge test for citizenship. A number of these proposals are consistent with the intention of the Left's proposal for a representative, but not all. But we signal here and now that we will vote in favour of proposal No. 3, which is posted in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3661	As the rapporteur has well explained in relation to the main features of this case from the Left’s Grandfather’s Group, the case contains twelve proposals which the Left believes will contribute to simpler rules, better procedures and faster procedures for recruiting labour from abroad. It was a unanimous committee that decided that the proposals should be annexed to the protocol, so I record that the right has changed the opinion since we gave the vote on the matter. I want to look back, towards the perspective message, which was dealt with here in Stortinget on 29 April this year. It describes future challenges and opportunities for the Norwegian economy and well-being, including the strong increase in labour migration to Norway after the EU enlargement in 2004. From 2005 to 2012, there have been some 330,000 more employed in the country. There are more than ten times as many as in the period 2001–2005. About 60 pst. of this increase, immigrants have been. Enterprises and public employers would not have had the opportunity to pick up this labour force domestically, so that migrant workers represent a positive contribution to the labour force. They helped to extend the strong upturn in the Norwegian economy in the run-up to the financial crisis, and over the last two years, we have seen that labour immigration has contributed to an increase in production capacity and capacity for conversion into the Norwegian economy. It is, as the rapporteur said, a broad consensus in the United Kingdom that migrant workers represent a resource for Norway, and that it is important that we manage to recruit skilled labour in a fast and efficient way. At the same time, I would like to remind you that until now, the government has presented three action plans against social dumping. It is important that the recruitment of labour takes place within the framework of the rules governing Norwegian working life. The Committee originally promoted a unanimous vote to attach the proposals from the Left to the Protocol. The justification is that the proposals have either already been implemented, have been assessed in the past and/or are considered to be a less effective solution than the ones currently in force. The proposers support what they believe is a need for more effective rules that, in a previous consultation opinion, Norwegian Industry has shown a considerable shortage of labour in different industries. However, the Council of State points out in its letter to the Committee that no feedback has been received from the employer team indicating that the legislation is the main reason for this. The first proposal, to reintroduce a specialist home and extend it to non-skilled workers, is not particularly relevant. The home we had was lifted because it was misused significantly and became a shell for social dumping. The same applies to proposal No. 2 about job application visas. Proposal No. 3 on prior approval, proposal No 5 that the employer should decide more on the requirements of competence, proposal No. 6 on simpler procedures for the renewal of work permits, proposals Nos. 8 and 9 on family immigration were all promoted in the representative proposal from the Right, which was discussed here in the Chamber in November 2011, and they were not entirely new at that time either. The prior approval of establishments was assessed and rejected in the context of the notification of St.meld. No 18 for 2007-2008 Labour immigration in June 2008. Instead, a simpler early start-up system was introduced, which also means that it is the employer who assesses the worker’s competence. The Impact Programme has already introduced simpler procedures for renewal. Family immigration issues from third countries now take about three months. Since it is a family immigration issue, almost the migrant must have his application approved first. Proposal No. 4 deals with the recognition of foreign education, and it was an important theme when, in March of this year, the European Parliament dealt with the communication on integration. The case is for follow-up in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The same is true of vocational language training. Proposal No. 7 deals with rapid proceedings in the UDI, which is a work in progress, which has already produced good results and which will be continued. It also includes the part of the proceedings that takes place in the police districts. Improved information is constantly being worked on, including in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Finally, there is reason to stress that we agree with many of the intentions behind the proposals that are being promoted, but that the majority consider these intentions to be well respected already. Since the Left has now chosen to drop five of the original proposals, this may indicate that the Left also agrees that much of this has already been done well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3689	I only need to give a explanation of vote: the Progress Party will support the Left's proposal No. 4, paragraph 5, paragraphs 6 and No 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3694	The next speaker is the representative, Trine Skei Grande, who we might expect to present the proposals that have now received considerable support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3697	The last thing I'm very, very happy about. I would like to stress everything that the representative Halleraker started on about rights and obligations, and that we must also demand those who are going to become Norwegian citizens. But labour immigration has nothing to do with being kind to others. Labour immigration is a purely selfish act for Norway, because we need people. So there's no solidarity, except with ourselves, in ensuring that the immigration of labour goes smoothly and smoothly, and that we get the people we need. This is an area that I've worked a lot on. I can say that in the field of immigration, I have three objections to the government: it is the bureaucracy associated with labour immigration, it is the difficulties associated with family reunification, and it is the children of asylum. This is then one of the fields we worked a lot with. We visited many companies that depend on being able to compete for highly educated people from other countries as well. Many of them discover that they are losing in competition because it takes too long. When IT companies are to collect top IT engineers, e.g. from India, which is so attractive that they get a job almost where it should be on the globe, we lose the transitional hatches that are, because the bureaucracy is too big, and it takes too long to get a job clearance – and then Canada or other countries have snatched the wise heads from us. There are five proposals in the proposal for a representative, where we believe that the government has a good explanation of why we should not vote for them today, so there are five proposals we have chosen not to promote. But with regard to the other proposals, we sincerely believe that there are no good counter-arguments in the matter. What worries me is the big gap between the production of Norwegian business and that which the government gives, of how well this works, and how short the deadlines are. I think that when you, for example, talks about how long UDI spends on papers, just counting on the time in UDI and not the time it takes to deliver them to the police chamber and get them out of there. We have experienced that a large police chamber like Bergen, for example, will deal with the matter before forwarding it to the UDI. According to those with whom I have spoken, you will ensure the quality of everything in your application before it is forwarded – that is what they consider a police task. There is an information that, in the light of today's police analysis, shows that there are some places in our police system where there are quite a few priorities, and where you are so busy doing the job according to the book that you don't do it the most effective way: just let the UDI take over the application right away. I think that's why there's such a huge gap between what the government says is the deadline, which is UDI's treatment time, and the treatment time that is experienced for each company. There are so many cuttings in the sea before you are even given the application to which it is to be treated. I could have addressed several of our proposals, but our point is that one has to make flexible arrangements based on the needs and wishes of the business community, because this is the business needs and not the need for people to come to Norway – we have completely different arrangements to meet them. We can clearly make demands on those who come here, but first of all they are the ones we're talking about here, the ones who come to Norway because we need them to create the welfare, the jobs and the business that we're going to live on, and that our common costs are going to cover. I'd like to take up all seven of the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3714	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposals to which she referred and which are now to be distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3717	I share the views of the proposer on the importance of facilitating the rapid and effective recruitment of skilled workers. Good practices, simple rules and quick handling are a prerequisite for Norway to attract highly skilled labour. In recent years, labour migration has been record high — and positive for Norway. It helps to meet the demand for labour and to carry out important tasks and provides useful skills. Today’s policy was based on the Employment Communication presented by the Government in 2008 and the aim of the policy is to facilitate the recruitment of skilled foreign labour by enterprises and businesses in a simple and efficient way. At the same time, every worker must be guaranteed good conditions in Norwegian working life. The fight against social dumping is therefore a very important part of the government's labour immigration policy. Policies must be designed in such a way as to contribute to the sustainable development of the welfare society. Future labour demand should mainly be met by mobilising domestic labour resources. Labour immigration in addition to this shall complement domestic labour force, not replace it. That's how we get a well-functioning labour market. I see it as the left behind the main lines of today's policy. There is a broad political consensus in Norway that we need labour. We have recently had a broad review of labour immigration policy, and new arrangements have been put in place, more in line with the proposals of the Left. I would like to add some considerations to some of the proposals. The proposer proposes to reintroduce the specialist family so that enterprises can employ non-skilled workers from non-EEA countries. It is not a reintroduction of what the previous provision was intended to cover. The purpose of the specialist provision was the rapid and effective recruitment of highly skilled labour from outside the EEA territory. The need for unskilled labour is covered, inter alia, by: by the Nordics and other citizens of the EEA territory. That is why we only want to open up the labour market to skilled workers from third countries. The proposal to extend ‘early start of work’ in the case of prior approval of enterprises and educational and research institutions has been considered in the past. The assessments showed that prior approval is administratively demanding and leads to longer, not shorter, procedural periods. Today, the situation is such that there are few complaints over a long period of time in the handling of work cases. Employers’ figures and feedback do not indicate that there are large administrative barriers to recruitment or to employment immigration to Norway. In fact, the time taken to deal with the case has declined, and although the composition and the performance requirements have changed, and the figures cannot be fully compared, directly, they nevertheless give an image. At the end of 2009, 38 pst. of the applications submitted by the skilled person concerned for less than one month, while the whole of 28 pst. was longer than three months. Now treat 65 pst. of cases within four weeks and 83 pst. within eight weeks. The Ministry follows the procedure carefully and assesses ongoing adjustments and changes that can further improve efficiency. We are also still asking for advice from employers on how to achieve a simpler and more efficient system. The proposal to amend the rules, so that the requirements for competence as skilled are more clearly defined by employers, have been implemented by the early start of work scheme. The employer is responsible for ensuring that the competence is good enough, he recruits directly, and the employee can start working before the application has been processed. Simple procedures for the recognition of foreign workers facilitate the recruitment process. Measures such as the establishment of the information centre, the updating of databases for approval decisions and the strengthening of the NOKUT resource situation have been undertaken to improve the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3734	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3737	Just briefly to the representative Lise Christoffersen first: the proposals from the Left were presented in the Chamber today, so we must support it today. What I was going to ask the Council of State is precisely this about having faster treatment and approval of companies that are applying for skilled labour. There is a difference between the labour force and the skilled labour force is very competitive both in Europe and worldwide. As Trine Skei Grande also mentioned, we know that skilled labour can go to other countries that need it if we have too long working hours with us. Does the Council of State see that this can be a disadvantage to us, and that this is particularly true of skilled labour, where companies need urgent procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3745	The answer is that the early start-up scheme is better than the proposed one, that some enterprises should be approved in advance, because that is what we believe would require a greater bureaucracy. I believe that the system we have chosen is better than what is proposed here. What's important to me is that we get the quick treatment of all the businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3755	The deadlines indicated by the Council of State are so fundamentally breaking with the deadlines that not only the companies I have talked to tell you about, but also the companies that have as their job to take paperwork for others in the field of labour immigration. They tell about completely different images and deadlines than those given in the Council of State documents, including: that it takes a very long time to get the papers delivered to the police, that it is very framed when and how you can do it, and that you feel that it can go back and forth in the first stage many times. My question to the Council of State is whether she is absolutely sure that the deadlines she is telling the Stortinget are the real deadlines that people who start working on a case experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3760	When I give percentages on how many applications have been completed in one month, it does not apply to all of them. I do not ignore the fact that the representative, Skei Grande, has been away in cases that have had longer proceedings, but what I am told about is the figures for how long it takes to process all the applications. That is the procedure I am given. We are still asking for feedback from companies on how we can make a simpler system that goes faster. I believe that ‘early work’ has been one of the most important things to ensure that you can start early, as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3767	I don't think she's misrepresenting anything wrong with the UDI's treatment process or percentage. My question is whether the submission, the role of the police and the police department have been included in the calculations, or whether the periods given are the UDI's processing time of the application.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3772	This is what I have been informed as the time it takes in the UDI. If you want detailed answers on how much you have spent on the individual police station etc., I almost have to come back to the representative with that. There is no doubt that in this area we received many more complaints before what we are doing now, and that the companies are mainly satisfied with the treatment they receive. Not everyone is, but that it goes much more efficiently, there can be little doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3779	It seemed that the Council of State was so sure that she got the last word now, so I had to take the chance. We get a lot of feedback. It's about a lot more people wanting to get in, and a lot more Norwegian companies have a very international environment, so the pressure gets big. Then I have to ask if the Council of State would like to take an initiative with the Minister of Justice to streamline the police's part of this, because that is where we get complaints. We get complaints that it is both bureaucratic, heavy-won, and puts big screws in the wheels for those who want to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3784	We have an ongoing dialogue with the Ministry of Justice on these matters. I am pleased that the proceedings of the UDI have declined. How these tasks are carried out in concrete terms at each police station, the representative must almost ask the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3792	I'm not going to help out here, but only on the basis of the last lines from Trine Skei Grande, I'm going to add that part of the EFFECT programme is also about improving communication between the police and the UDI. It works with computer programs such as shall be able to enable it in due course to be called a thick first line, so that even several cases can also be dealt with out and not necessarily in and centralized. It's also a work that's going on. There is no doubt that the representative Skei Grande is right that in those transitions it has until now and until a real computer program is in place, a lot of manual handling, which has taken a lot of time. Finally, I would just like to reiterate to the representative, Mr Halleraker, that it was, of course, the original twelve proposals we discussed in the committee. There is nothing to prevent other parties in the Committee from making those proposals. We've done that many times when we've agreed. That's why I was a little surprised that it was now a changed setting, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3799	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3813	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Thommess, who is speaking for Mr Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3824	Linda Hofstad Helleland is unfortunately ill. It gives me a loving opportunity to come here and talk about equality. I want to start by thanking the Left for raising a – I want to say – big and complex Document 8, which raises a number of important questions. The most important thing is to raise this theme, a theme that needs to be renewed. Although in our society we see equality as a matter of course, we shouldn't dig so much below the surface until we see that there are still challenges we should address. I expect that the individual parties will explain their positions, but for the right there are three areas in particular I choose to raise in this post. These include the fight against violence and the repression of women, better equality for minority women and the right to full-time and more flexible working hours. Violence, abuse and exploitation of women are violations of fundamental human rights. Women make up 75 pst. by the victims of trafficking in human beings, 73 pst. by the victims of family abuse and among the victims of sexual crimes, the proportion of women is 87 pst. In addition to the fact that violence very often causes mental and physical stress that is difficult for individuals to deal with, studies show that crisis-centre users often lack links with the labour market and have a lack of or low-supporting social network. The right considers that society needs to provide better support and help to victims of violence. We want national victim care with a comprehensive public thought for follow-up, help and support to victims of violent crime, primarily to offer help, but also to assist the victim by providing knowledge of his own rights. The right will also have its own national rapporteur against trafficking in human beings, increased attention on combating sexualised violence against women and trafficking in human beings in the police and improved competences in the public utility to detect trafficking in human beings, gender mutilation, sexualised violence, family violence and honour-related violence. In Norway, it has become obvious that women and men should have equal opportunities for full participation in society. In the integration work, we need to do this better, so that women in current immigrant environments get knowledge of what rights our society can offer them, and that we actually have the expectation that it is obvious to us that they should have the same rights as men, and actually have the same participation. Figures from the SSB show that the employment rate for migrant women is 10 pst. lower than that of immigrants. In the total population, the difference is only half of this. The right has prioritised free children's playground for participants in the introduction course, extended the provision of language mapping for all 4 year-olds, and strengthened integration work for non-governmental organisations. The right will strengthen language training and other targeted actions so that more women with a minority background can and will participate in the labour market. We will strengthen voluntary organisations that contribute in particular to the integration of immigrant and refugee women into Norwegian society. Not least the person who is allowed to stay after reunification. Norway is well advanced in gender equality work. We have a particular responsibility to make a positive contribution to promoting gender equality in other societies with significantly greater gender issues than in Norwegian. Ensuring equal access to school for girls and boys is a fundamental human right to which all girls must have access. In addition, this results in many other improvements in the life situation of these girls. Girls who get school and education are later married away, they have fewer children on average, and child mortality decreases. In addition, the role of women in peace-building and peace-keeping must be strengthened and the human rights of women in conflict better protected. The right will give stronger priority to education, especially for girls in development policy, and strengthen efforts to combat sexualised violence in war and conflict situations, with particular follow-up to UNSCR 1325. With this, I will address the suggestions on the right hand side alone, whether or not on the right hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3850	The representative has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3853	I would like to commend the Left Party for promoting a comprehensive and thorough Document 8 proposal that will allow us to have a proper equality debate in this Chamber here at the summit of this big session. The gender equality debate has not exactly been absent in the past either, but it has been more concretely linked to, among other things. the birth rate, parental leave, kindergarten and such things. The left is, of course, a party with proud gender traditions – not least we have heard that now during the voting anniversary – and also a party that was early out with the use of quotas in its party. A great deal of what is also included in this Document 8 is about gender and feather quotas. I have to say that for a party like the Left, which is so concerned with questions like this, they have ended up in very bad companies together with the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal for a document 8 clearly demonstrates that we still have a long way to go in the field of gender equality, and that such instruments as both the government parties and the left are involved are necessary if we are to move forward. A number of measures are promoted in the proposal and a number of them are already being submitted to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. There is no secret that only within a few weeks a big message on equality will be submitted. Those who meet in the Stortingen in the autumn will then have a good opportunity to discuss the future gender equality policy in Norway. In addition to promoting a number of concrete proposals to bring about more real equality in Norway, we still have some structural challenges in gender equality. It is not only about who is responsible for public administration and for enterprises for gender equality but also about the fact that the traditional gender role pattern in Norway is still very prominent. We still have very old-fashioned attitudes considering the role of women and men in this society. We can see that, not least when it comes to boys and girls, how they get treated when they start in kindergarten. We have research on that from Agderforschung. We can see it when married men are actually the shortest in rehabilitation institutions, while unmarried men are the longest, while there is no difference between married and unmarried women at all. That's the number from Steinkjer Municipality that shows, when they examined their gender equality attachments and what practice they had on it. We also have experience from many fathers in health centres who report that they are not exactly meeting with a great deal of understanding that they are coming there with their little pod. This shows that we have a number of structural challenges, such as: the Skee Selection also writes in its document. We have a thorough job to do in the years to come. I am quite sure the government will make a number of proposals when it makes its proposal in a few weeks' time, so that we can put in place more equality where people live. I want to say a little bit about working time, because there's probably a lot of disagreement between the government parties on the one hand and both the Left and the Right parties on the other. It is said that weakening the work environment law and making it more flexible – read: opportunity for more overtime and night work – will contribute to more equality. There we disagree. It is actually the Working Environment Act, the fact that we have regulated working time, which has made it possible for young children's parents to combine having young children with being economically active, as well as having parental leave schemes and good childcare arrangements through kindergartens. If one starts to weaken working time arrangements in a way, it helps to make more young children’s parents actually have to work in the evening and get less regulated working time, it will be directly anti-equality. Finally, I fully agree with what has been said about immigrant women. To contribute to increasing gender equality among immigrant women, it is really the same instrument that has been used by women in general, which is needed: it is an issue of economic independence. We have to make sure that they get jobs, education and that they become economically independent. There has been a tradition of gender equality in Norway in both Norwegian and immigrant women.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3868	I would also like to join that praise to the Left for promoting this comprehensive proposal. It's a proposal that goes into a lot of committees, and we might have gotten a little short time to discuss it in the committee. A week ago, we celebrated in this room the 100th anniversary of the general voting rights of women in Norway. Many of those posts were about history, but it was also about that we have to look forward to. We have come very far in Norway, thanks to many strong women who have gone ahead. I do not entirely agree with the rapporteur that we have a long way to go in order to achieve real equality between women and men, but that we have some challenges, the Progress Party can agree. Although more and more girls now take higher education — and the girls are better off applying for untraditional professions — the boys do not. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is important that we strengthen the advisory service at school, both in high school and in high school. Often pay is crucial to which job and profession you choose. Therefore, it is important to focus on raising the status and salary levels of women-dominated low-wage workers. We also need men in these professions, and we don't get that far without it being good pay and status. The undersigned today had a meeting on behalf of the Committee with a delegation from Thailand, which was interested in our gender equality policy. It was interesting with the questions I got when it came to the fact that the men really found themselves in these schemes that we had in Norway. It was a pleasure to explain to them that there was a problem we hadn't even thought about – whether the men in Norway were proud, and whether they were kind. At least then we could say that Norwegian men were good men, who also wanted to be home with their children and work in kindergarten. So there was a little thing here. New figures from NHO's membership statistics show that there are increasing numbers of female business leaders. And there's reason to believe that the positive trend in the proportion of female leaders is related to women's admissions to universities and colleges. Nevertheless, this week we could hear that some of the women who applied for leadership did not apply to the private sector but to the municipal sector. It's worrying, isn't it? We need more women to start our own businesses, and therefore it is important to stimulate women who want to start their own businesses not to be unduly affected. Part-time has been a theme in this hall many times. It's a goal for all parties to reduce involuntary part-time, but we only have a little bit of different tools. Involuntary part-time work often affects women, and young women who want to take a full job, when they have taken a training course that they want to use. Another issue raised by the proposers is equal parenthood. And at the crumble of this ageing period, it's good to talk about parental leave and father's quota one more time. The newspaper online had an article yesterday that young parents did not want a father’s quota. They themselves wanted to distribute these weeks. The Progress Party fully agrees, the parental leave should be for the family and for the children. There should be a system to benefit family and children, but under this government it has also been used in a gender equality fight. In order to achieve a more equal parenthood in the case of parental leave, it is important to grant independent exit rights to fathers. Violence in close relationships is also a theme of this proposal. It's also an equality fight. It's a frightening development we see in partner drops, and therefore it's incredibly important that we get prevention. Family violence coordinators in the police districts, crisis centres in the municipalities and, in particular, health sisters, family protection offices and school health services may be unable to prevent this. We must look ahead, and we must not forget the challenges facing other women in other countries. They can only dream of the arrangements we have here in Norway. It is important to strengthen gender equality among minority women. They often take high education today, but they may marry illiterates from their original home country, and they do not get into work. Norway needs these girls, and it is important that we get them to work. We also have a responsibility to contribute to promoting equality in other societies with greater equality challenges than we do. For these girls, education and healthcare are important. I refer to the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3898	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3901	Like the others, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for putting equality on the agenda, and I have to say that I am very pleased with the position the equality theme has been given in recent times. It should only be lacking when we have just marked that it is 100 years since women were given equal voting rights with men. Last week, we heard a lot of good speeches, posts and history stories about the fight that have been fought to get where we are today. We have a government that has really put equality on the agenda. In 2010, the then Minister for Gender Equality, Lysbakken, appointed an expert committee to investigate Norwegian gender equality policy in order to provide the basis for a comprehensive and knowledge-based gender equality policy for the future. Gender equality policy has never been the subject of a similar broad review in the past. And now we have full evidence that in many areas it's a piece left until we can say that we have full equality in the country. But we like to look at Norway as an equal country, and many use Norway as an example that we have come a long way, as the representative Horne also referred to with the delegation from Thailand before today. A crown example is Gros Women's Reign and how it became known all over the world – i.e. the government of 1986. And yes, it was especially with such a large proportion of women, but I have to admit that it feels a little strange to call it a women's government. The majority of the government were men. The equality objective has in a way become that one should reach 40 pst. the proportion of women. But it's probably not real equality until it's equally likely that it's 40 pst. men like it's 40 pst. women in political bodies or other elected bodies, boards, etc.? The lack of equality in political bodies, businesses, parents, education and working life is closely related to attitudes and culture and to the expectations of having one or the other sex. The representative Gjul also had a number of good examples here. There's no simple recipe for turning this around. However, finding targeted and accurate measures that can contribute to a gradual change in attitudes is what is needed. And fortunately, it does a lot. Family allowances are a good example. It's only after this was introduced that dad really started taking leave. I can also refer to the same article in the newspaper yesterday as the representative Horne did. There's a dad who says, ‘It is true that we have such a quota because it legitimizes that fathers are at home with the child. Most fathers had not been at home for one day longer than the set quota.» [[...]] The political will for such a generous leave arrangement as we have, and to ensure that all children have the right to a nursery place at a low price, have contributed to the fact that it is much easier to combine work and care. The fact that we have now started work to ensure greater job breaks for those who want to do so is also an important step towards ensuring women's economic independence. Last week we adopted new anti-discrimination laws and gender-neutral protection obligations. The Committee agrees with the proposers that combating violence against women, equal parenting and education and working conditions are important challenges for improving gender equality. The targeted and long-term work on extensions of leave, father rate and full child-care coverage will contribute to more equal parenthood. Systematic and holistic work is essential to succeed in many of the gender equality struggles. For example, when it comes to combating sexual harassment and sexual assault, it can be. Reference is made to good experience in the South-Trøndelag, where they have just worked systematically to prevent this through a programme aimed at school students and employees at school. It is essential to ensure that the measures and the work are followed up and evaluated. The government is now working on equal opportunities for Stortinget – as a follow-up to the Skjeie Committee – and I am looking forward to it coming. Then we get a good basis for discussing the direction of gender equality in the future. I would also like to commend the Left for the commitment within the gender equality field, but believe – like the representative Horne – that they have chosen the wrong partners to succeed in the goals. We don't get a more equal society if a majority of politicians in this room believe that quotaing is a utility, that fathers' quotas are unnecessary, that it's quite easy to pay mother to be at home instead of going to work, will increase kindergarten prices and cut the transitional benefit for single parents. If you want a comprehensive equality policy that gives us a real freedom of choice for both sexes – it is the freedom to choose to be with their own children, the freedom to participate fully in employment or the freedom from sexual harassment, violence and rape – then you have to provide for a still red-green majority!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3928	Last week we celebrated the anniversary of the voting rights, which several of the speakers here have been in. This is, of course, a proposal from the Left, which aimed to have the proposal dealt with on that day, following an invitation from the Presidency. It wasn't like that, but it's great that we're going to discuss this before we split up. Norway is among the world’s most equalised countries. There's no doubt about it. In our growth, we have experienced female prime minister, and the grossing-up president's seat is too far ingested and conquered. But we still see that there's some imbalance. We still experience that once girls are born, they are soured into pink carpets. And the boys get light blue carpets as soon as they get out. And then we continue in the toy shop -- into the pink tulle dream of girls' bars that we find in the shelves, and to the slightly more tough boys' games that come on the next shelf. Already there we are told that we are moving in two different worlds. And if any girls don't like the pink trick, they're called boys. And if some boys maybe move towards the pink tyle, they're called "female." We have to work on how we can manage to have a more sophisticated gender concept even within the gender, and how we can tear down this pink tyle and the blue rough games and get to use it across the gender. It was good to have this said! Let me then continue on the very proposal that we have to deal with today. We all have a responsibility to contribute to more equality, and we have a long way to go. The main challenges I think are not just about the beginning of life, but it's also about studies, wages, working life, and it's about violence in close relationships and power positions in society. We know that there is a majority of the involuntary part-time in our working life, and we know that women on average make 15 pst. less than men per hour. We know that four out of five rapporteurs are men, and that men dominate at the top of most sectors of society. We are also facing major gender equality struggles in the future: the fight against violence, rape and assault that affects women. Violence against women is raging every day in our country. The fight for full equality must continue. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Left's observation that time is now overdue to transform knowledge into concrete measures that promote real equality. The Christian People's Party is therefore now on – with varying support, some with the Right, some with the Advance Party, and some with both – a number of proposals. Among other things, we are involved in proposals on education, on a strengthened counselling service both in secondary and secondary schools, including: with a view to more people choosing gender-based education and careers. We also ask the government to develop concrete measures to stimulate more people to take untraditional professional choices in order to reduce gender segregation in the labour market. A highly gendered labour market is an important reason why women serve less than men overall and on average, while women often take a heavy responsibility for the work done at home. Men have become better at participating in what is about children and babysitting, but they have a good deal left when it comes to housework. The Christian People's Party believes traditionally women's dominated professions need a paylift. In the past, we have made proposals in Stortinget on an equal pay pot, and we believe that the social partners should set a timetable to correct wage discrimination. We want and have proposals for the right to demand a fixed position corresponding to real working hours. We also agree with the proposal that family violence coordinator in police districts should not be used for tasks other than work against violence in close relations. We are committed to proposing to strengthen prevention efforts to reduce the extent of violence and sexual violence by strengthening school health and health care. We are asking for increased research efforts on the extent and consequences of sexualised violence, and we also support the proposal to establish a separate national victim care service. There is still a good deal to be done before women and men have equal rights and an equivalent responsibility both in society and for children. We have made many proposals during the period that deal with this. Today, we are happy to be able to participate in even more proposals that contribute to it. I should like to refer to proposal No. 27 in the setting. We support that proposal, and we will vote for it today – we do not know exactly why we have been outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3951	Today we had a visit by a Thai delegation with parliamentarians. They were powerfully impressed by what we could tell them about equality. The paperwork was probably quite distant; it was possibly also parental leave in general. I didn't quite get how far it had come in Thailand. They were probably also very impressed by the number of female wholesalers. I could boast that in the Center Party there are eight of the eleven representatives of women. We were two from the family and cultural committee who were asked how many government councils are women – then we actually became a little insecure and replied: yes, about that. 50 pst. They were also very impressed about that. I had to check it afterwards, and actually it's 50 pst. women of government. When we don't even walk around and know it – just take it as a matter of course – it shows how common it has become. We impress delegations from other countries with what we can tell about gender equality promotion in this country. This year we can celebrate that it is 100 years since the women in this country were given the right to vote. It's nice to mark. That's why we also have this equality debate tonight. But we haven't made it far enough. When we talk to the Thai delegation about how difficult it is to get enough men in typical women's homes, as employees in kindergartens and as teachers in primary schools, they also realize that we have a way to go about gender equality – although I'm not sure if they fully understood how relevant it was, and that it was a problem. What we are discussing here is the document 8 from the Left – with a wide range of measures. There are many important measures, many of them we focus on, and many of them we need to focus on in the years to come. It is not all the proposals I have the opportunity to address here in this debate, but I would like to comment on some issues. They propose to strengthen counselling services both at secondary and secondary level in order for more young people from both sexes to choose non-traditional education and careers. I fully agree with that. The school advisory service plays an important role in increasing the number of non-traditional choices. We need more women in defense and in other traditional human bastions, and we need more men as kindergarten teachers and teachers in primary school, to mention something. Kids need male role models, and it's beneficial for the environment, whether it's getting more women into the defense or getting men into the care profession. There is – still – a difference today between being self-employed and being employed. The self-employed person receives sickness benefit only from the 17th day of sickness and is not entitled to care allowance in the case of a child's illness. The centre party therefore wishes to introduce entitlement to sickness benefits for self-employed persons, as for employees, in the absence of sick children. We believe that this is an important tool for more women to dry up as entrepreneurs and to run their own business. I should have had time to talk about violence in close relationships, but I can't – this debate came so quickly – but it's an important area. So I'll say a little bit about what I think is one of the most effective tools for equality. It's to my knowledge the paperwork. The centre party had programmed a third of the paperwork in the previous four-year period. The size has now adopted – with the red-green government at the head of it, of course – a clearer third of the parental leave period, which will enter into force on 1 July. We're very pleased with that. It hasn't been many years since it was totally unimaginable to be home with several kids for a newly-baked father – what in the world did you have mothers for then? Fortunately, it has changed. I dare to say that it was probably the fewest employers who thought it was natural for men to come and say, "I'm sorry, I'm staying home for three months." It just hasn't been culture for it, but fortunately it's changing. Then it's like the Right doesn't want us to have our own paperwork – here the family has to decide for themselves. I've said it before, and I'm saying it now: it's surprising, but the Christian People's Party is actually more modern than the Right on this question. I think it's right that fathers should also get the right to be home with their kids. It's part of the equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e3979	I would first like to thank the committee. I think it's taken our suggestions very seriously. We do not always experience it with the Document 8 proposals in the request, that the Committee takes the time to deal with them properly. So I'm very happy about that. The left has been at the forefront of gender equality since before we adopted female voting rights in this room – and many have come after – but we still see that there is a lot left. I believe that there is a great deal left on gender equality in very many areas, especially in our labour market – in general, in the labour market, we see a great deal of gender division. Many young women experience the glass ceiling when they get into work. We have an academy that still has the status assigned to men. Suffering if we've gotten far, it's very much left before people feel that they actually have real choices, regardless of what sex they have. We are very pleased that there are so many suggestions. We support almost all the proposals that have been put forward in the Committee and will present some more here today, because they go a little further than those put forward in the Committee. We will vote in favour of these primarily, but we will vote in favour of the other proposals secondary. I know it sounded a little difficult, but I think it's going perfectly well. There are some suggestions I would like to address. The government had in its major equality case this year the right to more breast-free. What we have learned and what we have presented in proposal No. 31 is that the fact that women are often discriminated against by employment and in other contexts is that it is assumed that women will have more sickness related to pregnancy than men, and that many employers believe that it is a greater financial burden for them to hire a woman than a man, because of sickness benefits. That is why we have included in our revised budget and in this proposal the removal of employers' responsibilities for sick pay during the employer's period for women who have diseases related to pregnancy. So we take away the last part of what a leader might see as a rational reason not to hire women, because you're afraid of the disease costs that a pregnancy can bring. I think that's an important fight in the future. It's not that a more flexible working life is going to be outrageous for women. At least the left is not for more overtime, nor are we for more night work, but we are for more flexibility in working hours and the night work we already accept today. I think the reason that a lot of women end up in the part-time trap is because they can't get the strict and rigid rules we have today for working time, to go up in terms of the life they live. Greater flexibility, I think, would have led to less part-time, and it would have led to more equality in society. The last time we were in the government, the Right-State Council introduced Gabrielsen's quota on corporate governance. Last time we were in government, Odd Einar Dørum introduced the first action plan against violence and the first police coordinators to look particularly at violence in close relationships. There's a job that still remains to be done, but we've been getting a lot in this field for the last 130 years. We're going to be on for that too. It's clear that if you're busy keeping the paper commission, it's important to have a strong Left and Christian People's Party in a new government. But along with the Right, we've got a lot of moves that no socialist government, no matter how many ladies they've had, has managed to get along with. We're going to make sure that we're in the front of it, too, both in terms of making working life more equal, in terms of making academia more equal, and in terms of making sure that we have a real freedom of choice for all the people who are going to go out to work. We don't get a majority for anything here today, because the government is voting against everything. But what they have at least is an incredibly good list of ideas for things they can record when they're going to make their messages. They're free to steal as much as they like, sail if we might point out where it came from. I think they have a very good menu with 35 suggestions, so if there's no action in the message, I'll be thoroughly, thoroughly disappointed. With that, I will address the proposals that we have that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4003	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4006	Let me start by giving praise to the Left for submitting these many suggestions, and for another opportunity to discuss equality in this room before we split up. We've had a lot of laps, as it's been pointed out. They've been important, they've been fun too — but they've been important in the first place. If there's something that history has shown us, it's that equality doesn't come of itself. One often has to promote unpopular suggestions, take steps that meet resistance there and then, but as most people agree after a while that has been reasonable. It's even like that, and perhaps especially when we meet foreign delegates, as others have pointed out here today, that we like to sunbathe in the glory of what has been achieved – even if you've been against the grips that have been done, that have led us to where we are today. But at least we can see that the rise in gender equality in the population is increasing. It delights me, and let me say a little bit about why it delights me. Equality is really a serious matter. It's basically about human rights, it's about justice, it's about democracy, it's about security, it's about freedom, it's about freedom of choice, it's about respect and maritime respect. It's all about basic things in people's lives, for example. defining my own identity – who I love, who I am, what kind of clothes I want to go with, how do I want to express myself, and not to be discriminated against just because you're a little outside the box of what is considered acceptable. The representative Dagrun Eriksen from the Christian People's Party was about how we treat boys and girls quite differently. It can kind of seem comical, and I, who have a son in kindergarten, reflect a lot around it. But it's also serious, because the children are gradually being disciplined into a much narrower range of options than many of them really want. In some places they are even exposed to heat and harassment, and some are subjected to violence simply because they behave differently from what is accepted in the environments. We also know that gender equality, gender equality, and gender equality vary depending on where we are in the country. It also depends on age, and it depends on culture. We have many different cultures in this country, and there are many variations within the concept of Norwegian culture. But we know, as I said, that if we want more justice, more democracy, more freedom of choice, more security, and that more people are going to have the opportunity to define their lives, we have to work to move on. We must not neglect the requirements – we must be willing to stand in the tough debates and say: OK, I understand that you mean this here and now can limit your ability to, for example. to choose with regard to the father quota, but at the same time we agree – the vast majority, at least – that it is wonderful that we have managed to change the human role in this country so much that it is quite natural for men to participate at birth, quite natural for men to change diapers, quite natural for men to rattle baby carriages, quite natural for men to be at home with sick children, and quite natural for men to be seen as important caregivers for their children, and that it has infected on women's ability to be workers in line with men, to prioritize their career, and to get their own income. Sometimes I hear a bit of sluggish remarks, especially from the People of the Progressive Party and the Right, that this is just done to achieve more equality. But it's not just. Firstly, part of the grips we take on quotaing is about breaking down barriers that restrict people's choices – that is, about giving people real freedom of choice. But it is also about ensuring that children get two parents who are equally important and equally safe for them, both of whom have income that contributes to the family economy, which is on their own, and which are less discriminated against in working life – completely practical, close things. The family quota is so important that we just have to fight hard to preserve it. I would like to congratulate the Christian People's Party and the Left if that's how to work together after the elections, which we'll try to prevent. This is a very important matter. The issue of quotaing is of immeasurable importance also in the case of control rooms and in the case of the rest of the world of work. It's an instrument that we know works. If we want to sunbathe in the glare of equality, we also have to dry up the grips that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4027	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4030	I can assure the Council of State that when you act as committee chairman and have meetings with foreign delegations, it is your duty as committee chairman to tell us about arrangements we have in Norway. Then it's not about sunbathing in the shine. I can also assure the Council of State that such meetings inform about the political disagreement. The Council of State has very easy to talk about that it is SV and this government that have a monopoly on equality, and that there are no other parties that have equality policies. But I want to give a concrete example. This applies to minority girls who today take higher education, and who we need out in the workplace, but who very often have to marry people from their original home country, and therefore do not get into work, but have to be at home on the kitchen bench. I wish the council had been equally concerned with the situation of these girls. It surprises me that SV has not done more for exactly minority women. My question is, what will the Council of State do to help these girls?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4043	We work a lot, and SV has been very busy with this for many years. Personally, since the mid-1990s, I have been involved in questions about how to ensure that equality includes minority women in exactly the same way as it has included ethnic Norwegian women in politics. It's basically about ensuring economic independence, just like the representative Gjul was in. It is about the possibility of learning Norwegian, it is about having outreach activities – a grip that the Progress Party is otherwise opposed – towards women who have been at home a lot on cash support. The Progress Party is in favour of cash support, which just helps to isolate many of these women and keep them away from the labour market, which in turn means that many of these children do not get into kindergarten when they should, which in turn means that they have fewer opportunities to cope in Norwegian society. This is the relationship we've been pointing out for a long time. We also want to have area bets, for example. free half-day job combined with measures to ensure that migrant women are able to survive in the labour market. There are also important principles of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4052	It has fallen into my weight quite many times throughout life to recruit people to be on a political list, to an organization or in and of itself also to business. Then, unfortunately, it's still so much that it's not always as easy to get women to keep quiet. There's some mechanism there that's a little bit difficult to see what is. I think a lot of what we're talking about -- having female role models -- is very important. In this way, I believe that the grip on business in the administration was very important. We have also later actually received a lot of votes in the comment area, which I would say are new, important women's votes in terms of economics and business. My questions to the Council of State are: What does she think might be the background to this issue? And does she have any thoughts about what you're doing on the government's side, for example. in the state apparatus, can you do just to bring forward the type of role models that I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4059	A very important measure that the Right Sea introduced, but which the Right now unfortunately wants to abolish again, if they get the opportunity, is quotaing to the boardrooms of the ASAs. It provides women in higher education in relevant professions with role models. It gives them confidence that they will be assessed in line with men and that their competences will not be ignored. That's one example. Then you can reflect on whether it's like women choose different and have different priorities than men, etc. To some extent, I think it can vote. But we also see that when we work with organization, working to eliminate the reasons why women give so much priority to women, there are many more women who want to. But if you just go on like today and assume that it's the women who 'own' the problem, you don't get anywhere. An example is the allowanceing of the electoral lists. Where the Right Party and the Advance Party have not done this, they cannot recruit women in the top places either – at least not in Westfold, my home country, where the Right Party has two men on top and the Advance Party has three. Everyone else can do it. You can reflect on why.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4066	It was regrettable to the Council of State that I had just turned up Poll of Polls, where you can look at what could happen if all the measurements were made. And if it's the case that polls today, with a clear bourgeois majority, strike, the Stortinget will be composed of record women – the largest number since women's voting rights. So I think we should do pretty well. But what I want to ask is about the freedom struggle that equality struggle really is, about women's right to choose. We have put forward one proposal here today that I think is very good, that is, the time paid by the employer in case of sick leave when you have a pregnancy-related illness. If we remove it, we remove the last scan that makes an employer say it's more risky to hire a young woman than to hire a young man. So my question is, why is it so hard for SV to look at that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4075	Now it is so that it was our government that guaranteed rights in the event of pregnancy. It could have been done before our time, but it was at least we who did it. Then I see that the large majority of the committee argues quite strongly that the system should still be the way it is today, and I take note of that. Otherwise, in so far as it is by being self-employed that we are willing to look forward to, I assume that the discussion will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4082	An important freedom struggle in relation to work, I think, is about people's right to follow their idea, their dream, their vision, their ability to create a job based on what they have as a driving force. Then the social rights are very important. What I mentioned first is about the paid time in sick pay, but it's very important to increase social rights, because it's about women's right to also be entrepreneurs, in line with men, without having that risk. We see that there is a very great overweight of men among those who choose to start their own business, starting off by themselves. It is also an important freedom fight to further increase social rights. Now the government has some closures because this is private, and self-employed, and then you are not as concerned with social rights as if you are a public employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4089	The last one was a claim, but as I said, it was we who secured these rights that have been introduced for self-employed people. It didn't do the left when they were in government. So it's not the case that we're not concerned about that question. But there are different ways to do it. There are also good, fundamental reasons for not going any further – simply because it will not be reasonable, because you pay more to the social security of earnings than you do if you are a self-employed person. But you can also increase your own insurance premium, for example, to get more. So it's an opportunity to solve it as a self-employed person. But we can be willing to look at different schemes to see if there are conditions that should be done to ensure that more women choose to go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4099	I can inform the Council of State that Rogaland Progress Party has two women on top – without being quotad. The Council of State was in its first reply to the undersigned that it is important to get young women with a minority background into work. It is very gratifying that the Council of State means this. But what's real today is that a lot of these women -- when they're done with higher education -- don't get into work because they're getting married. One of the measures to be taken is to increase the age limit for family reunification. My question to the Council of State is: is the Council willing to use the means of raising the age limit for family reunification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4110	Let me first congratulate two women on top of Rogaland. That's what I think is excellent, and it's needed to smooth the human domination elsewhere. So that's very good. On the issue, which is very important, of how to prevent coerciveness, the main action we are doing — in addition to encouraging minority women to take higher education, as they do in large measure, is also in areas that are traditionally man-dominated, and where ethnic Norwegian women often do not seek — to do more preventive work. The problems don't start with coercion; it starts with restricting the freedom of these girls. It's kind of starting in puberty. This is why we are focusing on a system of minority counsellors, which we also place more heavily on the youth stage, so that they can reach their parents, reach their youth and reach their schools. We are also involved in raising the skills of counselors, so that we can get access to these young girls and boys – because there are also boys who are being coerced – before it has gone too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4117	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4120	Let me also start by thanking the Left for a good initiative. Then it was also tempting to comment on Dagrun Eriksen's description of how we lock children into either a pink or a blue world. Then I just want to remind you that in the gender equality debate we're not talking about that we're necessarily going to be the same, but it's the equivalency that has to be in the center – just so it's said. Typical female-dominated professions, such as kindergarten and care, are characterised by a high proportion of unskilled. Continuing training is particularly important here. It helps to strengthen the position of women in the labour market, both for wage development and participation in professional environments. The right will have a lifting of competence in the women’s dominated professions in kindergarten and care. That is why we have prioritised this in the last few years' government budget. Female entrepreneurship enriches our business, but welfare systems must be set up so that women who want to start their own business are not unduly affected. More than one in three Norwegian women employed work in the health and care sector. They have a female share of 83 pst. There. A survey last year showed that 33 000 women want to start their own business in the health and care sector. These women are good private care workers. The right will have its own inaugural programme to make it easier for them to get to, together with a stronger focus on health and care research, to promote female innovation and to create better health and care services. 73 pst. of those who work involuntary part-time are women. This is a form of unemployment. About 17 pst. of part-time employees want longer weekly working hours. The proportion is highest in health and care professionals, and especially among those who work shifts and turns. More flexible rotation schemes will make it easier for women to combine full-time work with care for children. But it will also help single-parents and divorced parents of both sexes and get work and privacy to go together. Right will have more flexible rotational arrangements and support that workers should be entitled to full-time employment. But the government's proposal for a full-time right is, in effect, a right to inconvenient working hours. The proposal gives entitlement to the same working time as when taking extra shifts, and can make a commitment to permanent jobs with inconvenient working hours over several years. The right will have a clearer right to the same working time as the majority of the permanent position, combined with a slightly longer period of time before the requirement of a permanent position can be promoted. The right is concerned that society provides opportunities for everyone to make their own free choice, regardless of gender, but also regardless of age, function, outlook, orientation and origin. That's what equality is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4141	I should also like to start by thanking the Left, who is putting such an important political issue on the agenda. I also think the posts that have been made so far have been very good and very interesting. But it's also a bit of a typical debate when equality is the topic. Here we sit men like 'tause Birgitte', completely passive, leaving the debate and arena for such an important theme to the women of Parliament. That shouldn't and shouldn't be that. We men must take responsibility, stand up as good and natural co-players in order for equality policies to be at least as important as enterprise policies. I look forward to the day when equality and family policy are the theme of the ‘Gutteklubben Grei’ when important industrial policy themes shape the agenda, because both family and gender policies are good business policies. Then I have to make a prayer from a father who in 1979 only got four hours of paper. To my colleagues on the dark blue side of Norwegian policy: do not tear down what is laboriously built up over many long and good debates – and not least good initiatives. Let the father become a natural caregiver in early childhood. I also know that I have NHO on my team. So let our prayers be heard. Amen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4155	In that context, the term ‘amen’ should not be used from the pulpit of the Storting. It can be perceived blasphemically by someone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4158	To the end, I would say that the paper is about the kids' right to have a father and father's right to be a father, and to be an equally natural caregiver as that mother is. It's about equality, but it's about equality for dad too, and it's all about kids' rights. I get very sad when you bring it up. The reason why I felt the need to take the floor now was by the representative Meling's article on the Right Interpretation of what we have now introduced, namely the right to full time for those who have worked in addition to their job fraction for over one year, where you can say no, that is not good enough. Then the Right suggests that you just wait longer, because then it should get better. It is absolutely right that there is a requirement. If you have had different guards and this is not part of a full tour, you may be obliged to do so, if there is an agreement between you and the employer. But the alternative is to go in a small position and never know when to go to work. That's what the Right wants them to continue – never know when to go to work, never know what to earn, have no security for anything. Now we're taking some important steps towards this, and I'm just going to see the employer who's hired this person in a slightly bigger position, who's not trying to see how to organize this workforce in a slightly better way, so that they get better use than when they use a human being here and there. Today, I have read about a business with a lot of employees, a lot of women and a lot of part-time. They had simply decided that they should do something about this. Then they had made a six-point plan, and then they had got it. Not long ago I was at Olrud outside Hamar and visited two large shops. One was Maxbo. That's where men work, and they had 23 jobs and 22 employees. Next to that was Coop, where they had over 50 employees and 22 jobs. That's where women work. So we ask, what have you done with this? No, they wouldn't have thought of that. But now we give these women at least a tool to say, I want this whole position, I have the right to it. I also believe that these employers are getting a good initiative in order to organise their working hours a little better. So when the Right now offers these women never to know when to go to work, never to know how much work they get, not to know where to work, not at all to know what they can earn, but to run after all the extra guards for a longer time, I think it's a bad deal. There is no good proposal from the Right to postpone this or to remove this right. There is no obligation to apply for this either. They want it, they want it, they want it – and it's freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4173	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4187	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4196	Conflicts between parents may have serious consequences for young people. It is therefore important to provide a good and accessible mediation service in the family protection service and to provide good help for better parental cooperation. Most parents solve and manage life without a high conflict. I also believe that the vast majority of parents have a big focus on and are concerned that the kids should be well, both during and after the breakup. For those who, for different reasons, end up in conflict, and high-conflict, it is important to have good arrangements and offers. I would therefore refer to the Committee's comments, where we all refer to the Council's letter of reply that it is a priority area for the family protection service to exploit better mediation arrangements and the provision of parents and children in high-conflict cases as an alternative and supplement to court proceedings. Children’s right to be heard is also very important in this matter – that young people should say that. A short time ago, we discussed the child protection messages here in the hall, where ensuring children’s right to be heard and to participate throughout the whole process – yes, in all parts of a process involving the child was very central. In connection with Prop. 85 L, on changes in children’s rights, which have also been addressed, adopted measures to strengthen children’s opportunities for participation in parental rights. I would also like to refer to the Council's reply to the Committee, where this is further discussed. It is very important to prevent young people from being exposed to the potential conflict between parents. I'm glad, and I think it's very important, that the government is doing well in developing a custom and accessible supply for parents in conflict. The majority in the committee, all except the Christian People's Party, trust that the government will further develop and strengthen this work. In the light of this and the broad response from the Council of State to the Committee of my pluralities in the Committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, that it is not necessary to draw up an action plan, as proposed by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4213	It is a good proposal and an important proposal that is on the table here, but it is also a subject that has been thoroughly debated in this Chamber. It was also just done, as the rapporteur explained, in connection with amendments to the Children's Act concerning parental rights. The Progress Party will also refer to the proposals we had there and the comments on that matter. So to the thing that's on this table right now. Most people manage to distribute together without conflict through a breakup. However, it is worrying that there are more and more people who have conflicts and conflicts in the courts – it has recently been found that cases that have ended up in the courts have become more. More than 3,000 parental killers are in conflict in the courts. This is why prevention is very important. It is very important that parents who experience a break-in get good help in being able to cooperate, and also cooperate for the best for the child. Because we know that the child comes in a fight between two parents that they're basically as happy about, and the child has a trust relationship with both, and then it's important that parents manage to see their children and not just themselves in such conflicts. Then it is important to do the work related to the family protection offices, the work done there, and it also wants to strengthen the Progress Party. Then the Progress Party will also pay tribute to the government for putting in place a lot of good action, which we are waiting to see the outcome of. Nevertheless, I will refer to the matter that we dealt with a little while ago here related to equality. Equality is important when we're talking about happy living, because dad is important in children's lives. We also see that in a lot of these conflict cases, the father wants more association, and today's community legislation is probably more focused on mother's premise than on father's premise. That's what the Progress Party wants to light up. We would like one to have had the same scheme in Norway as in Sweden, an automatic shared care where possible. I think it would have dampened the conflict if someone had had such a system, the Progress Party also points to it in this case. I also want to refer to our remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4222	And include the proposal in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4225	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4230	The representative Solvency Horne then addressed the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4233	We all know that conflict between parents can have serious consequences for the children. Unripe parents may unfortunately be a bigger problem than immature children in this regard. But I guess we can also cost ourselves, after all, to say that there are many families that get it too. There are a very significant number of people separating layers – there are 10,000 divorces per year. Family protection offices probably have approx. 20,000 brokers. There's a lot of people we're talking about, and in that picture I want to say that there's actually a lot of families that are also able to figure it out. But it is no less important that we have a system that hits those who need it and that works prevention. That's what I think is great with the Christian People's Party's many initiatives in family policy, namely that it's a whole that also works preventively against building the family as an institution, and I think it actually also has a positive side where the family also loses as an institution – a good family relationship makes it actually better to deal with difficult days. Then, by this crossroads, we have joined the majority of the committee, which in many ways is based on the initiatives of the government. I join the previous speaker, who points out that we are waiting with excitement for how it will now evolve further. The right has previously proposed strengthening family protection, and we will continue to do so. On this occasion, I would also like to remind you that there is not necessarily a complete match between the positive signals given by the government and the actual results we see in the budget. We might have thought of a slightly more offensive attitude on the part of the government towards the budget side of this as well. We are committed to facilitating a comprehensive offer, with good processes for families to meet the public utility after a break in life. Strengthening family protection in the years to come will be an important task, and should be an important task, precisely because the family is an important part of our society. It's in the families we grow up, it's in the families we live, and then I think of all kinds of families, all kinds of families. I also think about singles, who also often have families, even though they don't share their daily lives with them. It's a basic structure of our society. As a result, it is also important to raise the profile of this policy area. So we look forward to the initiatives that the government has signalled. We're positively waiting for what's coming, and then we hope we go into a new growing-up period where the family is also put in the high seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4244	This is a rather difficult topic, because in this area many adults carry on their own pain. Nevertheless, we adults must be able to see past our own pain and see the children. Children who experience strong conflict between their parents bear the greatest pain. This applies to conflicts both before and after the breakup of life. Children with parents living together, who have a high level of conflict, suffer from it, and children with divorced parents who have a high level of conflict are in the same difficult situation. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for an action plan to reduce conflicts and improve parental cooperation after breakup. We note that the other parties do not believe there is a need for such an action plan. More than 20,000 children experience a divorce or separation every year. A total of 20 800 measles were completed in 2011, and as many have said, many of these can be found together. 2 632 child trial cases were settled in court. According to the National Health Institute, about one in ten Norwegian children between 6 and 15 years of age live in households where their parents are in conflict with each other. A few weeks ago, the NRK presented figures that showed that almost 3,000 couples are now fighting annually in court about where the children are going to live, and about the extent of getting together after a break. Over the past 15 years, there has been more than a double in the number of so-called child distribution cases, which now account for almost one fifth of all disputes in Norwegian district courts. These are quite serious numbers, for this is the story of thousands of children in crisis who are suffering from their parents' conflict. If we don't see that these children and families need help in this situation, if we don't see that we have to prevent parents and families from coming into such conflict situations, what does it say about us as a society? The Court of Justice has shown that approx. 80 pst. Children’s law cases are reconciled in court, and they believe that many of the cases should and could have been settled in the past, so that the conflict had not been so acute – to the detriment of the children. The court administration believes that the most important way this can be done is to strengthen the mediation function of the family protection offices and to strengthen the requirement for compulsory mediation before entering the courts. It has been claimed that ‘a large proportion’ of child law cases are caused by violence, sexual assault and psychiatry. Some believe that it is best for parental conflict cases to come to justice for such reasons. However, the court administration believes that this picture is not entirely correct. The family protection office in Trondheim believes that such conditions only apply in approx. 10 pst. of the cases. The point is that there is a potential to reduce the number of cases that come to the district court. In the Address Paper, the Director of the Court of Justice, Tor Langbach, states the following: ‘The courts spend $70 million a year on child distribution cases. Strengthening family protection offices would be a better resource use’. It's a little bit of the main point of the Christian People's Party. Like judges, we believe that several cases should be sent back to the family protection offices, which can take these matters quickly and put in experienced and particularly suitable brokers. This requires good contact and interaction between the district courts and the family protection offices, and not least, as the representative from the Right underlined, more resources to the family protection offices. It is the view of the Court of Justice, and it is the view of the Christian People's Party. The Children's Ombudsman also recommends in his report, Barna's voice stops in the storm, that mandatory mediation be introduced for several hours. The same is true of SINTEF in its comprehensive report on the mediation system. We are pleased that the government in our country has presented a big message about violence in close relations. We are also pleased that the Minister of the Child in ours has made a proposition on child protection. And we are pleased that the Minister for Children has put forward a proposal on changes in the law to protect children in the event of a risk of violence and abuse. It is also important for a child minister to listen to children, and not only to see the need to prevent crises but also to take action before the disaster is a fact. The government’s policy on family protection — or perhaps lack of such — may seem to be to use the boat instead of sealing the hole. We want the child's best. It's called family policy, and it's called prevention. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4283	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4286	Let me start by giving honor to the Christian People's Party, which holds the tab high for family protection. I'm glad. Family protection is a very important service, and I am personally a very big fan of family protection as well and have a lot of experience with it as the ‘divorce adult’ of my own growth, but also because I have a voice that has 25 years behind in family protection. We discuss family protection frequently. I also discuss very much with people who come to talk about child policy issues, family policy issues and gender issues in my office. There is a strong commitment that we should do something to make fewer children suffer from parental conflicts, and that we should get children's voice more forward. Because as has been pointed out, the children's voice has stopped in this storm – not only in the storm either, it has generally stopped in connection with divorces. It's right that the representative Thommes pointed out here, that there's part of these things that go well, very many actually. But there is also a tendency to forget the children and to focus heavily on adults. Getting the kids into the family protection offices is an important tip for me as a government council and for this government, and we're working on it. We have the "See me?" project, which we are developing. There are many other projects also around the family protection offices with which we gain experience, in order to spread them to all the offices. Then I just have to say that it is well done to claim that the red-green government has no family policy – well done, all the time we have increased parental leave by six weeks, nine weeks extra fathers have been granted leave, we have had a kindergarten development that does not look like anything that has happened before our time, a rights celebration to kindergarten – it is family policy so it holds, it also holds – strengthening child protection, strengthening the fight against family violence, ensuring that more women can go out to work and become self-sustaining and contribute to the family economy, so that more people get good finances, and they have better finances than ever before, etc., etc. I could just keep going. We discussed equality in the previous debate here. It also has very important family policy dimensions, of course. It is also the case that those who are more equal before a breakup are more likely to come to an agreement afterwards, and more often more extensive association with the children is agreed upon. It also benefits the children after fractures. So there's a lot of reasons to work for equality. It is absolutely imperative for me, as Minister of Children's Affairs and the Minister of Family Affairs and Gender Equality, that we do what we can to prevent both conflicts – prevent divorce to the extent possible and desirable, for sometimes it is also good for children that parents finally separate – and ensure that the children's voice emerges, ensure that the concern for the children should always go ahead. It is the best thing for the child to be in the high seat. I am concerned that we should help parents with a high level of conflict to resolve or mitigate conflicts through a good and accessible mediation offer in the family protection services and help improve parental cooperation. There are many suggestions for improving this offer, and I am listening to them. I'm not quite sure what makes sense, because there are different opinions out there, even among the Christian People's Party's trust elected otherwise. In the address paper, to which reference was made, a colleague of Dagrun Eriksen recently spoke against introducing three hours of mandatory mediation, and then got a dispute with the court administration, I noticed. I personally am open, but doubting that is the right grip. But next week I'm going to have a major seminar in Tønsberg, where we invite many different people who can do something about this – have researched it, are practitioners, have tried out models to listen to children – to a discussion about how we can ensure what I've said now, namely that we should have moderated conflicts, get a better offer for both children and parents, and ensure that the concern for the children is well taken care of. I look forward to that. I hope we have many discussions about family protection in the future as well. If this is the case that the Right Party and the Advance Party will then continue to say that it is important to further strengthen family protection in crowns and ears and refer to the budgets, I also hope that these parties will do so effectively in their budgets. It always gives you greater credibility when you're standing on a pulpit. The progress party has cut off family protection for two consecutive years. It doesn't give you very good credibility. But first of all, it's good to have a discussion about the professional content and how we can ensure that the children's voice comes out of silence, as it's often been so far, and that we listen to what they have to say, because they often have a lot of sense to tell us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4309	This is one of many things the Christian People's Party has promoted in the family field, which is not only about some social welfare schemes for family members, but it is also about including the family as a basic unit. I think it's very nice to hear that the Council of State is a fan of the family protection offices. They need a lot of fans. But they don't live by fans. They live on crowns and ears. One thing has puzzled me after I left the family and culture committee: Why have much of the efforts started by the Bondevik government to increase the funding of life courses and preventive lifelong measures, which might have helped to prevent us from getting there? Why have we not increased and continued the commitment to preventive co-operation, which would have made it possible that we had prevented some of the major issues of conflict we have been talking about today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4318	There are many preventive co-operation measures out there today. Some are run by health stations, some are run by non-governmental organisations, and some are run by family protection vessels. But the core task of family protection is to provide guidance, counseling, family therapy, so that parents can find out if they want each other, or if it's actually best that they separate. It is important for us to bring in child perspectives, so that children can say something about how they experience their situation. It can help to make parents realistic. At least it can help shed light on the situation. But there is no doubt that we want more family therapy related to the family protection offices. We've increased support for the family protection offices by $9 million. kr this year – in particular to focus on the fight against violence in close relationships, as we need, professional development and the issues of high conflict. We're also working on the multicultural perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4327	Family protection offices report to us that they are given time for many of these core tasks or the needs of mediation. But they also tell us that they could use the knowledge they get there to be much more present in terms of prevention. The court administration also says that if we had spent the money in the family protection offices, instead of in the courts, we would have been able to reach enormously much longer. I think that would have been an important matter. The council said in its speech that she would have a seminar. I think that's great. We have today asked for an action plan. We see that we are alone about it. But I think this field needs a greater cross-political attention. An action plan would make it possible for the seminar to be held by the Council of State, others to meet with her, and the things she is currently having doubts about could manifest itself on paper, as an action plan, where we are preventing. Why don't you want to take the Stortinge with you?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4336	For me, an action plan is not an end in itself. In that case, it's an instrument, but we have a lot of tools and plans in this area, which means that we know what direction we're going in. But we need to get some more knowledge about how things work. We need to do more development work – as we do in the case of high-conflict, violence in close relationships, bringing in the voice of children and the multicultural family protection provision. We know absolutely what we're doing, but I think it's exciting to listen to different opinions in this field, because that's it. There are breaks, and that allows us to get a more enlightened discussion about the way forward. But there is also an exciting proposal to look at whether this is possible, for example. moving some resources from the court to family protection. As Minister of Family Protection, of course I am. I think it is important that we avoid cases being brought before the courts when they should not. There are also some issues that should first and foremost go directly to the main debate and that should not be mediated. But it's a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4347	First of all, a little clarification: the party of progress does not cut the family budget. We strengthen the Church's Social Service's family protection offices, which are an important offer in the field of family protection. 3 000 couples are currently involved with the courts as regards the distribution of cohabitation by non-cohabitation. A simple question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State agree that father should be more equal in the event of a break-in, so that he also had his rights in the distribution of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4356	The answer to that is yes, and the best way to do it is to ensure that the father is equal before the breakup may occur. With regard to the policy of the Progress Party, I am very critical that everything is done to avoid becoming more equal before any breakup. It's about the father's quota, which we were in place, the cash support and other structural arrangements that can either help to allocate care tasks like or cement a pattern where mother is the natural care provider, while father is the one that provides the family income. In that case, it's hard to come after a break and say, "Now you're going to divide evenly." If you listen to the children, who I am concerned that we should do, they don't mean that you should just go on with a divided residence all over the spring. They're busy starting from their own reality, and then you can't put the kids into one template and say, "That's the way it should be." You have to see the individual differences, stimulate more equal parenthood before a breakup, and then stimulate that there will be the least possible conflict after a breakup, among other things. by taking the children into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4371	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4379	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Tåldal on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-12, by Mr Torgair Tåldal, on behalf of the Party for Progress and Right-wing Proposal No. 13, by Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 14-21, by Mr Törgeir Tåldal, on behalf of the Progressive Party, proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 24, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibility of setting up a multi-annual investment package outside the framework of the agricultural settlement which prioritises the upgrading of existing buildings and investment for small and medium-sized uses’.» The voting boards showed that 91 votes were cast against and 5 votes in favour of the proposal by the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.15.20]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4414	President! I would have liked to vote, but the lamp did not blink.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4419	President! It was on the screen that I had not voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4424	The President then proposes that we resume voting. - That's an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4436	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–21, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The agricultural production for 2013 is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for transfers to agriculture in line with other expenditure promoted in the State budget.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The budget requires the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to ensure that the framework conditions which cannot be defined for longer periods enter into the annual budgetary procedure. The financial year 2013 shall continue to be the transitional arrangement for 2013 with the amendments made to the revised national budget for 2013.’.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to the laws so that the obligation to live and operate and the regulation of the prices of agricultural property can be abolished.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the presentation of the State budget for 2014, to specify the taxes and taxes levied on agriculture as an industry.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for concrete measures to be promoted by the government in relation to the submission of the State budget for 2014 for the reduction of taxes on agriculture.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the Norwegian export subsidies for cheese production through the turnover tax applicable from 1 July 2013.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a system of marketable production quotas for cows' milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is country-wide.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4489	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a tax-advanced fund provision scheme based on the pattern of the forest fund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4504	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, which reads: ‘The government is asking for a review of market regulation mechanisms to see whether they work well enough for all actors in the value chain, as well as for proposals for changes that take particular account of consumers and for equal competition between operators in the industry. In the case of proposals for the relocation of sectors out of the current target price system, the options ‘the resolution of market organisations’ and ‘the chicken model’ shall always be explored and evaluated.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4519	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the right. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year’.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the Norwegian export subsidies for cheese production through the turnover tax.’ The Left has announced their support for the proposals, and the Progress Party has warned that they support the proposals in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4543	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-11, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to have a thorough review of the competition conditions in the dairy market as soon as possible with a view to maintaining and improving competition in the long term.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring an action for the Grand Duchy to amend the law on the prohibition of division of land.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to open up the model of a limited liability company as a form of agricultural activity.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive work on the development of niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to permit the sale of demonstrations and the provision of services by way of visits to or in connection with production premises.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all production regulations to be abolished if the processing is carried out on its own farm.’ [[such as milk quotas]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary changes to the alcohol law that permit the sale of demonstration goods and services by visiting production premises or related to them of locally produced alcohol.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the co-operation rules to increase flexibility and improve the possibilities for a varied and versatile use structure.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the geographical restrictions and the number of participants for participation in joint ventures, as well as the quota cap.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy for red tape in agriculture.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4608	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, saying, ‘The government asks it to draw up its own notification of investment in bioenergy in general and especially in agriculture.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4784	The President has realized that the Advance Party wants to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4802	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-8, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-8, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legal basis for the protection of cultivated land in the laws of the land, which allows the King to grant valuable soil resources the status of a soil protection area.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a national soil target for which a minimum number of fully cultivated plots per capita are set.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to tighten in and two parts of the soil protection target, so that the annual re-disposal of cultivated land shall be 3800 decaries per year, while the equivalent for arable land is 2800 decaries per year.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the establishment of a land-replacement fund, where the builder pays the corresponding costs of re-cultivation of the double area to be redispatched.» Proposal No. 7 reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that the gain on the voluntary sale of agricultural land is not taxed if the remuneration is used for investment in agricultural activity or new agricultural land.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the gain on the involuntary sale of land in agriculture is not taxed if the remuneration is used for investment in agricultural activities or new agricultural land.» [[fire, accidents, expropriation and similar]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4853	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a budgetary assessment of benefits and disadvantages by introducing a profit exemption in the case of voluntary and involuntary renunciation of cultivated land where the gain is reinvested in equivalent areas.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4874	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, saying, ‘Document 8:129 S [[2012-2013]] The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4896	During the debate, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the following framework for the opening of the Barents Sea south-east of petroleum activities: for the Barents Sea south-east, the same framework for petroleum activities as for the already opened areas in the Barents Sea south is hereby established. In the ice edge and polar front areas, no petroleum activity defined as the maximum ice prevalence based on the years 2001 to 2011 shall be started.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government requests that the following be taken into account by the Government to apply to the Barents Sea south-east in the 23rd concession round: when the companies are asked to nominate the area is not included: the area at the ice edge and the polar front in the northernmost parts of the area from 50 km from the maximum ice spread in a 50 km belt from the base line.» The Left has notified that they support the proposals. [[based on the years 2001-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4947	During the debate, Oskar J. Grimstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of proposals to facilitate the establishment of a gas exchange, a gas trading venue contributing to the availability of gas at an internationally competitive level to the Norwegian gas raw material industry and to the gas processing industry.’ Alternatively, this proposal on the setting up of the Committee shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e4974	During the debate, Henning Skumsvoll has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be drawn up to determine how the fiscal and concessional framework conditions for wind power generation can be designed in such a way that the communities concerned are guaranteed a share of the rent from wind power generation and compensation for local environmental disadvantages.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5003	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Henning Skumsvoll on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 5-9, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6 and 8, from the left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the budget requires the government to present a concrete multiannual allocation plan relating to the national ship protection plan.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a pilot project with grants for cultural memory management positions in the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5040	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5 and 9. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to file a case on the extended possibilities for municipalities to intervene against speculative building decay.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals for enhanced appropriations to NPISHs in the field of cultural protection, thus complementing public cultural protection efforts.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5064	There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy on how to strengthen training in conservation crafts and small and protective subjects, including in cooperation with other Nordic countries.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5081	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a model of prioritisation and financing of archaeological excavations that provides a better balance between the decision on excavation and costs and its financing.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5098	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to submit a case that the State assumes financial responsibility for archaeological excavations when required by private property.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5113	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the State budget for 2014 to present proposals for deductions from taxable profit for the costs of maintaining peaceful buildings outside activities, and to propose the winding-up of local authorities’ access to property taxes on private-owned peaceful buildings.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to restore the Cultural Memory Fund as a fund – in the State budget for 2014.’ The left has notified that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5153	During the debate, Mr Tenden put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal has been distributed in the Chamber. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a minimum limit of 35 km from countries where new oil production is not to be opened, while not opening up oil production in the areas currently closed to such activities.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5188	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward by Mr Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is distributed in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 5. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to give the overall responsibility for overwater to the NVE as this is closely linked to the NVE’s responsibilities for flooding and migration.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen NVE’s work on flooding, flooding and migration, and to ensure that the NVE can assist municipalities and counties in their planning and land deployment to prevent Norwegian society from constantly building up new vulnerability’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to confirm and assign State responsibility for sea level increases to DSB that have already integrated this in climate adaptation work.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to confirm that the Secretariat for Climate Change is maintained in the DSB and further strengthened. Climate adaptation is a cross-sectoral theme and the responsibility for ensuring the social value of life and health requires this to be seen in the context of social security work.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the Environment Directorate in its work on the impact of climate change on marine ecology, pollution and natural diversity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5246	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 9–16, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–16, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a car and fuel tax to make it more profitable to choose low-emission cars or to use alternative emission-free or emission-neutral fuels, such as hybrids, electric cars and biofuels.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to strengthen the reward scheme for public transport.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains to operate on zero-emission or climate-neutral fuels by the end of 2022.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all new municipal, county and state vehicles to run on CO2-free or CO2-neutral fuel by the end of 2018.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish and promote an ambitious and quantifiable national energy efficiency improvement target for 2020 and 2040’.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a strategy for the deletion of surplus allowances in the European allowance market to be promoted by the government [[ETS]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the implementation by 2020 of at least one full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the possibility of establishing full-scale CO2 capture and single-point storage in the border area industry’.» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5326	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-8, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to put in place support schemes for the conversion and replacement of household oil fires and for the baseload of other buildings.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an annual return from the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund of 4 per cent.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the appropriateness of a Norwegian climate legislation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a case on a national cross-sectoral biogas strategy.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce tax credits for documented expenditure on energy efficiency improvement in households.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate shore-side electricity for ferries and cruise ships in several ports.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of the current exemption from the user fee for alternative fuels until 2020.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the establishment of a new coal-fired power plant with CO2 cleaning and storage from day one on Svalbard.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5390	During the debate, Mr Starheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party – proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose an overall plan for the renewal and upgrade of the water supply and sewerage network, in which they describe and assess the following instruments included: 1. Establish economic incentives for municipalities, including interest-free loans for the rehabilitation of VA facilities. 2nd@item: inlistbox Set recommended guidelines for a minimum standard of serviceability and technical condition on the water supply and sewerage system, including adaptation to the EU Water Directive. 3rd@item: inlistbox Contribute to enhancing competence and recruitment to the water and sewerage infrastructure sector. 4th@item: inlistbox Launch investigations for the development and research of a better VA infrastructure. 5th@item: inlistbox Review and, where appropriate, revise the current charging rules. It is assumed that fees will continue to be set on a self-cost basis. 6th@item: inlistbox supplement the regulations with rules for budgeting, accounting, auditing and control. 7th@item: inlistbox Ensure that private operators are given the opportunity to build and operate VAR facilities and to provide services in the VAR sector.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5425	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5442	In the course of the debate, a total of seven proposals have been put forward by Mrs Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. Proposals Nos. 1 to 7 is distributed in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the left: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the reintroduction of a specialist home so that businesses are more able to hire migrant workers from outside the EEA territory.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce a job application visa so that persons outside the EEA can apply for a job in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5468	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the extension of ‘early start of work’ by allowing enterprises, educational and research institutions to be approved in advance so that foreign workers can start their work while the Directorate for Foreign Affairs is examining the application.’ [[UDI]] The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5485	There is a vote on the 4-7 proposals from the Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the recognition system for foreign education and for a time limit to facilitate and speed up the recognition of foreign education.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to simplify the procedures for the renewal/renewal of work permits’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work with a view to simplifying both rules and procedures in order to ensure the rapid approval of job seekers to Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up guidelines for the police districts facilitating the receipt of applications for employment and residence and requiring applications received to be sent to the UDI within a short period of time.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5535	A total of 35 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party, proposals No. 15-18, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 19 from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 20, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 21-25, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 26 and 27, by Olemic Thommessen, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 28-35, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–27 is included in the setting on page 15. Proposals Nos. 28-35 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 28 and No 30 to 34, from the left. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for several men to take care of their jobs by, inter alia, introducing a scheme for the write-down of student loans for men who take care of their education and who have worked for five years in the care sector.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the rights of self-employed workers in a comprehensive manner and to propose improvements in sickness-related rights, care for own children, nursing and training allowances and pensions.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose exemptions from the employer's liability for sickness benefits for women in pregnancy.» [[employee period]] Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to three-thirds of the parental leave and to make the scheme more flexible with regard to withdrawals of social benefits between parents and beyond three years.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to introduce real non-discrimination between mother and father in the parental pension legislation by granting the father the independent right to parental leave, including the parental allowance.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the introduction of a pool of skills for highly educated workers in low-level public sector professions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5604	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29 and 35, from the left. Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the allocation of funds for the preparation of the syllabus and the establishment of places for a three-year vocational training course in the field of career guidance.» Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to reintroduce the 80 pst contribution from the State. the costs of each crisis centre established in the municipalities.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5626	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–25, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the advisory service both in secondary and secondary schools, inter alia, with a view to increasing the choice of gender-based education and careers.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up concrete measures to stimulate more people to take untraditional professional choices in order to reduce gender segregation in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen language training and other targeted measures to enable more women with a minority background to participate in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of non-governmental organisations contributing in particular to the integration of immigrant and refugee women into Norwegian society.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen community information on Norway, in particular for persons residing after family reunification.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5666	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on setting up its own national rapporteur against trafficking in human beings.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5683	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a stronger focus on health and care research in combination with a women’s incubator programme in the sector.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5700	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that family violence coordinators in the police districts are not used for tasks other than the work against violence in close relations.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5717	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Party of Prosperity, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the advisory service both in secondary and secondary schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5732	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–18, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a change to the Working Environment Act to allow more flexible working time arrangements so that employees can have more influence on their working situation, both in terms of length and location, and better facilitate working time arrangements that are easier to reconcile with full-time jobs.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a proposal to give the Labour Inspectorate general access to exemptions from the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act, inter alia. to reduce the need for part-time.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a level of competence for the women’s dominated professions as in the childcare and care sectors.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more flexible child care admissions and for a better transition between the parental leave period and the right to nursery leave so that many women do not have to take unpaid leave.’ Left has announced support for the proposals
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5770	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-14, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider presenting its own case with concrete measures to increase the gender balance in the academy.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the rights of self-employed workers in a comprehensive manner, to assess whether the rights of self-employed workers related to sickness, care for their own children, care and training, and to pension ensure the desire for increased female entrepreneurship in private business, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a right to require a permanent post corresponding to real working hours.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether the legislation on parental leave can be amended with a view to improving the real capacity of the father to take parental leave and to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how best to organise the work against sexualised violence and sexual abuse, including the creation of its own groups dealing with sexualised violence and sexual assaults in each police district.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its preventive efforts to reduce the scale of violence and sexual violence, by strengthening the school health service and the health care service so that they have the necessary skills to capture families in crisis.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen research efforts on the extent and consequences of sexual violence.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the strengthening of family protection in the years to come’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own national victim care services.’ [[immediately]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure better competence and ability in the overall public aid system to detect trafficking in human beings, sexualised violence and violence in close relations far better than today.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for much better coordination of the overall cross-ministerial work against coerciveness, violence in close relations and honour-related violence.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that notified changes in the police district structure contribute to an increased focus on combating sexualised violence against women and increasing the fight against trafficking in human beings.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to give priority to education, especially for girls, in its development policy.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen its efforts to combat sexualised violence in war and conflict situations and, in particular, to follow up Security Council Resolution 1325.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5861	During the debate, two proposals were put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to review and evaluate the public offer to parents who need assistance in the event of a break-up and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5891	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan for better parental cooperation after a break in life’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5910	When voting on the proposals from the Left in case No. 19 in the Stortinges meeting yesterday did not get the vote on the proposals No. 2 and 6 registered in the system. The President therefore requests that there be a vote on the proposals now in order to get it formal. – The President considers it to have been approved. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate work with a view to proposing amendments to the legal framework for the equalisation of temporary employment in the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government is asked to make proposals to clarify the provisions of the Working Environment Act on what is meant by «independent position» [[excepted by the Working Environment Act on Working Time/Overtime, etc.]] The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-19.ana.ud1552e5942	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
