ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e296	The representatives Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Karin Andersen, Øyvind Waksdal and Wenche Olsen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e314	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Councillor Kristin Halvorsen will transfer 3 kgl. propositions – when she comes. We're going to get back to that. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 – and will add: well and well. At the request of the Committee on Churches, Education and Research, the President will propose that case No. 1 to 5 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e380	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that, as a way of drawing on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, they should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is still no State Council present. The president asks the committee whether it is okay that we should still start the debate – a rather long debate is planned, and we get to believe that the Council of State is being briefed on the content being presented. If that is right, we will start with the rapporteur on the matter – which is Tord Lien. Elisabeth Aspaker has asked for the floor. The President assumes that this is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e393	Yes, it is on the Rules of Procedure. I think it is completely irresponsible and incomprehensible that the Council of State has not come. I actually want to oppose the fact that we are starting the debate before the Council of State is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e400	If someone feels that it is wrong to make posts without the Council of State being present, the President will, of course, recommend that the Stortinge comply with this wish. – Then there is only one thing to do, as there is no other state council present – which is therefore reasonable, as the expected debate time on the first issues is four hours. The President will propose that we suspend the Storting meeting and that it be called again when the Council of State shows up. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. - What's going on? -------------- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 10.07
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e411	The state councils have invented themselves. We have already adopted the debate. The royal propositions the Council of State is going to convey, we're going to get back to. As I said, the debate has been adopted. First speaker is Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e418	As the President has explained, this debate on the communication of research and the examination of several other issues by the Church, Education and Research Committee. I will concentrate my dossier on the research report, and not so much on Document No. The eight proposals, which I am sure will be taken care of in later speeches in today's debate. When I stand here, it is primarily as a party representative. I still allow myself to start a little personal. I want to say that I have been at Stortinget for eight years, and this has been one of the most rewarding work I have participated in. Vice-Chancellors, Deans, professors and organizations have actively contributed to the best possible way of dealing with this matter by Storting. For my part, it has been almost a journey of formation to lead this process. Now this education journey has mainly taken place within Ring 3, but equally full. Then I would also like to thank my colleagues in the committee for allowing me to direct this work, but also for what I have experienced has been very constructive cooperation across the parties, both internally in the block and to a large extent between the blocks. I think that's good. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Knowledge for both informative answers and for some of the responses to the requests sent by the Committee. The committee is behind much of the option. For me and for the Progress Party, it has been an objective in itself: to get the widest possible majority behind the main lines of Norwegian research policy. I feel that there has to a large extent been the review tone in the other parties as well. Whether we're talking about universities, colleges, institutes or others that are involved in research, for example. in business, predictability is very much needed – predictability regardless of who wins the autumn elections. I'm sure the right-hand side will do that. But we have to have predictability that goes beyond the four-year period. We cannot leave to universities, colleges, institutes and businesses to plan strategic knowledge work based on four-year horizons. We have to facilitate a longer horizon than that. I believe that the Committee's work has contributed to this. We have a broad political anchoring too much of the main lines of the Communication and also, in fact, a relatively broad political anchoring beyond the content of the Government Communication. We have a whole seven proposals which will be adopted unanimously today. Overall, the Committee has spent a lot of time in four areas. Others are given an explanation of their weight. I have focused on the internationalisation of the Norwegian Academy in general and research in particular, the debate on relevance and/or quality of work and academics, the need for a pooling of human and financial resources around environments that can bring Norwegian research into the division it should be, and research infrastructure. We do not agree on everything, but we largely agree on the description of reality, and also to some extent on the direction in which the instruments should be set up in the future. On internationalization, it is to say that we are a small and sparsely populated country on the world's absolute edge, on the other side of the world of where people live most. Therefore, participation in international cooperation on research of fundamental importance is for Norway. We need to do that to follow international research fronts – but also to do our job of helping to move them. We need to do this to recruit talent from abroad to Norwegian research and education institutions. We need to do this in order to strengthen Norwegian business and manage international networks, and we simply need to participate in international research cooperation to ensure the quality of what we are doing in Norway. We must do this by exposing this – to colleagues abroad. Academia in Norway has a long and strong tradition of interaction with the Pangerman and Anglo-Americans in the field of culture. If we take Japan into that category, we can call it the comfort zone of the Norwegian Academy – with long traditions. We get it done, and we've done it for a long time. The institutions that have succeeded in interacting with German, British and Japanese institutions have been called internationalised. It can't be like that in the future. We need to maintain and strengthen the relationships we have with these countries, obviously, but we need to be outside the comfort zone in the future, among other things. to establish interaction with the countries that are subsequently called the BRICS countries: Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. These are rapidly growing economies that are increasingly important for research internationally and increasingly for the world economy. I hope that both the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will read the statement, stating that the Committee will see it as an advantage if positions were created dedicated to research and innovation cooperation at the Norwegian embassies in Brazil and South Africa. We don't have those today. Internationalisation must begin somewhere. Let me go into the PhD system a little bit. It is a strength – I think everyone agrees – that many foreigners come to Norway and help raise the quality of the programmes we have in Norway. In terms of marine technology and petroleum technology, we are totally dependent on foreign citizens. It is hardly lucky that we are making some disciplines in Norway entirely dependent on migration. But it is good that Norway and Norwegian research systems are attractive to foreigners. It's obvious that it enhances the quality of what we're doing. When the NIFU report of 2012, with a doctorate in the workplace, was published in winter, it was a big debate that it is a problem that so many people go home. I agree. It is a problem that so many of the foreign nationals who come to Norway leave the country immediately after they have taken their PhD. Here. When the debate went on about this report in winter, it seemed as if it were almost just Tord Lien and the Progress Party who were concerned that so few nordics were going out. Only 7 pst. by the Nordics, after having completed their doctor's degree, they leave. in Norway. It does not contribute to the internationalisation of Norwegian research. That's why I'm glad that a joint committee agrees that it must be an objective that more nordics go out after graduating from PhD. I am pleased that what is today the minority, but that until the fall will be the majority in the Grand Duchy – Right, Christian People’s Party, Left and the Advance Party – promotes proposals to establish incentive schemes to get more Norwegians to leave after graduating from PhD. It will strengthen the internationalisation of Norwegian research. The 7th EU Framework Programme for Research is in the process of being phased out. It shall be replaced by a new and somewhat different programme, which shall also include innovation, namely the EU Horizon 2020. When the Communication was presented, the government chose to spread uncertainty about Norwegian participation in the next EU research programme, despite the fact that the Communication is full of praise for the importance of Norwegian research on participation in EU Framework Programmes. The government also says that Horizon 2020 will be even more adapted to the Norwegian research and education environments. It is therefore very gratifying that a unanimous committee clearly states that Norway should participate in Horizon 2020. The alternative would have been that the major Norwegian research universities had to interact with the European B team in terms of research, and that the vast majority of universities had been excluded from participating in European research cooperation. The fact that a unanimous committee today says that we are joining in is very good. At the same time, it is important to maintain the balance between adaptation to the EU and to strengthen research fields of national importance. It is an objective to maximise the quota for the various EU research programmes, but it must not be an overarching objective. We're already participating in programs that have a cost of twelve times the quota. Norwegian researchers participate in EU research programmes with a price of 12 times the Norwegian quota. We get a lot left for European research cooperation regardless of whether we get heads for heads get everything back to Norway. It is also important to bet where we have a knowledgeable, natural or nutritional advantage, such as: in the field of cancer, where we have competences, in the field of arctic, where we have natural advantages, and in the case of energy, where we have knowledgeable, natural and not least nutritional advantages. I want to praise the government in an area that combines these things – increasing efforts on European research and EU programmes and focusing on what we are good at. The efforts of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and other departments have resulted in the establishment of the Joint Programming Initiatives (Joint Programming Initiatives) under the auspices of the EU. Then you combine both, you make the EU bet on something we're good at. We have to do more of that. In this international context, we must also see the Committee's desire for progress in the establishment of the Global Centres of Expertise. It is a mechanism that stimulates interaction between enterprises and academies with strong international positions, where companies and academia can play together well in Norway, and play on each other's networks outside. Although Trond Giske does not have the habit of appearing in the staging room when we discuss research, I hope that he reads the position at least, where it is clear and clear that a unanimous church, education and research committee assumes that there must be ten years of funding horizon also on the Global Centres of Expertise, and that any plans for a more short-term funding horizon will be abandoned. To establish structures for interaction between academia and business, the time horizon must be of a certain size. The NCEs have had five plus five, it should also have the Global Centres of Expertise. A major or minor concern is the debate and balance between relevance and quality. I want to start by stressing, as it stands in the setting as well, that there is no relevance without quality. It cannot be said that education and research are relevant to anything, unless they are also of high quality. The aim must be to strengthen the relevance of working life without jeopardising quality. The Academy has several roles to play: it will create the foundation for a cultural nation, create the opening up of common universal values, and also contribute to a competent and forward-looking working life. A one-sided focus on relevance to work today will cause some loss. Candidates who can do the same as today's employees cannot challenge the business they are going to be involved in. We're going to do research on what business is doing, it's often said. No, we're not going to do that. We're going to be researching what business is going to do in the future, in 15 years, 30 years, 45 years – we're going to do that. Some of these debates on research often end up dealing with New Public Management, so I want to be clear that all the parties in the Norwegian pothole in this setting are behind the counterside system, New Public Management, as the overall management system. But all the parties, at least almost, at least the Progress Party, are concerned that the counting edge system also means that not everything is going to be completely optimal. If you're just going to do research on what you know to prove, if you're just going to do research on hypothesis, you know that you can prove, something's going down the road. I have a lot of pages left in my script, but I'm not going to get it, so I'm going to get back to my other considerations about these questions later. I have now explained the position and I am addressing the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e477	The representative Tord Lien then addressed the proposals he mentioned, which were included in the vote. It opens for cord changes, limited to up to four lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e482	I am pleased that the rapporteur has highlighted the importance of having knowledge-based development, knowledge-based management and knowledge-based business. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for doing a good job of promoting a comprehensive knowledge view throughout the message. However, in one area, the Progress Party has a completely different approach: the Progress Party is unable to participate in writing one sentence together with the rest of the majority on the need for a knowledge-based policy in the field of climate change. Not one sentence manages the Progress Party to write about the importance of Norwegian researchers participating heavily in international climate cooperation. Is it because research in this area is so incredibly uncomfortable with the policies of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e487	Thank you, Mr Sørensen, for your good words on the role of the rapporteur. I just wanted to start by stressing that there is no research field that is unpleasant to the Progress Party. The representative is also wrong – perhaps she should read the position again – for the first report of a Joint Committee, including the Progress Party, whether climate research is on page seven or eight. It's a unanimous committee comment, so it's not right that we don't. Then we have chosen to write about climate research in a separate note. There we take a study that the government has ordered and that has been carried out on behalf of the Norwegian Research Council. It says exactly what the Progress Party points to: There is a need for greater breadth and more free climate research in Norway. That is what the Progress Party believes it is important to establish.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e496	The majority of the Committee stresses the importance of the high ambitions Norway has for environmental research. The loss of natural diversity and climate change are the two main environmental challenges facing humanity. To achieve results in international environmental policies, major international knowledge and research processes are needed, to which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a good example. The Progress Party says that they agree that efforts for basic research on climate, including in order to increase the understanding of natural climate variations, should be strengthened. My question is then whether the Progress Party will increase the effort on climate research in general, or whether they will distort the allocations on what they call natural climate variations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e501	It's been like this, I remember, that in dealing with this case, we've spent a lot of time discussing pure quality parameters, and with a very strong focus on relevance, it's going to be useful for something. The impression of my party and of the Progress Party is that the relevant focus has taken full advantage of climate research. There is a great deal of political control, and according to the Norwegian Research Council’s own evaluation, climate research is too little based on quality parameters. We want to do something about that. The Progress Party is making choices to strengthen scientific and technological research in a broad sense. Of course, it will also apply to the research on the kind of questions that we're talking about here, whether it's geology, meteorology, biology, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e507	I would also like to express my thanks to Mr Lien for the good work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I noticed that Lien was concerned with predictability in research policy beyond the four-year period and very concerned with the broad political anchoring. There's a lot we've written together in this setting. Nevertheless, the Right is skeptical of a ten-year plan, they also do not look at the research policy objectives, and there is a difference in the timing of the GDP target. I was just wondering if the representative Lien could say anything about what kind of predictability he thinks this gives to the sector, if, against assumption, it would be a different government constellation for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e514	Thank you for your words. It is Siv Jensen who is expressing his opinion on the government cooperation on behalf of the Progress Party, but I can nevertheless say that we are going to vote to rule together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who are fully in agreement with us. The Christian People's Party and the Left have probably a little bit more ambition for reaching the 3pst goal, but the three parties agree that we need a long-term plan. We have noted that the sector also agrees. The three parties will probably go into the government negotiations with that starting point, and then the Right will explain why they believe what they mean. I note that there is considerable consensus both on the civil side – at least between three of the parties – and in and of a much larger majority in the Stortinget. So I am sure that on the right-hand side we are fully able to create the predictability that the representative Tingelstad Wøien is asking for. I have also not received very many critical comments on this from the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e525	Norway has climate scientists who are among the world’s leaders. I think it is nice that the rapporteur cannot recognise it. We have researchers who make heavy contributions to the greatest scientific knowledge process that takes place in the most important area we have in our future, namely climate research. The job of Norwegian researchers in the United Nations Panel on Climate Change deserves recognition from a broad and unanimous majority in Stortinget. I understand that there are quite other researchers the Progress Party will be investing in in the future. What I want to ask the representative, which I think is absolutely essential for us to have a knowledge-based development, is: does he think it is right that we give priority to Norwegian top-level researchers in the climate to contribute heavily to the UN Climate Panel, and should we continue to prioritise it for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e532	I think the representative Sørensen may not have listened well enough to what I have said, at least in the line change with Karin Yrvin. On the contrary, I emphasised very clearly that it is precisely quality that has to count. I don't want to stand here and point out which researchers are going to get money. To the appeal points that Sørensen raises: there is no place in the setting that we do not want to bet on this. On the contrary, it says that we want an increased stake, but we do not want a politicisation of this. I fully agree that many of those who work with climate issues in Norway are world leaders in what they are doing. A stronger focus on quality in the allocation of funds will mean that these researchers will receive more funding and will be able to contribute even more significantly. I mean – and I demand respect for that – that there is a red thread going through our entire position: political governance of research, whether it be climate research, whether it be electoral research – whatever it is – we are skeptical of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e539	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e542	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Lien, for a very good work and for a very good cooperation. Norway is well placed to become a country for excellent research. The stories about areas that we've made up our minds are for fascination and enthusiasm. It's only nice to hear Professor Stenseth tell you about how we've brought salmon from being willing to become a domestic animal, through basic research. Norway is in the front line. It's fascinating to see how the Moser sect has built up a strong research environment and discovered the grid cells, which have a key function in the brain's work to give us a sense of place. Norwegian researchers are at the forefront of solving the mysteries that are going on in our brain. And not least, it's nice to read about the development of multi-phase technology. It has made it possible to reduce dramatically the production costs of oil and also to open up oil fields that would otherwise not be propelling. This and a lot of other examples show that we can be in the front line, that we have good results, that we have reason to be proud of our universities and colleges, and of the business research that is going on. There has been a lot of research under the red-green government. As of 2005, research appropriations have grown by around 6.7 billion. kr, or whole 32 pst. Under the red-green government, research and development efforts in the state budget have increased from 0.8 pst. of GDP in 2005 to 0,92 pst. of GDP in 2013. This has produced results to the extent that research can be quantitatively measured. Of the countries compared in the research survey, Norway has seen the highest growth in the number of articles published. The number of articles published has increased by 84 pst. from 2001 to 2011. In the case of quotations, we are above the EU-15 average. But we can get better. We want to give predictability to research and to confirm the high ambitions of the sector. Norway shall have a well-functioning research system, a high quality of research, a high level of internationalisation in research and an effective exploitation of research resources and results. Once the Committee has politically ended up dealing with the main features of the communication, it shows just high ambitions. We'll bet together on the knowledge society to stand ready to meet tomorrow's challenges. We will focus on predictability and long-termity for our researchers and research communities. We are united behind most of the tools that are needed to get good research in this country. We depend on research and higher education efforts to be long-term, coordinated and clearly prioritised. A 10-year long-term national research plan shall be established. The aim is to ensure predictability and improve quality. At the same time, the long-term plan will provide for innovative and cross-border research that can give us a new recognition in the long term. It shall include priorities for research and higher education and shall provide leadership for investment from a 10-year perspective. It concerns construction, research infrastructure, scholarships and study places. Such a plan has been sought by the sector, and it is a pleasure here to also signify the firm efforts of the Council of State to put such a plan into place. Other measures now being queried are the introduction of a test scheme for entry positions for particularly talented, younger researchers. A system for several doctoral degrees in public enterprises, similar to that currently available for doctoral degrees in cooperation with industry, shall be investigated. Research results shall be made available and disseminated in a language that facilitates the use of knowledge by users. The use of temporary units shall be reduced. More efforts will be made to link research and education, including: through student-active research. An assessment shall assess whether the overall funding of universities and higher education institutions is appropriate to stimulate good quality and to promote institutions in disciplines where they have special advantages. We got important and important recordings in the consultation round. There was a desire for more focus on the nutritional part of research, because there's no doubt that this is where we have a challenge. The public share of research efforts is high. But in business, too little is invested if we're to achieve the goal of matching 3 pst. GDP. The state cannot take responsibility for research into business, but the state can take responsibility for the fact that there are incentives at the bottom that make business more researchable. We are therefore pleased to be able to show that the TaxFUNN scheme was significantly improved in proposals for a revised State budget. We refer to the text that focuses on the BIA system and that there is agreement on how good the GCE system is. Research policy shall focus on five strategic objectives, where research shall contribute to meeting global challenges, in particular in the fields of environment, climate, sea, food security and energy. It's all agreed, except for the Right. It shall further contribute to good health, less social health differences and high-quality health and care services, as well as research-based welfare policies and the exercise of professional skills in welfare services, and to a knowledge-based business life throughout the country, as well as to the development of businesses in the fields of food, marine, maritime, travel, energy, environment, biotechnology, ICT and new materials. We think these objectives are important, and we have some depths: Norway is facing major challenges. There are increasing numbers of older people in this country. Where there were four workers behind each pensioner around 1970, there will be about two in 2030. This affects the generation accounts. These accounts are the glues of society. It's assumed that we get from the state when we're young, that we pay into the community when we have strong back and can work, and that we get back when we become seniors. These accounts must be aggregated. If we are to fund the welfare society of our children in the future, we must make sure that we meet the demography with research and technological development. To meet this challenge, the Committee will focus on dementia and ageing research in health and welfare research. The climate challenges we are facing are undisputable. The majority have stressed the importance of the high ambitions Norway has for environmental research. Research into working life is also important and has been placed in the Committee's comments. Petroleum research is not part of the new EU programme Horizon 2020. It has been particularly necessary to focus on this research in Norway. These areas reflect, in particular, key societal and business challenges in our country, and they are close to international spheres of activity. We have had a thorough real-life examination of the research communication in the committee. That means that we have made some suggestions on other points we think are necessary to have a good research policy in the country. It's a majority to: present a report on the quality of studies in higher education stimulates increased competition in order to contribute to higher quality in Norwegian research, including strengthening the open programmes of the Research Council, in particular in the field of basic research stimulating more research in industry and for stronger interaction between academia and industry, focus more on international excellence in research environments and university environments at the global summit, following the model of the GCEs. To further enhance the quality of Norwegian research and higher education, international cooperation needs to be more closely integrated into the everyday lives of several Norwegian researchers. There is agreement to contribute to the further internationalisation of Norwegian research through association with the European Research Area ERA, full participation in Horizon 2020 and the development of programme cooperation with leading research nations. There is a majority in favour of establishing an electoral research programme and there is agreement to propose to increase investment in advanced scientific equipment and other research infrastructures to allow Norwegian researchers access to world-class equipment. We're happy about that. We have wanted a consensus behind the main lines of research policy, and I would say that we have achieved, with some important exceptions that we will probably get closer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e601	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e604	Thanks to the representative Yrvin for the good words. I have also appreciated the cooperation we have had. The fundamental to the debate on Norwegian research policy is the so-called 3 pst. goal, the goal of 1 pst. GDP shall be publicly funded research and that 2 pst. GDP shall be research carried out by and, where appropriate, by industry. In the public debate, we get a lot of excuses as to why you don't reach the 2 pst target for business, even though you obviously know what kind of instruments work. I think that if you should have followed up on the otherwise very good cooperation and agreement that has been in this case, we should have managed to agree on a time fixing of when you can reach the 3 pst. goal. What is it that makes the Workers' Party not set to be involved in such a temporalization?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e611	As the representative says, we have not achieved the 3 pst. goal, and there are many reasons for what is actually real. We have many small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, which make it difficult to get research intensity, and we have important sectors that are excluded from the accounts. But the reason we didn't want to set the goal is because we don't feel that we can oblige the private industry to do more research. We can give them incentive systems, so we have, among other things, established SkatteFUNN, but to say to business that within a year you will be researching more, we believe is an over-management of business, which such parties as the Progress Party usually do not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e616	To follow up the previous line: The working party is a party that is engaged in value creation and active industrial policy, I understand. The major challenge in extending the discussion on the 3 pst target is to achieve a significantly stronger research effort in business. So here it's like that, for example. The Research Council has said that it will require significantly stronger public instruments. Nevertheless, the research report is almost chemically free of that type of thinking and initiative. There are no new measures to strengthen the efforts of business there, no new incentives. The representative Yrvin himself mentioned in his statement that there was a strengthening of the SkatteFUNN in connection with this so-called crisis package that came under review. Why can we not strengthen these instruments until the crisis strikes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e621	Thank you for the question. With regard to our commitment to value creation, I thank the representative for the fact that we are a party dedicated to it. In the Communication, there is a strong focus on industry’s research efforts. Firstly, we share the problem description, that this is where the challenge lies, that there is a strong commitment in the public sector to research in Norway, and that what we can do now is to strengthen incentives. What we've done is -- as you mention -- to grant 100 million. kr more in the revised State budget of the SkattenFUNN scheme. It's real means. Then we say in the committee position that we believe that the BIA is a good tool that we have to continue. We're also betting on the GCEs, as an important addition to these instruments we have. It is up to the future government budget to see how to discuss how business is to trigger more research resources, but I think we should agree that, after all, it is the responsibility of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e629	In the South, we have a business that is doing its job in research and development. By creating clusters, by expanding quite considerably over the past few years and even getting a National Centre of Expertise in place, they contribute quite a lot. In parallel with this, the new University of Agder has been held down with a lack of funding for, among other things. research. These two areas of activity are not interrelated. Is it the case that the government parties believe that the new universities should be at such a constant low level of research funding and thus prevent the university from becoming a worthy partner with the business community, which goes like the sluice of the South?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e634	Yes, representative, first I would like to say that I share the representative's description of how well things are in Agder. We have been there to work on the research report. It's a living environment, but one of the challenges they have is the lack of labour. With regard to the funding of the new universities, the Committee opinion states that the funding system for universities and colleges should be reviewed. I'm assuming that the new universities are also part of such a review, but it has to be seen in a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e641	It is true that the President is also a representative, but the most common form of appeal is probably 'President'.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e644	I've learned a quote once about never living in the long term with someone you love, you have to have a much shorter perspective for the one you're happy with. This government will achieve a long-term research objective. You don't want to fix it, but you have to have a plan for how to get there. It is believed that business needs more research, but it is not that concerned about how to facilitate more research into business. Is this goal really worth anything when you're going to live in the long term? Are you really happy with that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e649	I would like to refer to the first answer I gave, that when we don't want to fix the goal, it's because we then oblige business to research more than they might possibly know. But I want to say that the 3 pst. goal is fixed. We share that, and we share the description, but we didn't want to make time-consuming business research efforts. What we wanted to do is to point out the tools we have for triggering just business research. There we have the TaxFUNN scheme, we talk nice about the BIA scheme, and we have among other things. The GCE arrangements. I want to say that we're happy with the 3pst goal, but we have a slightly different angle on how we're going to get business to research more, and how we're going to impose on them a research effort given the business structure we have, and the challenges we have to trigger the research efforts of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e654	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e657	We are probably more members of the Church, Education and Research Committee who have looked forward to the debate here today, and I would also like to take the opportunity, on behalf of the Right, to thank Mr Tord Lien for a very good work on the Research Communication. I think it is time for research policy to be recognised as perhaps the most strategic policy area we have today. When talking about strategic policies in the past, it may have been primarily defence and security policy that pointed out itself as the important policy area for – let's say – a country's destiny and the future of a country. I believe that there is reason to say that research policy – at least knowledge policy in general – has taken on this role. That's the overall policy we're talking about. It is a cross-sectoral policy, and it is perhaps the policy area that is most important for the future of a country. It's about developing the knowledge nation, it's about securing the future, and it's about having a readiness to know that it's going well in the country over the years to come. To a very large extent, research policy has to do with a very long-term perspective. Of course, the government has also taken this into account in the research communication – not least in the title of the communication. Worldwide, we see massive investment in research, the development of new knowledge and new technologies. In many ways it can be said that the international arms race today has been replaced by a knowledge race. And it's interesting to note that countries that have had or still have demanding security challenges, for example. Three countries, such as Israel, Singapore and South Korea, are also among the countries in the world that are all committed, most of all to research and technology development. All three countries I mentioned have a bet of about. 5 pst. GDP. In Norway, therefore, we are discussing whether to have a 3 pst. target, which most developed countries have, and which is also recommended by the European Union, and we know that we are far below this target today. In addition to the countries I mentioned, this applies to several other countries, and it is tempting to draw out our Nordic neighbouring countries as well. In Sweden, the investment in research is almost 4 pst. of GDP, and Swedish GDP is not much smaller than Norwegian. I think Sweden may never have forgiven us that Norway went past Sweden in terms of GDP a few years ago, but it is not that big a difference. What is the big difference, if we compare Norway with Sweden, is that Swedish business accounts for a significant share of the national research effort. As far as I remember, Swedish business researches today for approx. 2.6 pst. of Swedish GDP, while Norwegian industry is researching for approx. 0.7 pst. – maybe a little more – of Norwegian GDP. So there's a big difference between Norwegian and Swedish business. At the same time, both Norway and Sweden are relatively small countries. Norway is probably even smaller and, to a greater extent, a foreign country, and for a country such as Norway, positioning in this field is becoming important. If research policy is considered an important strategic policy area, it is very important for Norway how we think and how we plan to position ourselves. What will be our contribution to solving the world's major challenges? What do we need, first of all, out of knowledge? And how does Norway become more attractive as a co-operative country? We are seeing increasing international cooperation in this area. In the field of trade, it is said that the experts operate with three success criteria: location, location, location. I am tempted to say that for research the three main factors must be: quality, quality, quality. In a country that is highly dependent on one sector, both directly and indirectly purely economically, both in business and in government budgets, it is important to ensure high-quality research in selected areas of major importance for Norway and to ensure technology and knowledge transfer from the large sector today — oil and gas — to other industries and industries. It may be tempting to bring forward the marine sector where Norway has a strong advantage both in terms of business and competence. Marine sector, which in turn is highly dependent on marine research and climate research, has a relatively new research area called marine bioprospection, etc. It has great implications and offers great opportunities for food production, medical production, and thus also for addressing the major global challenges in food and health, for example. The potential is enormous. We could make an even stronger bet on this field. As mountain dwellers, I may also have to mention that there are strong ambitions in Bergen, and there is a strategic effort to co-locate and strengthen the relevant environments in Bergen in climate research, marine research and marine research. This will be important for Bergen's future. Then we have had a discussion already in this debate on the so-called 3 pst. goal. Why do you have such a goal? Why is it recommended internationally? There is a measure of how much of society’s value creation today should be set aside and invested to provide the basis for tomorrow’s value creation. It is a similar objective as the one recommended for Norwegian municipalities, to have an operating result of 3 pst. – it’s actually there, incidentally – and set it aside to secure the economy and investment for the future. So if we look at the 3pst measure, and if we look at the world, it's not a 3pst measure in itself crazy ambitious. We have countries operating with both 4 pst. targets and 5 pst. targets. So the government doesn't want to fix this goal. In the right, we have had a debate on this – also in front of the National Meeting of the Right. We've chosen to set this goal to 2030. I know that the Left and Christian People's Party operates with a more ambitious objective. The point is at least that once you have fixed such a target, you can sit down and plan how the goal is to be achieved. If you don't set the target, such planning is completely meaningless. For this reason, the government will not even exit the take-off pit when it comes to setting ambitious research action plans in Norway for the years to come. We have a time horizon to 2030, it's four major periods. It is then possible to sit down and break this down and make operational plans for how to achieve such a goal. And of course, as several speakers have already said, the big challenge lies in business. If business needs to research for 2 pst. of GDP — and this is also agreed by the government, because it operates with this target, but without a time-limit — means that it is threefold compared to the current level. This will require strong public instruments – the Research Council said in its input to the Research Communication – and there are such instruments we need to discuss how to design and strengthen. Then it is quite striking – I have to say it at the end – that the Minister of Economic Affairs does not seem to show up here in the Stortinge in connection with today's debate. In the four budget debates I have had during this major period in connection with the research budgets, the Minister of Industry has never been present either. Another State Council — the Minister for Fisheries — has been present in all these debates and has participated actively and positively. It says respect. But the Minister of Industry's absence is alarming. I refer to the Right proposal and the proposals on which the Right is included, which may not have been raised by other representatives in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e676	The representative has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It'll be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e679	Let me focus on the Right notes. The rapporteur, Lien, made it quite clear in his speech that we have to go beyond four-year research horizons. He also expressed satisfaction, as I support, that it is politically broadly anchored that we should follow long lines and have a broad political agreement on the main reasons. Therefore, it is strange and alarming that the Right is not included in the central elements of the setting. I would like to point out three points: the right is sceptical about the ten-year plan, they do not agree that the long-term plan should contain nationally important research infrastructure, and they are not involved in the research policy objectives set out in the previous Research Communication, which are also the main objective. Why isn't the Right in this, since they were in on it in the last magnification period, and since all the other parties in the Great Britain are in on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e690	I thank you for the question. We have been a bit questioning from the Right – I must say – to the somewhat bombastic presentation of a long-term research plan, because we have asked ourselves what the relationship will be between such a long-term plan and the governance documents we already have. Let me mention a few different things: the Research Council itself has long-term strategies; they now have a system of four-year programming messages, we have some wishes for how, for example. The present big message could have been more concrete on important points, not only discussing what is a problem, but also pointing to the clear solutions, such as: In view of the lack of research in business – which we have been confronted with – and we also have a road map for infrastructure, etc. We feel that the relationship between a long-term plan and the existing documents is unclear, and therefore we are currently waiting for the government's further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e697	The research message has a clear focus on quality - it goes back as a red thread, literally, from area to area. For example, both the long-term plan and international research cooperation are motivated by the need to raise quality. Another approach to raising quality is to focus on the thirds of research done at universities and universities. Here the Committee, minus Right, agrees on the need for more cooperation, better work sharing and more concentration precisely to increase quality. The whole sector is coming to us and asking us to take action -- the students are coming, the researchers are coming, the board members are coming. The question is, why won't the right hand side be on this quality level, why has the Right hand flipped the cards here?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e705	I guess I have to say that if the representative Tor Bremer concludes that the Right does not stand for a bet on quality, then there is a lot he has missed during these four years here in Stortinget, among other things. various representative proposals – at the latest in connection with this debate and the examination of the Research Communication, where we have our own representative proposal on how to get more world-class university environments in Norway. However, what we have as a starting point is that the proceedings and the case reforms – or what they should be called for – have an annual cost of approx. 50 million. not as far as we can see, has given some concrete quality promise in the sector. There is a lot of quality work in all these institutions, both in new and old universities and also in colleges, but the case reform as such and the money that has been there, we have thought that in itself has not led to any quality promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e710	Yes, we are several people who are amazed that the Right is outside central consensus in the Research Communication – and obviously the Long-Term Plan. What may have surprised me the most is that the Right is beyond the otherwise broad consensus on the research policy objectives. I noticed that the representative took a lot of time to say that he agreed with the Advance Party on how much money business would spend by 2030, but the rest of the Stortinget did not agree on the objective of using this money. Is it not a little alarming that the Right with its ambitions has quite different objectives for research than the rest of the Stortinget have, and especially when the Research Council itself has stressed the importance of long-termity in such objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e715	I have to say, once again, that the reality description of the fact that the Right has completely different objectives for research policy than the other parties is somewhat up-to-date. But we have, in our own document, developed by the Right Research Committee in the last year, made some – let's say – coherent reasoning related to calling goals a little bit different. Let me briefly mention some examples: We operate with four main objectives in this document related to higher ambitions for Norwegian research, related to world-leading competence, related to innovative business, and related to addressing global challenges. That's what we called these. The fact that the Research Communication has several objectives related to global challenges actually means the same thing. Then we have six strategies and a total of 40 actions – several of them have been completed in the handling of this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e720	The Christian People's Party, Left and Advance Party say in their note that long-termity is the most important thing in this message, and I see that the Right does not join and believe that it will not give any added value with a long-term plan. But it's been very pointed out that it's important to have a time-fixing of the GDP of the 3 pst. goal, that makes sense. There's also a number we don't know what's in 17 years, when the Right thinks it's going to be fixed, and that's not what the Christian People's Party and the Left think. Then the representative says that if one does not plan the 3 pst. goal, there is no point in planning. Then my question is: Is there experience from your own government, e.g. in view of the NTP they have never been able to fulfil, which means that the Right is skeptical of that type of long-term planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e727	Now I became a little uncertain about whether the Right was criticised for both being concerned with long-term planning, for example. The timing of the 3 pst. goal that we're on, and not being concerned with long-term planning, which was really in this line right here. Let me therefore say that what the research report does not respond to is how we are going to solve the biggest challenge in Norwegian research, what the Minister of Knowledge said a week ago was the main explanation that Norway is not spending enough on research, that it is not being researched enough in business. There we stand out negative, not only in relation to many other countries, but also in relation to our nearest neighbouring country. This challenge does not give the research message any answer as to how to solve it. It is the major challenge both in the short and long term – not least in the long term – if the 3 pst. target is to be achieved at all, and the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e732	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e735	We agree very much in this setting, which I think is a strength. It is a strength for research, not least, but it is also a strength in view of all those who carry out daily research. Not only do we agree on some practical policies, but there is also agreement on some basic vision in terms of research. In the statement, we write that research is to ‘enlarge human recognition and stimulate curiosity’, that basic research requires long-term patience – we don’t know what we’re going to need in 20 years. I think today's newspaper gives us a little insight into what we can learn from having a good and solid basic research. There's been a new subject in biology called biomimetics. It's a subject where engineers and other subjects learn from the characteristics you see in nature, and try to imitate them using nanotechnology and engineering. Today’s example from the Newspaper is when you try to imitate something as special as the noiseless flight of the owl: What makes an owl escape silently – how to make sure that you learn and apply the characteristics that exist there? I am proud of the efforts this government has made in the field of research. I am proud of the increase in research that has taken place – the increase in research appropriations by 32 pst. is a lot when the other budget has only been increased by 12.15 pst. It means that research has been prioritised and set higher than other things. A lot of this debate will probably be about: Is that enough? I have always thought that you should never answer yes to the question if that is enough. You can always find more good measures to spend more money on. But I think, as I see it, that the case-rapporteur also said in his introduction, and as I think the setting marks, that a great focus should be placed on quality. Quality is essential for us to regain what we use here — not least the quality of basic research. Then I am incredibly happy that we have put in place that we are going to make a long-term plan – a long-term plan to say something about infrastructure allocations, and about how we are going to achieve our strategic advantage. Without such a long-term plan, we have not shown enough ability to relate to what I – I was going to say 100 years ago, but it was a little exaggerated – 20 years ago, when I was in the Research Council, and I was involved in the strategic main fields of action: getting links between them and what we do with investments in construction and study places. It's extremely important if we're going to have a more strategic approach for the future. It's totally incomprehensible to me that the Right at best is hesitant, at worst critical, to take such a big and strategic grip. There is a lot of talk about the importance of business being knowledge-based. It is quite obvious that the business to take over once in a climate sense, when we cannot take up all the oil, must be based on knowledge. Equally important is that the way we govern our society, the way we run public administration, should be research and knowledge-based. In the very demanding political issues we face, it is incredibly important that we have good knowledge processes at the bottom, which enable us to make the best decisions. I am proud that we have been drivers to build up what is now the UN Panel on Nature, similar to the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, which will have a sub-secretariat in Trondheim, and which will be extremely important in creating a basis for decision-making in the field of nature, similar to what the United Nations Panel on Climate Change is doing in the climate field. These basic knowledge processes are extremely important. In 1993 and 1994, I had the pleasure of working with Kristen Nygaard in No to the EU. There's one thing that remains stronger for me than any other of what I've learned from Kristen Nygaard: if you're going to make people go in the same direction, you have to start by creating a kind of common sense of reality. Kristen Nygaard hammered it into the fragile assembly that was No to the European Union in its time, that we had to try to get a somewhat similar sense of reality. The great knowledge processes both nationally and internationally are about trying to see reality something similar. If you disagree with the way the climate system works, how nature works, how the health system works, you are doomed to fail to make a common diagnosis and implement the right measures. Therefore, the knowledge processes nationally and internationally, and the way in which management and policy are able to take up the knowledge processes, are crucial for us to be able to take the courageous and important decisions we need for the future. Then I'm also absolutely sure that Kristen Nygaard would have been for us to join Horizon 2020. He was a man who liked international cooperation in the field of research, and so absolutely no borders there. It's a big challenge for us with Horizon 2020, if we're going to say it in Norwegian, and that's that we have to get more for it. We have to bet where we get back money from the system, so that it helps to increase the Norwegian research appropriations. The environment sector has done well in the 7th EU Framework Programme and has recovered a great deal. That's not so nice. We have some natural advantage. We have a lot of nature that many in Europe think it's exciting to research, because you don't have much of it yourself, and we have world-leading climate scientists. The Mountain Centre has made heavy contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the Polar Institute is the world leader in ice-related research. It is clear that research on ice and polar strips must be a high and heavy field of activity for us. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research makes a heavy contribution to all research that is related to everything from wild breeds to bears, yerv, yerv, yerv, and wolf, and many of the other animals we don't talk about so much in Stortinget as usual. I am also very pleased that the Committee has commented on the institutional sector in particular. If we are to be able to increase research funding, we depend on the success of the institute sector. In that case, the public sector and the manner in which the public sector is a contracting entity, and an order, are of great importance. The main principle shall be that contracts are to be put out of competition. Such that all institutions are given the opportunity to compete for contracts on equal terms. I note that the opposition goes a little further, and criticises today's direct allocation system. There may be good reasons for criticising the direct allocation system when it leads to the sectoralisation of knowledge, and I would ask that this be a debate that will be taken further into account in the follow-up to the Research Communication, because a sectorisation of knowledge will weaken our opportunities rather than increase our ability to be world leaders in areas that are about to be the best in quality. I'm among those who let me fascinate with research. It's fun to read research news. It's also among the things that make it fun to do politics. But I'm even more fascinated by how we accept research. I think it is important that we accept research – also the research that does not provide the answers that we initially like. It's the research that challenges established truths, that plagues us, and that's a little uncomfortable because it wasn't exactly what we thought, which is the most important and most necessary thing to help create a society that our descendants too can be proud of. I just want to end by saying that it's good that there's such a wide majority behind the long lines. It is good that this research report has received as good a reception as it has, and it provides a good basis for increased investment in research and knowledge in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e769	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e772	The interaction in the sector is continuous in the Storing Communication. I also registered that the representative was concerned that sectoralisation could take place in the allocation of assignments. Then it would have been very good if the representative would support change in what is available at that point. However, further, in the context of the interaction in the Communication, it also appears that there is systematic and continuous interaction between research and innovation and that it creates added value both in knowledge production and interaction between society and business. But there is, in fact, a very important part missing from interaction, and it is between the different departments. This can be a bottleneck for good cooperation. What will the majority do to ensure a holistic approach in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e783	I believe a total increase, and also everyone from all parties that have ever put their foot in the government apparatus, fully agrees that we have a continuing challenge in terms of coordination between departments and sectors in Norway. To try to pretend that that's not the case, that exercise I can't at least drive from this pulpit. This coordination is a major challenge. It is a challenge, but at the same time it is that the best debates take place in the breakup of clear interests. If we can't have that disunity between interests and departments and sectors, I think we're also getting less knowledge. The representative also points out that sectoralisation is a problem. I agree that sectoralisation can be a problem. At the same time, I am concerned that every sector should feel proud of what is being done and have legitimate interests in presenting its messages in the light of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e792	It was interesting to hear about the internal life of No to the EU a while ago, but if there is a field where the EU has really set the agenda, it must be in the field of research cooperation. The next framework programme, Horizon 2020, which will start next year, will increase the budgets by about a quarter. 50 pst. in relation to the previous. It is the world's largest research collaboration, and that is massive. Fortunately, Norway is there, even though the government was a little late in flagging it. I wonder if SV is still of the opinion that SV was four years ago in connection with the roll-out programme for this period, where one had a point where SV was said to ensure that Norway’s participation in the EU research programmes was critically reviewed, and where it pointed to the unfortunate influence the EU had on Norwegian research policy. Is this still true?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e800	We've had such a review, and we've done that in a proper way. We've learned a lot from the review of how the 7th Framework Programme has worked, and what kind of influence it has on Norwegian research. It has given us some good news and some not quite so good news. They're not quite so good news that in any of our fields we pay more than what we get back. In some areas it's like this. Luckily, for example, environmental research and marine research among the good news that has come from this review. I think we're going to use the review we had, the critical look we had at this review, to make sure that in the next round we get even more out of being in EU cooperation than what we got in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e807	I want to challenge the representative on a topic that none of the government's representatives have addressed so far, namely equality within the academy. This is how we have developed very well in Norway. In many studies, there is a majority of women, women take higher education. But we also see that they disappear longer during the course, and it becomes a much smaller proportion, which at least does not correspond to the high proportion it is in the studies. To date, women's struggle has really been about how we can combine working life and family life to bring women into multiple sectors. But in this area, we see that the government parties do not support us in that proposal – which is very vague, but which we believe can be helpful – which reads: ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibility of introducing a ‘120 % model’ in order to better facilitate the combination of family life with a research career.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e819	Thank you for a good and important question. There is no doubt that, in the next few years, we will see a kind of gender revolution — or perhaps a gender revolution — in the research world, all the time girls/women are in the majority of the basic studies as we see. It will also force other types of solutions related to it. I really want to praise the Christian People's Party, because I seem to remember that they have also raised an interpellant debate with the Council of State on the same theme. We've been interested in looking at several models that make it easier to get not only to be a student, but also to be able to take a doctorate, etc., while having small children. I think that the combination of being a student and being a baby's parent is a topic that's going to be higher on the agenda, but we want to see it wider than just on the basis of the proposal that's being addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e828	We've heard from the government parties that we need to talk nice about nutrition doctoral thesis, but now we also propose public doctoral thesis. I think that's very positive. During the year when the Left began to talk about this with academic career paths for teachers, everyone has begun to talk about the importance of academic career paths for teachers. Why don't the teachers get in line first when someone really needs these, when you have to distribute them? Why could SV not be involved in this comment in the committee reading?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e837	I guess no one has said negatively about it as such. The question was probably that there had been an initiative from below, from others, which we had not pointed out would be in the queue first, but which had been put in the queue first, and where it is possible to do so. I have nothing against making more career paths for teachers. I also have nothing against the fact that arrangements can also include it. But when the case came out as it did, it was probably because you wanted to give a positive response to someone who has taken the initiative. And I see no reason to close that door to others when you have tried out the system as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e844	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e847	Johann Wolfgang von Goethe once said: I spent 24 hours researching about it – well, I know a lot, but I want to know everything. Well, we're asked if we know everything by researching, but at least we're told more than we would know without research. Research gives us new knowledge. A message about the state of research and wherever we want is important. The research message shall indicate the government's objectives and give guidance signals. This message sets out the research policy objectives and ambitions for Norwegian research. The government has high ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian research community, but at the same time does not tell us to know everything. It says that we should have a broad range of research, that basic research is the basis for all good research, but the message is clear that we should continue to invest in the strategic areas where we believe Norway has special knowledge, special advantages and special responsibilities. We want to increase quality and contribute to the creation of more research and education environments in the top international level. It is easy to measure the success of research in relation to the amount of money allocated. In contrast to what some actually seem to believe, or want to spread an opinion of, this government has increased research efforts. While the real growth in the state budget is at 12.2 p.m., research efforts have increased by 32 p.m. So we can do as the opposition: write that it does not help to ‘point out that the research appropriations have grown, all the time the reality descriptions from the sector itself indicate that the challenges are in line’. But research appropriations have actually increased under the red-green government. And increasing the use of funds should have an impact on research ability, seas if someone would like to see even more funds made available. In my opinion, such a argument falls on stone ground. I'm not going to talk a lot about money, but the research share measured by GDP is solid. However, appropriations in themselves tell us little about what we actually get out of research, and how the quality of the work being done is. Big sums are used for research, and then we should be so concerned about what we get back. The questions we have to ask ourselves are: When we reach our goals, among other things. to make a difference in our strategic areas where we believe Norwegian research should make a difference? I am thinking about food security, the environment, climate, oceans, energy, ICT and nanotechnologies. I think we're doing a very good job within many of these subjects, but there's no need to rest. If we are to be in the forefront in specific areas, we must also be good at sharing knowledge, between the players in the research system, the university and higher education sectors, the business and society. We also need to improve cooperation with international environments. It is said that Norway needs a stronger culture for research. This applies in both public and private sectors. The world is small, and we are no longer challenged only by the neighbouring municipality, other institutions or businesses in our own country. We compete internationally. Therefore, both public and private business and society must think differently than they have traditionally done. One has to think more about across. As the representative, Lien, I want to bring out our NCEs. These collaborative clusters, where several companies join forces for research efforts together with the Academy, are a good way to work to make us stronger and more important. Norway has many small and medium-sized enterprises that will face major challenges in carrying out research on their own merits. That is why these environments are so important. From my own district, I would like to highlight the NCE environment in Raufoss. They are the National Centre of Competence for Lightweight Materials and Automated Production. They consist of a total of 41 member companies and have 17 enterprises in addition to the network. This cooperative has linked itself to its own research department, a subsidiary of SINTEF and works across different disciplines and close to the business world – now also public. This cooperation is essential to increase the innovative capacity and thus also the profitability of enterprises, inter alia. on Raufoss. They have acute competence, among other things. in the field of materials technology and has recently developed titanium wire, which no one in the world has done before them. The next step for the best NCEs must be to develop them into the Global Centers of Expertice, GCE, on the basis of the research policy objectives agreed by all parties, except the Right. The cooperative idea is also good when it comes to research. Together we become strong. The notification highlights the need for coordination and coordination, both by the instrument, appropriations and results. But we don't have to be so coordinated and focused that we don't have environments that challenge. We're going to have to have the little parts with us to turn the words of the Stray Speta. The regional research funds are important in this way. I am pleased that the message sets out to develop a long-term research plan, in line with something similar to the national transport plan. Research is long-term and requires patience. Therefore, it is also important that the system shows more long-termity than four-year periods. It provides predictability for research, both in terms of construction, equipment and places of study and scholarships. A 10-year plan could increase predictability and be more binding on changing governments. It is a good thing that the entire committee joins such a long-term plan, but it should worry that the Right is very sceptical. There won't be research without skilled people who have commitment, will and patience. It is therefore very important that universities and colleges have a good human resources policy that gives employees predictability. We know that the academy has worn off with a lot of temporaryity. It is therefore appropriate to take action now to meet this challenge by imposing requirements on institutions on the reporting and, where appropriate, the use of economic instruments, but also via the entry positions that are now being established. It is important to provide security to the best people in the academy as well. I have so far been concerned with differentiation and profile between universities and colleges. In the message, the government says that it will assess the facilities for funding universities and colleges, including the relationship between direct appropriations and external research funding, among others. through the EU and the Research Council. The Gjøvik information security environment in terms of preparedness is referred to in the comment on the setting. The University of Gjøvik is the university which receives the second most research funding from the EU and actually manages one of the EU’s programmes. I would like to highlight this information security environment in Gjøvik, which is the third largest in Europe, and which wants to develop further. In a short time, Gjøvik University will launch a centre of expertise in information security called the Center for Security Economics and Technology, CSET. Here we will see a cooperative of need-holders and academia, which can partly be compared to the NCE models. My point is that we need to see universities and colleges as a whole. Higher education can also lie in the research front, be of the best in Europe and actually be better than universities in some areas, but there must be a division of labour. Institutions should be good in different areas. Finally, I have to spend some time on food. Food security is one of the areas where the government believes we have a global responsibility to contribute to the development of. As the committee knows, I have previously spoken from this pulpit about research funded by farmers in collaboration with government authorities that contribute to better animal and animal health competences. Norwegian research in both animal health and plant engineering means that we can make better use of our resources based on our production conditions at a time when the climate changes. I am particularly proud to come from the home country, Uppland and Hedmark, which have a large environment in research in these fields. To the story of the Storting, I can tell you that on Friday, at the White Centre in Gjøvik, a new offer will be launched in collaboration with the research institutions in Oppland and Hedmark, the industry of the sea and the food industry. Agriculture and its biology are part of the White Centre and will contribute to increasing interest in real science and science through agriculture, research and opportunities in the food and food industries, climate challenges, forests, health, biotechnology and the environment. This is going to be unique among the science centers. Unfortunately, it's the same day that we're going to discuss Meld. St. 20, but I am very pleased that this project is being realized. I will therefore end with words from the French author Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle: Nature is never as admired as when she is understood. So the interior still has to be in the driver's seat to give us this understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e924	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e927	There is a broad consensus in the Committee that we need a review of the funding of the UH sector. Some such agreement is not for the institution sector. Most of the institutes currently receiving basic funding are located in and very close to the major cities of Norway, while in the districts, in small and medium-sized municipalities, there are relatively many high-quality research institutes, which are of very significant importance for business, perhaps especially for the marine and maritime industries in the South-West. The Progress Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, calls for the opening up of several institutions to receive qualification support first, and then to enter the basic funding system. It would have been a regional policy profile, and it would have been almost a democratic profile of such a solution. It doesn't support the Center Party. Can the Centre Party explain why it is primarily occupied by the institutes in the major cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e936	As the representative Lien probably noticed, I pulled out in my post an environment that is not in a very large city, but in a very small village, at Raufoss, and that is a sub-division of SINTEF. I do not disagree that we need to review and look at how we can finance the institute sector in a better way than we do today, so that we get the effects we want. But as I drew out – and as I know the representative Lien zejl is concerned about – it's about thinking more in clusters than we've done before. That doesn't mean that the clusters need to be exactly close to each other. I know of NCE at Raufoss working in close cooperation with, among others. environments in e.g. More and Romsdal – so it's within that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e942	If there is another question, I would like the representative to explain the following issue: it is almost only the Progress Party that is not very, very concerned that we get back absolutely everything, crown for crown, for Norwegian participation in EU research. Of course, we want as much money as we can left, too, but we believe that there are comments that the Center Party has in it that go too far in an instrumental view of this. If the representative of Tingelstad Wøien feels that there is reason to fear that an overfocused focus on getting back the EU research quota krone for krone makes it more difficult to maintain the pressure on the research fields where we have a nutritional and geographical advantage in Norway, for example. forestry and the oil and gas industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e949	I had a little difficulty getting to grips with what the representative Lien really meant. But I think we're going to want to get back heads for what we're spitting in, seafaring. Earlier this spring, 100 million were taken in. kr – was not – for the EU quota appropriations. That should be one concern. We must not give more money than we are required to contribute. I would say that we have a huge potential in the university and higher education sectors in our research area to get access to the framework programmes. We see that there are some environments that are good and are very good at it. Even Gjøvik University, which is a small university, has been able to write good applications and has received a lot of money back from the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e956	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, said in his speech that we need to be better at sharing knowledge. I think that's absolutely right. The world’s largest research cooperation, and hence the world’s largest knowledge-sharing project, is the EU Framework Programme for Research. Is that a cross of thought for the extreme no party of the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e961	There is no cross-thinking for a party that is against EU membership to be in favour of international cooperation. We believe it is important to be part of international cooperation in research. This also applies to the EU. What concerns us is that we should perhaps use all our resources only in the EU, when we know that we have major challenges in other areas of the world, such as the BRICS countries. So I'm not worried about anything at all about that we're going to participate in Horizon 2020. What worries me is that we just have to participate there, because then I think we'll get a much narrower research than what we need as a country. We need to have it on a broad front, because we know that we have great interests in other countries, where we can also learn a lot and have great interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e966	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party tend to agree that the wit is equally distributed across the country – insofar as also between the private and public sectors. A new financial review of the sector has now been announced. Last, and it's not that long ago, the conclusion was that this was not possible to make any changes in, it was historically conditional, and everything was terribly difficult. At the same time, we saw that once that conclusion was reached, there were several environments that called for funding in some sectors and for some institutions to continue to pose a challenge. I have previously challenged one of the colleagues from the government parties with regard to the new universities, but I also want to challenge the Center Party: if you now get this new review, does that mean that you are actually going to get a new funding from private institutions, and also from the new universities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e971	I think it is useful to have continuous reviews of how we finance both universities and colleges and the whole thing – to use an unparliamentary expression! I think it's useful, because when there's a lot of pressure on institutions to get students in, get them through and get them produced, because you get a back payment for them, it's a concern, and it's been for the Center Party, too, that we've had, what we're going to say, too much competition in the total funding. I think it makes sense that we're going through it. Obviously, the new universities will also be part of that assessment, but that must be the content and what we want to get out, which must be the most important thing for us when we look at funding. But I see clearly that there are major challenges as it is today as well, because we see that there are some institutions that take in too many students, and that, perhaps because of that, do not follow them up well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e976	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e979	The research notification setting has a high degree of consensus this time. That's good news for the research, because this sector, perhaps more than many others, is totally dependent on predictability. I also remember with pleasure that the government parties are much more involved than before on proposals from the opposition in connection with the notification. The whole of eight proposals drawn up during committee work have been agreed on this time, which I believe must be a record under the red-green government. I want to say that finally we've managed to achieve the interaction that many of us wanted, and it's not stupid that it's in a sector like this. This ability to listen to good suggestions from the opposition I don't think you've seen since the happy minority days of Bondevik II – let me start with that. Nevertheless, important points of disagreement are the financing and the obligation. It's also here that the scientific community will notice the greatest difference with any new government. The opposition has clearer and far more ambitious objectives than the government. These are commitments in the years to come. I hope the sector remembers that. Unifying family life and a research career are demanding. I believe this may have a negative impact both on the recruitment of younger researchers in general and on the recruitment of women in particular. Postdoctor Helene Aarseth at the University of Oslo says this: ‘I can notice a rather strong pressure against a normalisation of the ‘free’ researcher. That is to say, a researcher who is free from care and family responsibilities." Philosophy professor Christel Fricke of the same university says: «European universities are undergoing a transformation. UiO is no exception. An academic career is not family friendly.» Fellow student May-Linda Magnussen at Agderforschung says this: ‘The requirement is to work around the clock and dedicate one’s life to research.’ In Sweden, there is also a broad consensus among researchers that priority should be given to the job ahead of all other responsibilities in life. In 2012, the University of Gothenburg carried out a report called «Jamstälter fakulter?» Here, women's and men's assumptions in academia were surveyed. The report’s interview study revealed that employees’ lives need to adapt to their professional life — not vice versa. The willingness of the employee to embrace this adaptation is decisive as to whether he or she will and can continue to research, say it. I will be surprised if the situation is particularly different in Norway than in Sweden. Young researchers are a group that is often in the middle of the establishment phase. Therefore, it will be very important to put in place arrangements to make it easier to combine a research career with a family life. In today’s setting, the Christian People’s Party is therefore promoting a proposal to evaluate a model that addresses this challenge. The Action Plan for the Swiss National Science Foundation 2013–2016 sets out a model called the ‘120 % model’ to meet this challenge. The aim of this model is to contribute to more flexible career planning for the target population and to prevent the delay or non-completion of research activities. This model allows the postdoctor to reduce working time, where a 60 pst position is the lowest limit. Positions with reduced working time may have up to 20 pst. financial support in addition to the initial rate of employment, which shall be used to employ so-called ‘supporters’ — technicians, laboratory assistants, scientific assistants, etc. – to conduct studies and discharge tasks. The additional costs will normally be up to a maximum of 20 pst. I think that a similar action in Norway could make it easier to keep researchers in the early childhood phase, and not least I think it could have a good impact on the female profile. Tomorrow it's the Jubilee of Voting Rights here in our country, and women and women's entrances have been important everywhere. That is why the Christian People's Party has also chosen to spend time in this debate raising this issue. Because we have a major problem in the academy. Academia is far too much of a human favorite. The requirements for successful academic careers are poorly consistent with the need to combine care and careers. Therefore, I am probably disappointed that the government parties do not have a more offensive attitude to this in the vote. In the Research Communication, the Government describes that they will engage in dialogue with the Kif Committee on Gender Balance in Research to find action. Kif has made many proposals for action, and the government now had the opportunity to make concrete proposals. This chance didn't use it. The Christian People's Party has received messages from young women in the academy who tell of lack of organisation in the institutions, and who are calling for clearer strategy and will to act. It is important to have good and clear plans for gender equality, setting targets and reporting results. At the same time, it is a challenge that institutions often have such good equality strategies, but fail in their implementation and follow-up. The diversity of scientific staff is important because it has an impact both on student role models and on who controls knowledge development. Recruitment and employment of scientific staff requires awareness of gender balance, and measures to counter existing structural inequalities must be available. A prerequisite for getting enough women into scientific positions is both that there are female students in all disciplines, and that students are encouraged to choose a further academic career. Measures such as gender scores may be considered where there are longer-term difficulties in recruiting an underrepresented gender. We see that women traditionally choose safe careers, and a reduction in the number of temporary jobs could make the academy a more real alternative for more women. Several have pointed out that women take greater responsibility for the educational activity of institutions. This has the consequence that they may not spend as much time as men on research activities. And when we know that it's research activity, and not education, that formally underlies the assessment of the professional competence of a person, it will contribute to the strengthening of gender imbalance. I've used a lot of my post just at this point, because that's where I might think the message is weakest. But let me also address something that I challenged in the lines: the overall review of the funding of higher education and research that the government has announced in the communication. There is no doubt that the previous review of funding created great expectations for a more even distribution of research funding, especially between the new universities, the University of Agder, Stavanger and the Nordic countries, which had changed the status of regional universities to universities. As state universities, they had different framework conditions than established universities and scientific colleges, especially in the field of research funding. I believe that the new universities, with their special features, have an opportunity to strengthen research in the professional professions, but today's funding provides an undesirable discrimination against their research efforts. This must be an important element of the review. Furthermore, I assume that such an ‘overall review’ also includes a review of the funding of private universities. At present, there is a greater degree of equivalence between public and private universities and higher education institutions in the law, but in some areas there is still one piece left, in particular for financing purposes. For this reason, I would like to clarify the objective of full equal treatment of private and public higher education institutions also in the case of financial instruments. We have many suggestions for discussion today. Like Mr. Tord Lien, who has also done a good job, I would like to ask for the Minister of Industry's presence in the Chamber today. There is no doubt that the combination of nutrition and academia is incredibly important for future solutions and to maintain a high level of activity in Norway. We have submitted some Document 8 proposals, which we will discuss further in the debate. The Christian People's Party has brought in its nutritionist spokesperson, who is going to highlight some of the proposals that lie there. In the absence of the Minister of Industry, we now have at least the interests of the business community in the hall, also from the Christian People's Party. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Inner East. 372 S, with the corresponding settings that we are now discussing at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1033	The representative Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1038	First of all, I would like to thank you for your good words that the Committee has worked out a lot of common policies. Secondly, I would like to commend the representative Eriksen for addressing the working conditions, which we know are demanding for many researchers, especially women. Nevertheless, I am left with a central question, which I look forward to getting an answer to. It's: what are the main points and the overall grips of the Christian People's Party's research policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1045	The main points of our research policy, to which we subscribe, are the main points of the research communication on which areas we are going to focus. The other main points are quite recognizable for the Christian People's Party and from the history of the Christian People's Party. It's about public commitments. It was when the Christian People's Party was in government with Jon Lilletun as Research Minister that the Research Fund came. It was the first time we were able to obtain public funding that was binding. That's why we've joined the long-term plantation plan, even though we don't believe it solves everything. We've also joined the ambitious goals we have when we're going to achieve. It's important for us to get research between business and academia. I believe that by reading the setting one will be able to see quite a lot of the main points of the Christian People's Party. But what I chose to spend a lot of my time on was on that message that there was no response, namely in relation to equality. There's the message passive. One wants to engage in a dialogue on gender balance in research, and it becomes too weak for the Christian People's Party. That's why I chose to use the majority of my post on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1053	Most of the parties are very clear on the role that the colleges play in relation to our professional training courses. Most parties are also very clear and concerned about how to increase the quality of research and education at universities. This is the point, and a little bit of a starting point, of the debate on the relationship between universities and universities on how to get to this good division of labour. That's also the point of view of the question of how many universities we need. But I have to say that a lot of blocked eyes are significant when we saw some time ago that the representative Dagrun Eriksen, actually at a pleasant distance from the fact that the University of Agder is established, now will set the mark for further new universities. So the question is, why will the representative go from today's requirements to width and quality, which is decisive, and what has changed since Agder got his approval?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1060	I think this is a very important discussion, which we haven't taken enough in the central environment. When the Stjernø Committee presented its position, there were great expectations of how to establish the universities as a separate section and also give them goals that they could have an academic drive to achieve. It's one of the things that we saw was positive around the process of being a university down in Agder, that the only way we could get to the academic run on within today's system was to work against it becoming a university. That's why not only the representative Dagrun Eriksen, but the whole party of the Christian People's Party has now said that we need to get parameters that make the universities also have an opportunity to develop an academic drive, without – as today – that the only goal is that it becomes a university. In addition, it has also been that if it first becomes a university, funding has been punished. This is a stupid way of caring for the really good way of being at college. We're going to have a review that ensures their distinctiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1069	The representative, Eriksen, said that the opposition has clearer and more ambitious goals than the government, but I wonder what kind of goals the opposition really has. For the Right, the strategic objectives are not shared. They also do not share the wish for a long-term plan – at least they are very sceptical. And the Right and Advance Party want to achieve the 3pst goal of GDP in 17 years, while the Christian People's Party and the Left will achieve it in seven years. What makes them more clear and ambitious than the government, which has always shown that a rate of research?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1074	First of all, I think removing the Research Fund as a permanent establishment was a sign of weakness from the government, and a signal that one did not want to give priority in the same way. Let me take the last example that the representative had: yes, there are some in the opposition who want seven years of commitment to the goal in the OECD, while some people want 17 years. But that's after all better than a government that just says in the long term. When we get a goal in place, we're going to negotiate whether it's 17 or 7 years old. That the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are more ambitious than the other two parties, something I'm absolutely certain that the Center Party also experienced a lot of things, when they started talking to those with whom they are in government now. These are proposals, and then you get the right answer for your priorities. The fact that one party thinks a little bit new and comes up with new suggestions in this area can also give a good dynamic into further discussions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1083	Let me first say that I'm not particularly impressed with the fact that you agree to fix a time target for when business is going to do more research. What's more demanding is to set goals and be clear about what you actually have the means to do something concrete yourself. I noticed in the representative Eriksen's reply to Marianne Aasen, where she says that Aasen can read the research position and see much of the Christian People's Party's policy. I have done so, and now I can see much of the Christian People's Party's policy in the way that the major issues agree with the government. We all remember with joy Jon Lilletun and think that many of the proposals supported by the Christian People's Party, which the Right for some reason, do not support – goals, long-term plans, etc. – are things that are in Jon Lilletun’s tradition. Does the representative Eriksen not agree with me that it is the Right who is now leaving that tradition?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1092	The right hand side is going to answer for itself. I have registered what approach the Right has had to this research message, and that they have worked very seriously and in parallel with their way of thinking. That they haven't managed to involve it in the existing thing, gets to be up to the right. But we join – as most people in this room – the main guidelines drawn up. I feel that the Right also does that, but they have a different approach to the whole issue. We're going to be in the main field of action, as we've said we're going to do, in this message. We're going to follow the government a little bit more towards equality than they've been able to deliver. What will be the talks after the election, when there will be a new majority – what we are betting on – will be up to the parties to discuss. I don't think there's an SV in there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1099	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1102	If you look back in the history of the emergence of the great cultures, there's one similarity between all: the valued knowledge. The great cultures up through the times that have worked have always valued knowledge. They've always put their scientists and women high, and they've always had it to convey knowledge and to make children wiser as important building blocks to build a society that can build well-being in the future. Today we have a government that has an enormous room for action. We have a business that leans towards an energy production, which we don't know is going to last. We have a business that's divided into two, and the part that's going really well is the one that we know is not going to last into the future. Therefore, Norway should be in a position where we have put a massive effort on research and knowledge. When we see other European countries squabbling around us economically, and we have a great deal of room for action, we should use that opportunity to have a massive investment in research and knowledge, especially in research about the new energy sources we are going to live on in the future, so that when Europe wakes up again – it always does – we will be able to cope with jobs, ideas and innovation, which will enable Norway to maintain its well-being and bring welfare to others. An important factor in this knowledge vision is a major investment in basic research. It's the research that's based on wonder-based, and that's based on the ideas of smart people who know their subjects, which we may not understand the benefits of, and which may not fit into the square of the knowledge we're ever looking for, but which can create the basis for great breakthroughs for our own well-being and our own ability to build a society in the future, and to create the jobs we're going to live on in the future. I want to bring up one thing that no one has talked about, namely the importance of raising the scientific even in the arts. It's important that we have art that gives us the opportunity to research, that gives us the opportunity to have fellows, and that gives us the opportunity to have scholarship programs, which enable our art skills to grow in the future as well. Having an academic base also for that part of our colleges, is important to bring these subjects forward as well. When I'm in this debate, I feel a little old in politics, because I've been involved in a lot of research debates, from my time in the student world, when we were dealing with Lilletun's grip. I've been here under Kristin Klemet and now for eight years under the red-green government. I was in 2009, when setting a percentage was a bad way to measure research. I remember Odd Einar Dørum standing here discussing why it was a very good goal when it was about culture and an incredibly good goal when it was about assistance, but an incredibly bad goal when it was about research. We in the left have always been on the percentage. We've been working on that, and we believe that politicians need to set clear goals, from which we can measure. I've seen Jon Lilletun find out about the Research Fund, and I've seen this government drop it. I've seen Kristin Clemet figure out the Gift Gains Fund, and I've seen this government drop it, and then I'm going to repent. So the government spends eight years figuring out and saying that instead of all the instruments that former government has invented to try to get long-term in such an important sector, you have to have long-term plans – not this government, but the next. I totally agree. This is one of the sectors where we need the most long-term. Research and knowledge is not a switch you can switch on and off. When you turn the volume button on, it will take a long time for the high music to come. You have to be willing to have a long-term plan. But I think the long-term plan applies to both public research and business research. It's a little strange to experience that a socialist government thinks that the market should be governed by the invisible hand. It's a little strange to experience that it's this government, with a socialist Minister of Education, who thinks that business is going to get settled in business research, because they have to realize that they need it. For me, this is the invisible hand's control in the market. For my part, from this pulpit, against a Socialist State Council, I want to address the state's contribution to bringing about a change in a society. I want an active state. I want a country that cares, that sets policy goals and that is willing to use a lot of tools to make the market work the way I want to, that is, to make companies put a lot of money into research. There are 40 proposals in this document. Eight of them are actually the government parties. I agree with Dagrun Eriksen that they should boast of that. But that might also say a little about the message we are doing. So there are 40 proposals on the table – eight of them, with the exception of proposal VII, are all on the table. The left is on 30 out of 32 minority proposals. I just want to make sure that all of the 38 proposals we're on are taken up. In the past, research policy has been characterised by a major element of consensus. Now we actually see some lines of conflict, and I think it might be good for research policy, even if it has not led to a dramatic meeting of state councils – barely one – or a very crowded press release. I think there are many important proposals here that should be the basis for debate. This concerns both coordination and the ability to bet on top areas. This concerns the nutritional research, which I have mentioned, where we are both to strengthen the tax FUNN and to reduce R & D. There's a bigger bet on the BIA -- not just talking nice about the BIA, but actually betting on it. I want to set aside money for innovation also in public acquisitions, which I believe have a great potential for better well-being and better public sector, and for upgrading very many of the women's drugs in the public sector. I think we need to focus on innovation and research in many of these areas. We've also been concerned about equality, as the Christian People's Party took up, so I'm not going to say so much about it, but we're also concerned about temporaryity, which is an important part of this. The fight against temporaryity across the research sector is a major challenge that should have had much stronger instruments behind it. Yes, I believe that you should have actually used the Civil Service Act to combat the temporaryity we currently have. The left, along with the Christian People's Party, has some comments on art, and I think it's been searched that we can't upgrade the art research programmes that were founded under Kristin Clement, with a construction of scholarships within the arts, which would have led us to a great strengthening of these schools. No matter how you turn it around, no matter how you count it, there is less research in Norway than in both Sweden, Denmark and Finland — all our important neighbouring countries. It should be a huge challenge for Norway because we see that we have a business that really needs to strengthen itself if we are to meet future challenges. A small drop in the oil price, a fall corresponding to that price maybe ten years ago, would lead to a massive drop of 30-40 pst. at Oslo Børs, which would lead Norway into a financial crisis overnight. So we rely on these energy prices to stay for our welfare in the future, for the welfare state that we have built up, and for the jobs that we have in Norway. I have to say that not only is it short-sighted, but it also helps to undermine the community we have built, and the welfare state we have built, if we are not able to invest so much in research that we are able to cope with the ideas, the business and the energy forms that we know that future societies are going to demand, because that is what we are going to live on in the future!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1140	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1145	There is consensus among the majority in the Committee that research policy should focus on five strategic objectives, where research should contribute to meeting global challenges, in particular in the fields of environment, climate, sea, food security and energy. There are important issues in themselves, but it is also important to create security and long-term security in the sector. One might also say that there is a choice between being neutral to research and rather focusing on areas in addition to basic research. Everyone agrees on this, except for the Right. How does the Left view that the Right does not share the five strategic objectives of the research policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1152	I am disappointed in the Right of this message. It shows how important it is to vote Left if you're engaged in research. It shows that if you now want a change of government, it is important to make sure that the Left gets big and gets this ministerial post, because I no longer fully trust the efforts that the Right does. It also shows that we will be able to cooperate with the Progress Party in many important areas. So here the Progress Party is an important co-conspiracy on the civil side in order to get a commitment to research that we know we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1160	The representative Skei Grande said she felt old when she participated in this debate. I can then confirm that you are old; you are actually a whole year older than me! I would also like to highlight that you said you could have boasted of a much longer career in discussing research policy issues, because I think the first time I discussed it with you, was when we were put together in the North Trøndelag High School, and it must have been at the end of the 1980s. It shows that it can be long lines! It is worrying that the Right Party is out of reach. But they are also outside the long-term plan. When it comes to these big grips, have you really chosen the wrong people to be on the team?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1167	Representative Sørensen is asked to correct his speech through the President as long as he sits here!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1170	I've been on the team with the representative Sørensen many times, far back, so that's a good idea. She managed to stick in the only sore point between us too, which was age! I'm, as I said, disappointed over the right at this point, and it shows that it's important to get a strong Left into a new government option if you're engaged in research. What I'm happy about is that the right would actually say that they have some concrete percentage points. I think that's important. Then I have experience working with the Right. I sat as the parliamentary leader when the Right had this ministerial post, and by hanging in on them during the previous research message, we got a lot. At least we have not suffered the losses that former representative Rolf Rekovam did when it was what he went in for when he was in opposition, compared to what he had to stand for when the party came into position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1179	So far in this debate, it has been shown that the opposition has been very committed to the timing of the GDP target. I don't know what GDP is in seven years, or in 17 years; I don't know how much effort and money is going to make. Then the question to the representative Skei Grande is whether it is not better to have a government that shows that it is actually following the long-term plans it is presenting, for example. in relation to NTP and to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1186	What I think is strange about this government is, as I said in my main post, that you're very much too percentage point in some areas – for example. The Center Party is incredibly proud of what has been done in relation to the percentage of culture. There's a percentage goal that's exactly as mobile as it is in research, so I don't understand why you shouldn't be able to do it in research, when you're willing to do it in culture. I think research may be one of the most important things we do in building the welfare state of the future and the jobs of the future. And then I don't understand why we can't have such a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1191	Today's installation in the hall, and to the extent of the debate, has revealed to us the fear most from the opposition's side when it comes to the 3 pst. goal, that the theme is being distorted from the scientific challenges to achieving the goal. The left has ambitiously said that they will achieve this target by 2020. The reactions in the sector are largely that they view it as a very populist proposal, which is relatively difficult to reach. The question about Skei Grande is short and good: how does she intend to get business to research so much – so we're talking about a deficit of 40 billion. kr – by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1198	The left sets itself bold targets in this area. That's because we think this is one of the most important things we're doing. We're going to prioritise research and knowledge most in this election campaign because we think that's one of the most important things Norway should do. I went in my proposal through the means we wanted to use. We want to strengthen the FUNN – we think it will have a very great impact – we want to support the BIA, we want to implement all the measures I went through just before I went to the Chair, and we have the letter from the NHO on research, with the measures that they want us to take to get to the research. All of this lies both here and in our revised draft budget, so we show how we can do this with concrete means, while the government leans back and believes that an invisible hand should intervene in the market to make people understand that they need to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1203	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1206	First, I would like to complain to Stortinget that I was not in place when the meeting started today. It was due to a misunderstanding. I thought I was half an hour early, but I was a few minutes late. I'm sorry. I would like to say that this is a debate I have enjoyed for a long time. It's in many ways a very interesting setting. We have three major actions in place, increasing the level of ambition in research and higher education. One is a ten-year long-term research plan to look at research efforts, infrastructure, construction, scholarships and study places in the context. It is a very important tool to just be able to take the steps needed to set our target for ten – and base it on – 20, 30 years in the future. It is very important, and I am happy to cooperate with the sector and all the resources we have in Norway to achieve a good long-term plan. The second is that the Ministry of Knowledge was the major winner of the revised national budget. We had four new knowledge-buildings in place – in addition to the one that was there from the 2013 budget – in the revised national budget. This means that in the current year, the Stortinget makes decisions that ensure investment in knowledge building with a total framework of almost 9 billion. kr. It's a huge leap in an area where we know there was a lot of need, and we're much more forward-looking to be able to solve the new tasks in this sector. Third, the government has notified us that we want to be 100 pst. Member of Horizon 2020, the major new research and innovation programme. The EU has not really fully adopted it yet, but it is going to make very important premises for European research policy in the future. For Norwegian researchers and research communities, it will be very important to see what opportunities lie there. This is a politically very, very interesting attitude – and it's a very funny attitude. We red-green hold together throughout the whole setting – it shouldn't shock anyone, we have good experience with it – and in many places the committee is completely united. But when we start to look a little bit closer to the opposition, there is a pattern that is clearer between the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, while the Right has an egotrip on the side. I think that's funny and interesting, but perhaps also a little alarming about the stability of research policy in the future. The government has high ambitions for Norwegian research, and we have prioritised research very high. The real growth in the state budget since 2005 has been 12,5 p.p., the real growth in research at 32 p.p. Our research effort per capita is second highest in the OECD area, so there are considerable funds we spend on research. It's incredibly important, because it's going to be crucial if we can keep growing. We're a high-cost country, we can't expect to produce the cheapest. Nor can we expect a small population of five million to dominate international research policy. But it's important that we have high ambitions and are able to eat well. Our overall assessment is that the quality of Norwegian research is good and that development is moving in the right direction. But you don't have to be bad to get better. We have higher ambitions, and a good basis only gives even better opportunities to really sharpen the quality. In this big message, we outline several ambitious actions to create more top-class research and education environments in the international community, to better facilitate boldness and innovation in the research system, to contribute to the development of business and the public sector, to stimulate stronger internationalisation in parts of the system – that there is a good link between national and international instruments – and to facilitate even better interaction on the development and use of knowledge. We implement the main objectives that were in St. meld. No 30 for 2008-2009, Climate for Research – and which is now creating uncertainty around the right – because we need to live up to what is the theme of the Communication, namely long lines. It's not like we're going to throw on our main priorities in research policy every four years. We shall contribute to meeting global challenges; we shall provide high-quality health and care services; we shall strengthen research-based welfare policies and the provision of welfare services; we shall promote a knowledge-based business across the country; and we shall contribute to business development in the areas of food, marine, maritime, travel, energy, environment, biotechnology, ICT, new materials and nanotechnologies. To achieve this, Norway shall have a well-functioning research system. We need high quality research, we need a high degree of internationalisation, and we need efficient use of research resources and results. In addition, the government will stress that the quality of education is very important for society’s ability to change and innovation. It is by making better use of our resources — labour with increased knowledge, competence and the use of technology — that we need to ensure that the key factors for conversion and value creation in the Norwegian economy are in place. The growth in allocations to industry through the Research Council from 2005 to 2011 has been 74pst. This is the most marked growth in the period, mainly due to the growth in the allocation of user-driven research. We will continue to prioritise a broad range of instruments, both the opening-up of research and innovation funds and thematic efforts in areas where Norway has a strategic advantage. The notification alerts e.g. a marine knowledge lift. It is essential that we have a clear perspective on how we should exploit the opportunities that lie in linking ourselves to Horizon 2020. Here I warn that we should develop our own strategy – a reinforced strategy – in relation to the following: We have many environments that are currently on the road, which are offensive and cooperate well within what has been the EU Framework Programme. But we can improve this, because our quota is probably going to be about about. 16 B.C.E. until 2020. We're going to have a strategy to make the most of the quota money we give, both in terms of the areas in which we participate, how we can support Norwegian candidate processes, and how we can help equip Norwegian research environments to guide us in this direction. But we also need to ensure that we have a space for action on national priorities, both because there are many peculiarities associated with these EU programmes, and because there are some areas where Horizon 2020 will not give priority to our own needs. This year’s Research Communication is distinct from previous research notifications by placing a significant emphasis on the relationship between research and education. Research contributes to knowledge development. Quality of education contributes to innovation, and the new global academic sharing culture through the Internet has provided us with examples of global knowledge sharing, cited by world-renowned academics and universities. This may mean revolutionary opportunities for democratisation, application and dissemination of knowledge. It is essential that those working on research have good framework conditions for doing a good job. Therefore, many of the measures announced in the communication are precisely targeted at it. I'm very happy. I am very pleased that the proposal on entry positions has been received so well in many environments. It provides a possibility of greater predictability. We have announced that we will step up efforts against temporary employment. There is a very important part now in the governance dialogue with different institutions, where those institutions that have increased or still high levels of temporaryity can be required to create their own action plans to reduce the temporaryity. So this is very important. I am also very pleased that the Committee is fully unanimous in terms of open availability – open access – and the ambitions we have in this area. This is a good starting point for an offensive research policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1246	The majority has registered the Council of State's complaint that she was not present at the start of the meeting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1251	With the good words about the EU Horizon 2020, I could have asked why this is so crystal clear now, but was so unclear two months ago. However, I am pleased that the Council of States is clearly aware of the need to balance the work of the EU Horizon 2020 against national knowledge needs. However, I will ask you a question about why you can't fix the 3 pst. goal. It's been SV and all three red-green parts before. But now you're not. It will not be fixed by decision in the Chamber today. Nor do you – as the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party want and ask – want to be time-bound when a long-term plan is presented. Why was this quite natural to do before, but is it very bad and difficult to do in 2013 – perhaps to come back to the matter in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1261	It's important to have the 3 pst. goal as an overall goal and stick to it over time, but it's a very difficult management goal for several reasons. It's because 2 of the 3 percent is the Norwegian business that's supposed to be responsible for delivering. I have to say that I am quite surprised at the approach earlier in the debate here, because there are two ways to secure the 2 percent if you're engaged in big business or if you're a politician. One is to take it over and say, OK, the state takes responsibility for the 2 percent that business is going to take responsibility for. I think that's a very bad strategy, and I'm absolutely sure it's going to go beyond basic research and other important tasks that are today funded by the public share of the research ambition. The second is to force business to implement it. I can't see that we have any tools that would force business to implement it. I'm very happy that we're now up to 0.92 pst. of one percentage for which the State and the public are to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1270	Having a goal without tidalizing it is like sending a large Christmas card with a wish for Christmas and a good new year. That's not good enough, in my opinion. In the past, there has been a broad political consensus that this goal should be set in time to create the necessary pressure. It is a goal that neither the Progress Party nor the SV – or anyone else in this room – have found, it is a target recommended by both the OECD and the European Union, and it is a goal that says something about how to maintain well-being and prosperity in a country. The means of achieving this are, of course, known to be the business of small and medium-sized enterprises and international actors. It's the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, it's the TaxFUNN, it's the NCEs, it's the SFIs, it's the establishment of GCEs, it's the business-Ph.d. schemes, and it's infrastructure, for example. It is simulator capacity, Ocean Space Center in Trondheim and Life Science Center at the University of Oslo. All these things are measures that you know will work to make business spend more of their money to research. Nevertheless, the government is not willing to fix anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1277	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Lien: all the good measures, all the good proposals. All that is research-stimulating measures that the government is in favour of. So maybe you can disagree a little bit about the force ratio. But there's nothing in this big setting that would suggest that the Progress Party and the Right can say that by 2030 we're guaranteed up to 3 p.m., or that the Christian People's Party and the Left can say that by 2020 we're guaranteed up to 3 p.m. So there's no credibility in the timing that the representative Tord Lien or others in the opposition are trying to add. We are totally dependent on the following: it is that all sectors of society prioritise knowledge development and research. It must be in the air, it must be in everything we breathe and see. And it must in itself be a driving force for Norwegian business to also see that it is in their own interest to invest in research and knowledge development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1284	Last week, when the research survey was presented, the Council of State used industry's lack of investment in research to explain Norway's problem in this field. Actually, we probably agree on the problem description, but what we are asking for from the Right is a proposal for a solution. Now I have read the research message from perm to perm, to the eye has become large and wet, and I therefore find no new measures in this communication to increase research in industry. So maybe the Council of State can then help us, when this is the big challenge that she herself has repeated both here in the Grand Duchy and at the latest a few weeks ago at a conference: what is the government's approach to this research communication that is to solve the problem and get business to research significantly more — significantly more?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1293	We have put forward an ambitious research report under the heading Long Lines, where the main thing is that we should set up a system of ten-year long-term plans to strengthen predictability in this area and to raise ambitions in this area. It's a long-termity and predictability that's incredibly important for Norwegian business, because then they know what they can relate to. Point two: We stress all the way that cooperation between institutions, between universities, universities and business can be much better. Sometimes it's good, somewhere else it has to get a lot better. Point three: Nutrition PhDs are highlighted as particularly effective and good instruments, but there are many other instruments in this area as well. Point four: We see that the Research Council's allocations of programmes have increased particularly within the business sphere and that they must continue. I think I share with the representative Skei Grande's disappointment about the right in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1306	I'm going to stick to the government's policy in the next line as well. It is, of course, an instrument, and what the Council of State was about, for example. tax incentives. We have the TaxFUNN scheme, we have what is called the BIA, or the User-led innovation arena, as two key instruments to stimulate business. We're not going to force business, we're going to stimulate business to invest more in research. The BIA received extra money in connection with the crisis package that the government submitted after the financial crisis. The last time, in the context of the revised national budget, both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister were in advance until, in the middle of the Højre national meeting, to tell us that a new crisis may now occur for parts of the economy in Norway, it was now important to be in the forefront. Then the SkattenFUNN scheme was strengthened. Why is it only in the context of crises that this government is willing to stimulate more research in business? Is it a crisis policy, or should it be a research policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1317	TaxFUNN has a proceeds of approx. One and a half billion. kr and is involved in the financing of approx. 3600 different projects. It works well, and that's why we've also announced that we're going to increase the order by 100 million. kr. The BIA and other key business-directed instruments are of positive importance. Of course, I am also very familiar with what was the contents of the 2009 crisis package, and very pleased with how it worked. It has simply ensured that Norwegian business has been successful through the financial crisis. But what I think is a crucial challenge for us, which is common, is that everyone has to own the intense desire to be a knowledge company and run research-based development. It must be an incentive from the state, but the main driving force must be in industry itself. That's why I'm so concerned that we can get institutions and companies to cooperate closely, because then I'm absolutely sure we'll get some very important synergies out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1326	After the last rounds back and forth, there is no doubt that Minister of Industry Trond Giske should have been present in this Chamber. There is no doubt that we need more of business and business efforts. I think it's going to be more active to get it in place. I want to follow my yellow thread through this day. Although as many women as men now take a doctorate, hardly one of four professors is women. When we read the message, this very offensive sentence says: «The Government will ask the Gender Balance Committee for research into concrete proposals [[...]] During the consultation we have received concrete proposals, and the Committee on Gender Equality in Research refers to the fact that during their term of office they have made many recommendations and many proposals for action. Is the Council satisfied with the offensive statement that they will now ask for new measures to improve the balance of research?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1340	It is true that the Committee on Gender Equality in Research has made many proposals, many of which have also been taken into account by different institutions. I now see that many of the institutions have a completely different offensive attitude both to recruit capable women and to retain and facilitate capable women. But, of course, we're not good enough for this. In particular, we see that when there is now a majority of Norwegian citizens taking a doctorate, which is women, it is clear that we have opportunities. Then came a proposal in connection with the committee's discussion, which was a so-called 120 pst. model. I don't know it in detail. It may well be a good suggestion. It is a proposal that I would like to ask Kif, the Committee on Gender Equality in Research, to look into whether it is a proposal – I see it is implemented in other countries – that we can also be inspired by. We are impatient in this area, and then we have a super committee that accepts all offensive proposals that come, whether from the Storting, from Switzerland or from where it may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1347	I want to ask about a small part, and not the big picture – the arts. Kristin Clemet started a scholarship program for studies in the arts. The goal was to build up scholarships in most areas. Today we see that there is a huge search for the very few scholarship holders. There has been no increase in the number of scholarship holders under this government. Yesterday, on the Day Revy, we saw the most outstanding artists in the field of art who come to study abroad, who don't get scholarships to conduct the studies. It should be looked at by the Council of State — the question is whether she will be able to look at it as the Council of State. Why has the government not had any commitment to raising the arts? Why has there not been any increase in the scholarship program that Kristin Clement started? Why doesn't the Council of State want to help those students?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1358	The artistic development programme now referred to by Trine Skei Grande has been an absolute success. I fully agree with that. It has been approx. 50 people in that programme, and there are 23 scholarship holders in it today. It's not long since I was at an event that celebrated that it was ten years, and showed examples of what kind of doctoral degrees this program had produced. It was incredibly inspiring in all ways. I believe that this is something we should definitely bet on further. It also arouses international interest, because the arts are allowed to take their doctoral degrees on their own premises, and it is their own performing work that is the thesis, not the theory of an artistic expression. This is a question we have to follow up in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1368	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1371	A research debate dominated by the timing of the 3 pst. goal, I believe is a poorer debate than the importance of the matter deserves. I think there is little doubt that Norway is putting heavily on research. Nor is there any doubt that this is the broad consensus on the Stortinget. Not least, the setting shows this – and really also a large part of the debate. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that there are challenges in research policy either. So where are they? Our responsibility as research politicians is to facilitate more research, to improve research and to give research the place it deserves in society. There is no doubt that the potential for increased quality in Norwegian research institutions is present. There is no doubt that several Norwegian companies had made good sense to invest more in research. And then: we also have a way to go about using the knowledge we have – to the best of our society. The research message contributes well in this way. One of the most common clichés in the Norwegian social debate is: what are we going to live on after the oil? The question is strange in its banality. Like in all other industries, we live in the oil and gas sector, too. Knowledge, education and research form the basis for any modern society. This is largely the case in Norway — either acquired, experience-based knowledge transferred from one generation to the next, well preserved by means of a living cultural heritage, or theoretical knowledge built up in modern times, such as academic building blocks in a theoretical, logical construction work. The recognition that Norway is a rich, well-functioning and good country to live in, thanks to knowledge and research, I would like to be poorer. Then there would also be even greater excitement that a good future lies along the same road, along the same lines. For the Workers' Party, internationalisation and increased nutrient research are important and correct. That is why we are very pleased with the clarification on Horizon 2020, which is the EU's major research programme. For us it would be impossible to stand outside. Secondly, it is also important to increase business research. How? Most Norwegian jobs have no researchers. Some of them should definitely have had it, but most have no reason to hire a researcher. Public incentives will, of course, help to increase business research. But an increase of between 30 and 40 billion. kr in seven-eight-ten years, as some would like, is unrealistic. I think unfortunately there is no simple spell form that we could float around, a la Tingeling, and just let the powder hover over the quite country, it would start to be researched. It's not like that. The Committee has travelled and seen the most innovative and research-intensive areas in the world – in Europe, in the United States and Canada. What characterises research policy in these countries? What beats us are long-term, strategic management and clear leaders, good organisations, pleasant jobs, simple and clear goals, stimulation of those who think internationally, promotion of those who care about the students, and appreciation of those who work innovatively with business and working life. That means we need to have an increased general focus on research. We need cooperation, work sharing and concentration in practice – as we go through SAK. We have to work even more clearly and even stronger when it comes to that. We need to get the temporary back down further. We have started to see results – we have to move on. I am very pleased that the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen addressed this, as others have said so far, namely that temporaryity in the sector is not good. If we are to get the wise and the bold and the best to become researchers, we need to create environments where they thrive, where they have security for their own work, and where they can concentrate on research and don't worry about what to do after the temporary position has expired. In the United States, we still met a concept of an ecosystem in which business and researchers work together. We need to create meeting places for research and innovation; we need to create meeting places for investors and entrepreneurs. We have to connect this together, and we need to improve the quality of our studies. We lack that in a number of areas in Norway. We don't have it in place, we have to work for it, and it can be decided very little with a pen stroke here. It has to evolve over time – again via long lines. I think it's along this track we have to work on. We need to facilitate, and we need to stimulate, whether we are going to get up the nutrient-oriented research, which is the main problem today. Finally, on behalf of the red-green parties, I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1401	The Committee has done a good job in examining the Research Communication and has addressed a number of topics of major importance for research and value creation for the future. The Progress Party will point out that the Quality Reform for Higher Education has led to much more results-oriented research activities at universities and higher education institutions. The so-called teller edge system has been controversial and criticised for creating bureaucracy, but the results show strong growth in the number of publications, doctoral degrees, etc. The numerator edge system is not perfect. We know, among other things: that it may seem unnecessary bureaucratic. The drive party will maintain the system, but believes that the system needs to be improved, simplified and reinforced at the same time. Here we have to change to preserve. Among other things, commercialisation activities and cooperation between academia and business should be incorporated into the counter-border system. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the result-based system does not have to unilaterally focus on quantity, but to at least the same extent it must promote quality in education and research. The government has announced a comprehensive review of the funding of higher education and research. In this respect, the Progress Party will point out that the universities of Stavanger, Agder and Nordland have changed their status from regional colleges to universities. As state universities, these have had different and worse framework conditions than established universities and scientific colleges, especially in the area of research funding. The new universities have a special opportunity to strengthen research in the professional professions, but today’s funding provides an undesirable discrimination against their research efforts. We believe that this should be corrected. The Progress Party hopes that an overall review will also include a review of funding for private universities. A reasonable framework for grants must be found in consultation with the institutions, both with regard to the establishment of new places of study and grants to the infrastructure. Several private colleges have problems maintaining a good infrastructure for the students, and it is necessary to make changes in funding to allow them to do so without transferring the costs to the students through increased tuition fees. I would also like to come up with a proposal by the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that established research institutes can seek financial support in order to qualify for state basic funding. This will make that e.g. Polytec in Haugesund, which conducts very good research, can become eligible for basic funding. Then there was another jumping point, and it goes on the proposal on maritime education that is being discussed today. The Progress Party supports the intention of the proposal, but we do not want to support the proposals now because we will first put in place a national plan that fully illustrates the training needs of the sector. Following the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011, it became clear that Norway needs a stronger preparedness for terrorism. We need more knowledge of ideological, psychological and historical assumptions underlying terrorism, and not least of how terrorism can be prevented. Several universities and higher education institutions have launched education services in the area of social security and preparedness. In particular, in a field such as this, it is essential to strengthen coordination and coordination of the emergency response area. The Party considers that a National Centre of Competence for Social Security and Preparedness should be established. Such a centre shall strengthen the interaction and coordination between the various educational institutions which have, or are in the process of developing, professional environments and provision of training in this field. With regard to the establishment of such an emergency centre, I would like to highlight in particular the University of Stavanger, which has an international professional environment of over 50 researchers. They cooperate with a large international environment, and they already have a strong professional environment in the field of preparedness, social security and safety in the oil and gas industry. The University of Stavanger has a well-established cooperation with several institutions in Norway that are engaged in education and training. The message also describes the tripartite cooperation according to the health care model between the Stockholm College of Stord/Haugesund, Health Fonna and several municipalities, the aim of which is to ensure good patient progression across administrative levels. I want to take the opportunity to commend this cooperation, and I hope that there are several people who are responding to the message's wish that more people have to participate in that type of project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1424	Research and innovation are two of the key factors in Norway’s competitiveness. We know that we are under pressure in terms of competitiveness, with increasing wage costs and a trend in efficiency that is not able to follow the countries with which we interact and compete. It's become even more important to keep the pressure on the factors that give us the ability to fix it. Higher education of high quality is, in the next stage, the main factor in the success of research and innovation and is, of course, a crucial recruitment arena for this. Higher education, which stimulates and points to research as a career path, must be an important task for the sector. I'm glad to report. St. 18 for 2012–2013 addresses to such an extent the link between higher education and research and points to universities and higher education as an important and natural part of Norway’s research environment. I would therefore like to draw attention to the two proposals on document 8 which are on the right and which are dealt with together with the research communication. One proposal concerns the importance of raising the best university environments so that they can be among the best in the world. We have a good starting point with some institutes and environments of excellence that are already among the world's leaders in their fields, but these need targeted and predictable help from us to take a position that makes them recognised and gives them attraction in the international academic environment as well. It will be challenging for a small country like Norway to establish a complete university at the top of the world, but by building on the sharp minds and competent environments that already exist around our country, we will still be able to take such positions. Such a commitment will help us access the best teaching forces and increase access to other top-ranking academic environments. This will in turn make it possible for us to attract the best minds of students, both nationally and internationally. Such a targeted effort could provide us with a formidable boost to innovation and to boost competitiveness. The right has submitted another important document 8 proposal together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal expresses a desire to follow-up the work on quality in higher education through a report on the quality of studies. Reports suggest that study quality has not evolved in line with the intention of the Quality Reform. After four years of active and good dialogue with student organisations, I feel that there are two issues that stand out: the financial framework for students through student funding and access to housing and the desire for more student-active research. A large-scale communication addressing full-scale study quality will be an important contribution to further quality development. The opposition has inter alia: point to student-active research, practice, study funding and robust professional environments as the central theme of such a communication. The opposition is very pleased that, after promoting the proposal, we have received the support of the Council of State and that an overall committee is now behind this proposal. This is a demanding exercise with many cases treated as one. However, I will try to comment on something in the time I have left. Several proposals have been made for a change in the financing of different study offers. The right considers it essential to have an overall review of the higher education funding mechanism. This needs to be started immediately, and in this context, it is felt that it is important to provide an overview of the real costs and a mechanism to capture the cost developments of the various studies. The action space in the sector has been reduced under the red-green government, and underfunded study provision clearly reduces quality. The need for a comprehensive review means that the Right does not now support the individual proposals. Maritime education has also been a recurring theme in these four years. The opposition is united in the desire for a big message, also in order to ensure the integrity of future maritime education. It is sad that the government parties are not involved in this. Such a message could give all of us an overall approach to the challenges we face in this education, and not least enable us, as precursors, together with both industry and educational institutions, to find opportunities that lead us in the position of maritime industry in future solutions and needs. The competitiveness of Norway must be strengthened. Targeted focus on knowledge, higher education and research is crucial. The right will do more and are ready to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1439	A little bit out of the debate, I will join the chairman's chair. Rightly, the case-speaker rightly admitted that the work had been a kind of ‘educational journey’ for him personally. I will not claim on behalf of the Committee that there was a great and obvious need for it, but I record that he experiences it even after eight years on the Stortinget and in the Progress Party's group. So to the debate on the big message, there's no doubt that the research message will be a very good basis for raising Norway as a knowledge nation. For the Workers' Party, it is important to point out that, in the future, value creation and welfare should not be based on either cheap raw materials or low wages. Value creation and well-being shall be based on – not mediocre knowledge, but knowledge and research at a high international level. If we're just getting medium-sized, yeah, then the danger is that we don't reach the ambitious goals that we've seen for our society. The research effort on one hand shall be a fine mix between the long-term, basic knowledge building, which is mainly carried out at universities and our universities, and on which they themselves determine the device. On the other hand, we have clear thematic efforts in areas where Norway has natural advantages or as a contribution to meeting global challenges. In parallel, we have the thematically open tools to stimulate researchers and companies to follow their own exciting ideas. This, combined with a well-functioning forcing system, allows Norwegian research to maintain a high international level. In addition, when the government starts working on a long-term research plan, it is possible to raise the ambitions for improved quality. Few areas are as long-term as research, and few areas are so dependent on being shared with others to become a success as knowledge. Knowledge and research results shared with others are a prerequisite for the building of society. Thinking about long-term and having a secure framework with a focus on quality is an important key element of research policy. It is not strange, therefore, that the research message is well received in large parts of society. Even the opposition could not collect about a blackness measurement of the position at the start. There was a long silence in the stova, and nothing came from the opposition, which is usually both shocked and disappointed. Yes, it came a little, of course, but that was what had been printed up several weeks in advance and were old copies. When the opposition finally got to sum up, the comments sprung more than ever. Yeah, they're obviously in agreement that it's being used too little money. But until that, it's saying that the use of numbers is neither research nor knowledge-based. They've come to realize that there's actually a growth in research permits – yes, even the left has got this. But when, after several months of reckoning, the opposition has found that the growth in research appropriations is roughly the same as the growth in the budget, I have to point out that the real growth of research is 2.5 times higher than the growth in the budget for our period of action. Hardly any area has a corresponding growth. But the opposition cracks in the cabin and weather when it comes to the use of the exploration permits. It's worse. It cracks in the eye something as important as the long-term plan. Hardly any area is then based on being long-term as research. But the opposition does not have the power to unite on a long-term research and development policy. In the view of the timing of the 3 pst. goal, there is again a full crack. The self-appointed future Left Research Ministar is referred to in the research environment as populist when the party advocates their compliance with the 3 p.m. target by 2020. In the matter of timing the 3 pst. goal, there is no agreement between who is responsible and who has the authority to implement it. It is also regrettable that when the opposition now puts all the energy into this topic, it comes from the other research questions. But perhaps the most serious of all, is that the opposition party – including the very largest opposition party, Right – does not have the power to become a few of the target formulations for Norwegian research. Nor do they have the power to agree on alternative research formulations. And then it's good that the position makes up the plural and can adopt St. Report. No 18 for 2012–2013, Long lines – knowledge provides opportunities!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1467	Norwegian research and research policy are getting better and better. Norwegian researchers publish more and are more international than ever. That's good. I was the case rapporteur for the previous research report – Climate for Research. As I read the message we are handling today, it is based on the previous message, but many go further in important areas, and it is very joyful. And it's very gratifying that a ten-year long-term research plan is now being created. This will include, inter alia: provide predictability of investment in knowledge buildings and research infrastructures, and this is a demand when we meet the sector. It is good that the government proposes to maintain the 3 pst. goal. It is a demanding goal to achieve, not least in view of the contribution of industry to 2 of the 3 % of GDP. In my opinion, tying up the target will not help anything in achieving the 3 pst. target. However, it will be the various instruments we use to stimulate Norwegian business for more research. One of several instruments is the regional research funds, which I would like to pay some attention to. The research projects published under the auspices of these funds are not backward in terms of content and quality requirements compared to other research funds published by the Norwegian Research Council. The regional research funds were set up during the previous enlargement period, without the Progress Party and the Right. It is alarming – when we hear today the concerns of representatives of these parties for the business opportunities for research and the ambitions to achieve the 3 p.m. target. However, it is gratifying for us who supported the establishment of this instrument that these regional environments receive good evaluations in research and innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises. The Nordic Institute for Innovation, Research and Education, NIFU, has evaluated the regional research funds in two stages. After three years of operation, it is established that the scheme clearly identifies and contributes to mobilising research and development in the regions. I know the Regional Research Fund in Central Norway best. When I see what projects are now being launched, I am convinced that the funds contribute to increased value creation and innovation in the region and therefore in our country. One of the areas currently identified is blue-green biotechnology, which is also a national field of activity. The supported research projects must be firmly anchored in the participating enterprises and provide a good opportunity to exploit the results in retrospect. Interaction, multidisciplinaryness and clustering are essential in these projects and a prerequisite for support. The regional research funds shall have a preparatory role for national and international projects. The regions have a specific responsibility for the close interaction between the activities of the regions and their relations with other national and international programmes and activities. Together with other instruments, such as VRI, regional innovation instruments, BIA, SkattenFUNN, university TTOs and others, we contribute to increased research activity and innovation in Norwegian business and thus have greater opportunities to achieve the long-term objective of 3 pst. The communication gives a good picture of the importance of multi-level research. There is broad support for basic research, and the Committee also stresses the importance of ensuring the freedom of basic research as well as stable and long-term framework conditions. There is no contradiction between this and efforts in the more entrepreneurial research and innovation work. For me, too, there is no contradiction between central, strong research environments and the environments that are now being built regionally and that help Norwegian businesses also increase their activity in research in order to increase value creation in small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, I would like to express pleasure in increasing research activity in the public sector. The creation of a doctoral system for public employees according to the model of the nutrition doctorate scheme is very welcome. In particular, this will be important in the healthcare sector, which faces major challenges related to demographic development. The education sector is another sector that needs a great deal of innovation and innovation to meet the challenges of the knowledge society. At all, the message we are discussing today is a forward-looking and good message and a worthy follow-up to the Climate for Research, which Tora Aasland presented four years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1490	Having a government that is in charge of the economy, which has an active industrial policy, where enterprises have long-term, far-reaching framework conditions, is one of the success factors for the creation of 340 000 new jobs in Norway since 2005. There are actually 130 new jobs every day – 130 every day. In order for Norwegian business to remain competitive, Norwegian environment and businesses must be at the forefront of the development and use of new skills, technologies and solutions. Norway is a high-cost country, and goods and services that are developed must be more attractive, profitable and environmentally friendly than existing products, and they must also be competitive in an international market. Just competence, adaptability, productivity and being in the forefront of technological solutions make us assert ourselves in competition internationally. Own R & D is important for companies’ productivity and competitiveness, including: to recover new technologies and innovative solutions. It is also to enter into cooperation with other enterprises and the research community. I am on a wide range of company visits every year, and most of them have had contact with our tools, with Innovation Norway in one or more contexts, and I would like to use the TaxFUNN or BIA scheme. This shows that it was absolutely right to fill in our toolbox. Research reports are very good, and I would like to highlight in particular the importance of the need for a tool in the Research Council for time-limited support for emerging areas or areas with special needs for migration, and the need to address the need for tools to contribute to increased cooperation between the public funded research environment and the health sector. Many of the background to this is that the message points out that there is an open question about whether it is adequately prepared for the construction of new areas where we have natural or competence advantages, but as a thematic trap outside of today's established bets. In order to make business more researchable, I would like to highlight the importance of the BIA scheme – the user-driven innovation arena. But the BIA is nothing new. That's our bet on the BIA from the government's side over several years. It's a very popular system, and there's a lot of seekers. I am therefore particularly pleased that the license to the program was increased by 9.4 million. kr in the year’s budget. BIA contributes to increased research in business. Public funds trigger considerable self-esteem, willingness to invest in larger projects and funding from business itself. Public support acts here as a catalyst and motivator for R & D activities in Norwegian business. Estimates show that 1 million. kr in support from the BIA programme of the Norwegian Research Council triggers about 2.2 million. kr from other sources, then mainly from private sources. Research projects will be characterised by their significant potential for value creation and commercialisation combined with research at a high scientific and technological level. These projects have a high priority for industrial policy and are mainly in the fields of environment, energy, health and ICT, process industry and product production – in other words, within important areas of government activity. Another good tool is SkattenFUNN – unbureaucratic and good. I'm happy with the 100-million increase. kr that came into a growth package. Then we're going to say that the TaxFUNN scheme is legal, it triggers not only the marginal projects, but also projects that in any case had seen the light of day. I am pleased that the government in the research message says that it will continue to give priority to a wide range of tools that stimulate high quality, good relevance and good interaction between research institutions and business. Later today, we are going to handle the maritime food message. There we have great ambitions on behalf of Norwegian seafood. One of the important concepts is just a maritime knowledge leap, with research and competence in focus. It's sad that the opposition doesn't get along here, in this case, either. This is a very important area for our business, and for the development of our small country in the future. It is good that the country has a plural government that powers and powers to think long-term and forward-looking, because it eats up our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1520	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1523	There is a blue thread between the Right's heavy stakes on highly qualified teachers and the ambition for world-leading research environments. Today's research is the basis for future profitable and innovative jobs. Therefore, we need to research more, communicate more and get better interaction between academics and Norwegian business. The right is pleased that a number of our proposals have been supported by an overall committee and contributed to providing Norway with an even more ambitious research policy. The right considers that all sectors of society need to recognise more fully the importance of research, to be encouraged to contribute to research and to make more systematic use of relevant research in order to further develop their own activities. The reader of the Right Research Policy document will see that the Right is both long-term and clear on challenges and actions. And once you have heard this debate, you can wonder if the government parties have read the vote, because the right has actually joined the need for a long-term plan, that the long-term plan must be concrete, and that it must be clearly coordinated by the Ministry of Knowledge. Norway has the opportunity to develop world-leading competences in some areas, but we do not come there without giving greater priority to research in the future state budgets. Therefore, the Right believes that we need to achieve the 3 pst. target of GDP by 2030. In particular, it is important to facilitate the use of research by Norwegian enterprises as an instrument for asserting itself internationally. If we don't want to be the cheapest, we have to deliver the very best product. The right will therefore strengthen incentives for business to research more in the future. The main resource for Norwegian research is the employees and the competences they possess. The main resource for Norwegian school is the teachers and the skills they possess. For this reason, it is central to the Right that the Public Sector PhD scheme must provide room for teachers wishing to participate in such programmes. The right has faith that more school-based research will contribute to new knowledge of what can affect and enhance the quality of school. We have to keep going, we have to have the quality in school up. Good real-life skills are the input to a great deal of research of great importance for future value creation and well-being in Norway. This means that the basis for solid research environments is actually laid in school. That's why the right is so busy that students are going to meet top competent math teachers from the first grade. For this reason, programmes such as Curiosity and other research-like programmes are so important to stimulate young children and young people’s exploration at an early age. That's why there's a blue thread between top-notch teachers and top-notch researchers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1538	It's fundamental for research to build on accumulated knowledge. This means that it is necessary for the researcher to have access to national and international knowledge status and sources of knowledge — and it is demanding. The amount of research publications has increased, and as knowledge has become an increasingly important driving force in the economy, the costs of access to research sources have also increased. It is not that new technology has reduced the cost of the technical and research libraries or research institutions. On the contrary, expenditure has gone right in the past. In most cases, researchers have an interest in sharing their results with others — it is the publication that gives research status. It is also that you have an interest in sharing from the standpoint: if I get access to your research, you get access to mine. We all depend on that. That's what's at the root of open publishing. I am very pleased that the government is so clearly saying in the message that it basically believes that all the research that is fully or partly publicly funded should be open to the public, and that this receives unanimous support from the committee. It is important to stress that open publication will largely be in addition to established scientific journals. Neither does open access mean that it will be free of charge for the institutions building up their scientific archives. For the time being, the price per publication in open archives is still above the price per publication in subscription databases. The difference is that in the first case the costs are charged to the institution contributing to archiving, while in the second case the institution or researcher seeking access is charged. Both of these ways of publishing will live next to each other for a while. Open publication is to establish a knowledge-based public opinion alongside the commercial market. It is necessary for commercial publication to have a competitor or counterpower to prevent monopolisation. The strict self-archiving requirements imposed by the authorities in open archives will help commercial publishers to accept that publication takes place in parallel. Building open archives is therefore an important task for institutions. It gets more expensive, but it gives access to smaller institutions. In parallel with that, we still have to have access to the commercial publications. Then it's important that the job that Cristin does – and then I don't think of the minister, but of the Cristin database system – to get access and licensing to databases continues. Open publishing is therefore not a way to save money, but a way to democratize access to research results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1556	The maritime industry is the industry in Norway with the highest value added after oil and gas industries. It employs about 100,000 people and creates values for approx. 150 B.C.E. kr annually. In addition, the industry in this country is special in that we can offer a complete maritime environment with actors in all sectors, from the cold on a ship being stretched and until it is in daily operation. Outside the world, the Norwegian industry has a huge reputation, which emerged clearly when the whole world's maritime food peaks last week were gathered here in Oslo under Nor-Shipping. In the context of Nor-Shipping, a concept called ‘Ocean Talent Camp’ was also organised, in which around 11,000 high school students were presented with the many possibilities of choosing a maritime profession. In addition, ‘Youngship’, an organisation started and operated by young people in the industry, has had a high commitment to increase the number of maritime industry professionals. The bet they're making is impressive. I am convinced that it will produce results. At the same time, a few ferrets alone cannot solve the challenges of recruitment to the maritime industry. Many suggest that the maritime education has unfortunately been down-prioritized. It's a bad attitude with textbooks. Several schools use teaching materials that are either non-Norwegian or from the 1970s. The ships from the 1970s are scrapped. Now it's time that the learning material from that time on, too. In addition, there is a recruitment problem for the teaching profession in these subjects. Often it is difficult to find people who have enough knowledge, who want to learn, and who make it fit into a possible tour. In addition, it is hardly particularly motivating to know that if you choose to teach in maritime subjects, you have to find your own teaching materials and you have to put up the teaching without a clear framework. In turn, teaching without a clear framework leads to students coming on board ships with very different backgrounds and understanding. Some are already ready to throw away, others should have actually had another year on land. This is due to a different education by different place of education. At the same time, we see that professional training also wears off. A number of errors and shortcomings were identified in educational institutions across the country. Lab capacity and simulator capabilities are often poor in those colleges that are far from a university or college. There is a need for the co-location of colleges and colleges. Such co-location will allow institutions to attract exchange of resources and address some infrastructure-related challenges. We must train for the future. We must have a maritime education that enables Norway to maintain our world-leading position in one of the world's most important industries. Then there is a need for a promise, and the promise must come now. We don't have time to wait, because the ship is leaving now. I refer you to those proposals in Innst. 316 S and Document 8:59 S already promoted by Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of Line Henriette Hemdal, Dagrun Eriksen and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1579	The representative Bremer swings to new heights, but he pushed the roll call, because it is so far the Progress Party and not the Right which is the largest opposition party in this room. Then I wonder if the representative Bremer has also had poor memory, because he said that there was little shock and disbelief, both in the opposition and elsewhere, when the government provided the research report. I remember that it was – perhaps not primarily in the opposition, but in the academy, and in the position it was not so little shock and disbelief when the government in the research message chose to spread uncertainty about participation in the EU Horizon 2020. It was also in the opposition, something like that. I made a clear statement. This is the sovereign most important instrument of international cooperation for the Norwegian Academy. That is why I am pleased that the Storting has now cleared up the uncertainty that the government tried to spread. So to the 3 pst goal: if we mean seriously that we don't control the means to achieve the goal, why do we have to have a goal every day? So let's just leave it there. On the contrary, I would say that it is we who control the instruments, and therefore it is natural to have a goal. Therefore, it should also be fixed in time. Norwegian business consists of a few large, heavy international groups where researchers have the best framework conditions for research. They have an instrument that is able to hit to some extent. This concerns Statoil, Telenor and Hydro – and some of our major international actors. Then we have many small and medium-sized enterprises. There we know a lot. We have many instruments that we know to work, but the instrument is not primarily designed for small and medium-sized enterprises. There's the most to pick up, but the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, the NCE, the SFI and the Nutritional PhDs work. However, for the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most important ones to mobilise now, it is the SkattenFUNN scheme – and this is not something the Progress Party has discovered, it is something that is well documented and that is, among other things, Innovation Norway points to, Director Fahlvik at the hearing, among others. – which is most targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises. But they have a lot to do, and we don't have all the answers today. It is also important, of course, to establish infrastructure. That's why I'm glad the Oslo Space Center got such a good report in the message. It can become a cheek egg that will mobilise private capital, strengthen research fields where we have both natural, knowledge-based and business-structured advantages. Then I hope that the Council of State will continue to take with it that the Committee also asks for the establishment of a national TTO to coordinate the work between the TTOs in the major universities of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1594	I join the previous speaker said that the Progress Party is so far larger than the Right here in the Stortinget. I have registered that several speakers from the government parties have attacked the Right. It's a reconstructed thing. On page 12 of the Committee’s opinion, a list is available from the Right-wing Research Policy document — four main objectives and six strategies. In addition to that, we have picked up a number of the proposals we have made in connection with this matter from our document. I promise a great prize to the one who can demonstrate the contrast between these four main objectives and the six strategies and these five strategic and four horizontal objectives that underpin the activities of the Research Council. Of course, there's no contradiction at all. But sometimes we've called it a little bit different, and we've merged, simplified and structured it a little bit differently. There's no contradiction in reality. The Minister of Knowledge called it Right’s ‘Egotrip’. In this case, there is an egotrip to which the Committee has joined, because of the eight proposals recommended by the Committee today by the Stortinget, six of the eight come from the Right Egottrip. Then it's a very successful egotrip, I have to say. The Research Association has stated at the Committee's meeting that the Committee has made the government's communication of research more ambitious through its discussion. Six of the eight proposals that make it more ambitious come from the Right. Then it's a seventh proposal. It is that the Stortinget asks the government to set up an electoral research program. I just want to stress that in voting we are going to support that proposal. The eighth proposal is to annex the Research Communication to the Protocol. That means that almost everything that the Research Association says makes the research report more ambitious comes from the Right. But if you want to call it an egotrip, it's all right for us. The most important thing for us is to have an ambitious research policy, and we have that in relation to the government and in relation to what we have presented. Finally, I would like to say that the alarming thing in this debate is that the Minister for Industry has not been here, that he has not been involved in the debate where we have discussed how to solve the great challenge of Research Norway, namely to get the industry more research-based. So the Minister of Industry does not want to be involved in the debate. It's alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1607	There are more speakers here today who have suggested that Norwegian businesses invest less in research than countries that are naturally comparable. Now there's someone who's trying to explain it to some extent by saying that we have a business structure in Norway that makes it natural that we're a little bit lower in industrial research. That's not correct. If you read the indicator report, it says that even if we compensate for business structure, Norwegian industry invests less in research than our neighboring country does. I've had the pleasure of working on nutrition research both in business and at university, and I've come to the conclusion that, without comparison, the most important thing we can do to bring up research in industry is to strengthen cooperation between universities and universities and the business community. We can use instincts of different kinds, but without comparison the most important thing we do is to build down the bulkheads between academia and business. There are mutual prejudices between academics who don't like commercialism in business, and there are prejudices in business against academics who don't care about business. I've seen that we get to put them together, generate trust, and it generates new exciting projects. We have a number of cluster collaborations in Norway that are funded through the NCE programme and the ARENA programme, and now it is signaled that we will get the Global Centers of Expertise. This is an act that actually raises research, and it also raises research for small and medium-sized enterprises. Such clusters give rise to the situation where large enterprises with time and resources to build up cooperation with institutions take with them small and medium-sized enterprises so that they also pass on research results to small and medium-sized enterprises. That's how they see that there's something to get for them in the research general. Without comparison the most important thing for business to invest in research is that we have basic research in top international division. The industry in the top international division cannot be expected to cooperate with Norwegian research institutions if one is not in the top global division on the basic research page. There I think the government has done a very good job by investing in a ten-year research plan. Investing in a ten-year research plan would raise Norwegian research to a level that would make business think it interesting to cooperate with Norwegian institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1616	Some reflections: the representative Tor Bremer said that this 3 pst. goal would be involved and turn the focus from content to just about percentage talk. It was freely translated, and not on as sounding parishes as the representative himself speaks. I think it is interesting that only the representatives of the government parties here today do not want to fix the target. They've spent a lot of their speaking time on the opposition, that is, when or if you should or should not. If this 3 pst. goal is so impossible and moving and difficult, maybe the government should have canceled the whole goal, and not just dropped off in terms of timing. So a little visit to the business community and the need for business. I also miss the Minister of Industry's participation in the debate, because we need that vote in order to bring up the efforts of the business community. No one here has called for the state to take over, but very many – especially in the opposition – have talked about a more active state to have incentives that business can and will actually use, and that are targeted at them. The tax FUNN scheme has had a fate that has gone up and down a little. It was introduced by the Bondevik II government, and now we are happy that the whole Storting says that this is an important system that we need to take care of. The BIA has been a good tool most of the time. As regards the contributions by the representative Alf Egil Holmelid on cooperation between industry and the academy, the gift-enhancing scheme is also an important scheme. It has also taken away this government, and has gradually come back to it. There are a lot of tools and incentives that need to be done, and there is also a lot we have to do to get a better dialogue, because they speak each other's languages in academia and in business. Many have been in Horizon 2020. Of course, it is important to get as much back from the quota as possible. That is a good focus, because it provides a driving force, and the international cooperation that Horizon 2020 and other EU programmes have contributed to for Norwegian researchers is important. However, the difficult debate is that the whole quota is included in the framework of research. There should be an opening for an assessment of it in the future, so this is not at the expense of Norwegian research effort in total. As far as equality is concerned, I would like to say, it's nice to talk the talk, but they don't walk the walk.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1629	I want to make three or four comments. The first one is that everywhere there is someone falling between two chairs – as it always does. In us, there are small special research environments, and some of them are so distinct from specific measures. Then I think about election research that we've gotten into this message. They run an important research agency that we're engaged in. It is a small, vulnerable environment, while at the same time it is an important environment that is present when understanding political trends. They have collected long-term data, which it is important to maintain. I am very pleased that we can get this in more orderly forms, hopefully with a 10-year programme that is being put at a competitive disadvantage. I am very pleased – and also that the Right has chosen to support this. Then we ensure cross-political agreement on that. So to the Right's special remarks about its main goals. The representative Henning Warloe explained about them. After hearing his explanation, I don't understand why they couldn't join the rest of the committee's comments. Although the notes contain slightly different words and leads, it would have been a strength for the message if everyone was there. Then I want to comment on this with the 3 pst. goal. Mr. Tord Lien has framed all the arrangements, all of which are supported here, and to which there is going to be money on the harvest budget. It concerns the Tax Fund, it concerns the BIA and all the other schemes that were framed. The gift-enhancing scheme does not increase business research – it is money that goes right into the university and research environments, which are not research out of business, although it was mentioned in this context by the representative Dagrun Eriksen. But we're talking about really big money – 30 billion. kr – 40 br. kr. It is not possible that the FUNN can mobilise that much money. So you're talking about completely different grips, and those grips I haven't heard any of the world's things about. You have to think completely different, completely new. It's awesome. I think we should respect that neither of us has the means, because this is very complex, which I was in my post. The countries that make this happen make a lot of systematic action over a long period of time. They can then have the hope that they can find a solution over a period of 5–10–15–20 years. It's important. With regard to which state councils are taking part here today, I can tell you the following: The Minister of Knowledge agreed with Stortinget on the day we were going to have the debate, so that we could be sure that it took place. The Minister of Fisheries has been invited directly here. The Minister of Industry has not been invited by Stortinget to participate in the debate. He knows it's today, but it was too late to change his program.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1644	The President makes it clear that the Storting always wants state councils to welcome debates – more at once and more in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1647	There is an enormous need for engineers in industry, maritime nutrition and oil and gas. Developments in these industries are such that there will be an ever-increasing need for engineers in the coming period. Large investment from different industries will require increased engineering skills. Engineering needs in Norway will be constantly high and growing. The huge shortage of engineers leads in particular to two things: the wages for engineers are being pushed up, and an increasing proportion of engineers are being picked up from abroad. High wages are nice for engineers, but challenging for business. The Norwegian salary level in the competitive industry is currently 70 pst. higher than competitors in other countries. It goes without saying that it's almost impossible to compete with such assumptions. In addition, when we see a real decline in grants for business-related research, we can risk not being able to compete for innovation and innovation. So we're going to praise ourselves. At the same time, increasing labour-gathering from abroad will not only drain other countries for badly needed skilled labour, but also increase the risk that the skills we currently possess will one day move out of the country again. There are alarming numbers who are jumping off engineering training. As many as 30 pst.–40 pst. of those starting from the engineering study, do not complete the education. And most of those who jump off are struggling with mathematics. NOCUT has shown that several of the low-searched colleges took students with the grade two in mathematics from high school. When we know that the introduction of four or better grade requirements in mathematics for admission to the NTNU Civil Engineering Study has produced very good results and reduced non-response, there is good reason to believe that a character requirement for engineering training will have the same effect. Despite the government's real science strategy, the proportion of students who choose the most difficult mathematics in the third crash goes down. From over 7 000 students with the most advanced mathematics in 2008, the number today is below 6 000 students. So it's a fall in absolute numbers over a period of time when the juveniles are increasing. Unfortunately, today it is not a good enough offer for those who are very good in mathematics. With advanced mathematics as a new subject of choice, the students who choose it will be able to go up the level of ordinary mathematics as well. Engineering training is likely to be the least economically rational training for educational institutions. It is the education that has the lowest income compared to expenditure. The cost of the engineering study with the need for equipment, laboratories and personal guidance is so costly that it belongs to cost category D. In addition, it is essential that the capacity of civil engineering studies be expanded as far as possible without any particular decrease in the quality of the students being admitted. There will probably be room to accommodate another 500 more students per year, without the quality of the candidates falling dramatically. However, today’s infrastructure in the study places is not possible. The entry for scientific equipment needs to be expanded and targeted efforts must be made to expand laboratory capacity in study sites offering engineering studies, such as NTNU and other study facilities in regions with high growth and an increasing need for engineers. In addition, facilitating transitions between the engineering study and the civil engineering study will help to increase the number of civil engineering students.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1662	Let me first say a few words about the vote's proposal No. 7, to establish an electoral research programme. – It goes like a red thread through the whole setting that the Progress Party does not like political governance of research. However, after considering this question some time after the suspension, I have concluded that I will recommend the representatives of the Progress Party to vote in favour of Amendment No 7. Since this is research on how the Storting is complex, it is easier to argue that it is possible to make decisions in the Storting about it. I think the representative Holmelid said something very wise. Stronger interaction between the academia and the business community is absolutely fundamental to the success of researching business. I also want to draw up something the Progress Party has called for, namely to make it easier for universities and colleges to hire researchers, doctors, without so many publication credits in second readings. If you have been researched for 25 years at Hydro's aluminium research facility, you are one of the world's leading researchers in the production of aluminium, but you are currently largely not qualified to have a second position in the Norwegian Academy. After we wrote this comment, and after the attitude was given, I've had the pleasure of being informed that the University of Oslo is now working on a strategy that includes this. I hope that there is a strategy that the Ministry of Knowledge will stimulate, so that others copy it. There is no doubt that getting doctors with long experience from business into the academy will be positive in this way. I also think it is positive to strengthen the interaction between academics and business that we will now have a strategy to strengthen student active research. If you have been exposed to and involved in research as a student, it is obviously more likely that you will continue to follow international research fronts in the future, whether you work in academia or in business. So I think that in itself would be positive. I do not think there can be any doubt that the quality of studies, which is now also being notified, is important. If industry is confident that the quality of education is high, it will also contribute to increased confidence and inter-sectoral cooperation. I'm afraid I have to go up to the pulpit one more time, because once again I don't have any more speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1677	The President expects the representative to consider proposals for Roman numeral VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1680	Yes, Roman number VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1686	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1689	The representative, Henning Warloe, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1692	Very briefly: I halted when I heard Marianne Aasen's comments, but Marianne Aasen from the Workers' Party said something very important – actually a recognition that we've been looking forward to in this debate: if you want to significantly strengthen or increase the research effort in business, it requires completely different instruments than what we have today. Yeah, I totally agree. That is what we have challenged the government parties and the government councils throughout this debate: Where are the new and stronger instruments to bring about this huge increase in the research effort of industry, all of which – at least all the government councils I have heard – point to is the great challenge for Norway. So there must be other means of doing this. Instead of demanding that the opposition include this list of instruments, perhaps the government should have thought about it in the context of the research report we have been discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1697	The 2013 research barometer was presented a short time ago. It compares countries and describes Norway’s position in research. Here you can see some findings that give particular cause for concern. One of the findings was that no matter how we measure this, Norway spends less on research than our neighbouring countries Finland, Sweden and Denmark. I cannot come up with one single good reason why Norway should slow down in research — on the contrary. Norway shall be equipped for the future through a power cap for research. It is what contributes to innovation, to new businesses, to profitable jobs and to better well-being. This is in stark contrast to Minister of Industry Trond Giske's statement to the Address Newspaper for a while: ‘Not seriously that we score low on research and innovation’. Well, it's serious that we score low on research and innovation. For knowledge, research and innovation is essential for our competitiveness, it is essential to strengthen business, and it is a prerequisite for future well-being. It would have been very nice if Minister of Industry Trond Giske could be present in Stortinget during the research debate, especially when we know that there is in Norwegian business research should increase in the future. I have obviously misunderstood a little – because the representative of the Labour Party almost regrets on behalf of the Minister of Industry that he is not invited, that is why he is not present in the Chamber. As far as I know, the Minister for Industry has not participated in any research debate during this period. It's very bad. I thought it was part of the Minister's portfolio – what's about research and innovation in business. So I feel that it is a pity that he is not there. On the other hand, I would like to promise that if the Right wins the elections for the harvest, there will be a long-term and predictable effort in the field of research, and that the rest cut from the red-greens will be replaced by a boost in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1713	I wish I could guarantee that this was the last time I spoke in this debate, but I don't think I can guarantee it. Let me first say that knowledge is power. That's why the government and a total collapse—with some intensifications from the opposition—rewrite ‘open access’ of great importance. Knowledge is power, so it is a democratic problem that many are kept out because of economic issues in international research fronts – in months and years after things have been published. It's obviously also an academic problem that some academics are kept out of the good company because they don't have financial muscles to access all the research done out there. It is basically a broad political consensus that there is a need for a power collection. The world is becoming more and more international – and it is getting smaller and smaller. One out of three employees will work in the future in competitive business. What do we spend time in Norway? Yes, it's Trondheim v. Bergen, it's Alta v. Tromsø, it's Oslo v. Rokla – mainly. But our competitors are not in Oslo or Bergen; they are in Singapore, Shanghai, Cape Town, Houston, Southampton, New York, San Francisco, Moscow and everywhere else in the world. We dig our heads down into the sand and argue about which side of Mjösa or what jointery in Møre and Romsdal is best, and where the bet should take place. This is an interesting political exercise that many of us really enjoy, but it doesn't help. It doesn't help if Hedmark hits Oppland or if More and Romsdal beat Sogn and Fjordane, while we lose against the international knowledge environments out there. We – At least the Progress Party claims it – have relatively much money in this country. But what we can't decide about here in the Storting is that the number of wise heads is probably as limited in Norway as in all other countries – regardless of financial capital. Then we have to bet on and force these heads and deal with the international competitive situation that is getting tougher and tougher. This is partly to the representative Kristoffersen of the Workers' Party, too much of the reality I described now, shares the Workers' Party in the position, but one nevertheless chooses to maintain regional research funds, and one is not as sceptical as the Advance Party and partly Right in terms of regionalization of research in general, and not least in terms of health research in particular. We're worried that there'll be too much regionalization of this. So competitors are not in the other regions of Norway, but in Southeast Asia, North America, etc. I thank you for what has been a good debate so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1726	I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Lien, that this has been a good debate. Many of the perspectives we very much agree on. It was said in connection with the Research Barometer that no matter how measured the Norwegian research effort, we came out worse than our neighbouring country. That's completely wrong. It is only in one context that I say that I wish we had a slightly lower gross domestic product, and that is when I meet my Nordic colleagues. Then I say, if any of you want to take over our gross domestic product, with the results it gives for how to measure research efforts, then be so good. Then they'd like to hit everybody. Norway has the second highest research effort per capita — when measured in this way — in the OECD area. That means we have a significant research effort. Of course, we want it to increase, but we also want it to be more focused and we want to be sure that we get good quality for what we invest. Both of these perspectives address the research report. The most important thing — I have been through several times — is a ten-year long-term national research plan. Then we're also going to review the funding of colleges and universities. It is important in research contexts, but also to focus on education. Then I am glad that the new approach to entry positions in Norway has been well received – and many people want it. There is also broad agreement to have a strong grip on the temporaryity of employment policies in many institutions. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there should be open access to research results. It's about democratization. It's about distribution. It's about the fact that researchers in poor countries will also be able to share some of what we're financing. But it is also about the power of research. It is clear that the faster new, interesting research findings can be disseminated to an entire research world, the faster there are those who can go on developing their own research on the basis of it. Then it's important that we also get a public doctoral system, that we get a gift-enhancing system that gives institutions more opportunity to control where the government-spent funds will come, and that there is a strong educational perspective in the research communication. I think that is crucial. So just a few comments on business research. I very much agree with the perspective that the representative Holmelid and several others have taken up, that it is when you see the benefits you can have of each other, that you can really get this to speed up. When I look at the alternative budgets that the Christian People's Party and the Left have had on the research side, the Christian People's Party has increased the research effort by 160 million. kr in relation to the government. To compensate for the research needs of business, we're talking about five to six billion. kr per year. There's sea in between! We need a strategy, and common benefit is the most important strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1745	One of the things that is made clear in this communication is that we should have better coordination between departments in terms of research. Actually, all the state councils should be here, because everyone has research portfolios. All our colleagues should also be involved in this discussion, because many have larger or smaller budget lines where there are significant sums of money going to research, so this is a debate that goes far beyond our committee, of course. However, I gave the case information, I experience, about why not the Council of States Trond Giske was present. He's able to defend himself, we all know that. Then there's this business research and the 3 pst. goal: I mean with gravity that there's going to be a slightly poor debate – that's the concept I used in my post – if that's what we're going to focus on. It's a hairy goal in itself to have 3 pst. As a goal, it's even more hairy to temporalize it, and it's so hairy that it'll be painful, it's my claim, for those who time it to 2020. There are significant challenges to adopting it in this room, when there are thousands of small decisions out there in small, medium-sized and large enterprises it depends on and that have to go far beyond what the instrument could stimulate. Then it's about what several representatives have mentioned: the fact that you have cultural differences, that all people have to experience that it's useful for them, that it's tricked for their business, that it's good for their research environment to participate in better cooperation with universities, institutes, colleges, etc. I'm asking for more humility simply on that issue, because there's no quick fix – it's not just to adopt it here, and then it becomes a reality. That's what I wanted, because it deserves this theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1754	The representative of Hofstad Helleland is trying on what I would call talking down the research when she says that we're in a bad position on different measurements. The truth is, there's been a lot of research under the red-green government. Since 2005, research appropriations have grown by 32pst and the public contribution has increased from 0.8pst. to 0.92 pst. So we're approaching the 1 pst. So it's said that the Research Barometer shows that we're in bad shape. That's not true. To the extent that research can be measured quantitatively, Norway has the clearest growth in the number of published articles, of the countries being compared. So we have a rising curve. The number of articles published has increased by 84 pst. from 2001 to 2011. In the case of quotations, we are above the EU-15 average. As the Council of State said, it's also the way we get high on the barometers when we measure in GNI. What we have challenges is, in particular, business research. This can be explained by the fact that we have many small and medium-sized enterprises and that we have large sectors that are excluded from these indicators and barometers. So I just want to say that there's a lot of consensus about the main lines of the research report. It will also bring us up on the barometers, is the idea, although the Right has chosen to stand outside part of the notes. So it shouldn't be that the leftover impression is that we have a bad focus on research in Norway. It doesn't deserve our research communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1763	It is obvious that we have major challenges — I would say the most, perhaps, at the cultural level — when it comes to boosting business research. Today, we feel that our businesses, the research community and higher education institutions may too much live alone with too tight shots between themselves. I see that the countries and regions that are more happy to gain innovation and research have a much closer culture, where they meet and exchange ideas and ideas about the future. It is also true that our business structure and the composition of our businesses are a challenge, because they are not particularly research-intensive. Norwegian enterprises with less than 10 added stand for 36 pst. GDP. So we have a huge production in small businesses. It's a challenge. Then I'm going to focus on what is perceived as a mantra from the right on and on in that kind of debate, now from the representative of Hofstad Helleland. It is argued that Norwegian innovation skills are scarce, and we get into bad international rankings. I want first of all to put this claim back, because it has no hold in reality. We have a good system to register such ratings: it is the Norwegian indicator report. The last indicator report, for 2012, says something about this. He says: ‘It is a truth with great modifications.’ Norway’s position varies greatly. There are many different types of rankings. We have e.g. Innovation Union Scoreboard, to which the Right often refers, has a 17th place, out of 40 countries. So we have the World Competitiveness Scoreboard: there we take an 8th place, of 59 countries. I can go on to the German indicator report, which has a much more accurate set of indicators, and which is much clearer than the one that Right often uses: we have increased from a 14th place in 1995 to a 7th place in 2010. We look from area to area that the Norwegian innovation force is significantly larger than the one that Right loves to draw. It'll be both wrong and misleading. Again, I refer to the 2012 indicator report – page 30, for those who are particularly interested, where a letter: ‘The analysis of Norwegian innovation capability should certainly be based on a more nuanced basis than our overall position in different scoreboards.’ [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1780	Just one more short post from my side, because I got a very strong need for us to maybe lift our eyes a little at the end. It is not so strange that much of this debate has been about business and business research. We are in a situation of financial crisis around us, and everyone must be concerned that we are getting the most offensive starting point for all economic development. Then I just want to say a few things. First of all, not everything in the development of business is to be solved by research and what we quickly define as research. The Minister of Industry has just presented a big message about many other measures in the field of business that are also incredibly important, an offensive message and are part of our common strategy. Secondly, many people believe that when you talk about business development, there are some subjects and disciplines that we need, that are more important than others, and that social sciences and humanities are not among them. It's completely wrong. One of the things we've seen in recent years is that when you can get very good environments in social sciences and humanities, which can work together with the technological and real subjects, we can get to a multidisciplinary and a science that brings us up to a higher level. Finally, I want to say that it is anyway important that we get more knowledge. We have to equip ourselves in all areas, and we must not believe that we are now sitting with some kind of fascination on what kind of knowledge we need in 10, 20 or 30 years. For example, we have to. look at the democratic preparedness of a society. From the situation in Syria, from the situation in Turkey, from the situation in ourselves as of July 22, we know that we need a preparedness that is much wider than the one that has dominated this discussion, and that means that we need to have deep insight into our own democratic traditions – how to develop a good society, and how to raise our eyes. This means that we must have an approach to everything that concerns research policy, based on the fact that all knowledge is important, that all new knowledge has value – even if it cannot cash into new crowns in the next few years – and that curiosity, to ask new questions, which means that we must reach out for new demands, is itself an incredibly important driving force in the field of research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1795	I have to thank the Council of State for the opportunity to talk about my own discipline, humanities, which I have so far not had much time to do. The Council of State says something sensible: that we must equip ourselves in all areas of knowledge policy. We need a readiness to know within disciplines that we may not know we need. The note on ash spreading, which the majority of the committee is behind, seems to me to illustrate it very well. Five years ago, not many people in Norway realized the need to understand how ash affects a jet engine. We experienced that painfully that we needed to know something about it. Fortunately, we could do something about it. Humanities, and perhaps not least social sciences, should be more actively mobilised to create a better and more efficient society. There are many examples. This concerns energy development, road development and, not least, health, where the Progress Party is probably alone in believing that it should be an objective not only to research health and how to treat more patients, but also to improve health logistics. I think the most important thing is – and then we'll come back to what we've been talking a little bit about earlier today – strengthening the cooperation between academics and business. The disciplines in which you can learn the most about language, about culture and about other societies are those found within the humanities and social sciences. Of the major companies in Norway that are internationally oriented, Telenor has primarily mobilised these disciplines in its work. Here I think it's a lot to pick up. There is a lot to be gained by investing in humanities and social sciences as disciplines. There is also much to be gained by mobilising humanities and social sciences to strengthen the internationalisation of the Norwegian public administration and, in particular, industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1807	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5. Councillor Kristin Halvorsen exceeded 3 kg. propositions. [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1825	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes each to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1834	The Family and Culture Committee has discussed Prop. 120 L for 2012–2013 on amendments to the Kindergarten Act, police record, etc. In the bill, the government proposes changes to the regulations of the Children’s Home Office Act on Police Certificate and Reporting of Child Home Service Data. As the rapporteur and as part of the majority, I will present the comments and position of the Christian People's Party and the government parties in the vote. I'm counting on the minority to take the floor to brief on their views. The Christian People's Party and the government parties support the legislative proposals as they exist in the proposition. The amendments mean that the provisions of the Kinderhagen Act on Police Certificate are consistent with the overall framework of the Police Register Act, that the two laws are harmonised with regard to the extent of criminal penalties to be imposed by police attestations, that there is an absolute requirement for the submission of police attestations to all those employed permanently or temporarily in the Kinderhagen, and that kindergarten owners and municipalities are granted legal access to require police certification also by persons without recruitment who have the opportunity to be in direct contact with the young. Furthermore, the amendments to the law clearly extend the infringements of the criminal law to be noted on police records issued under the Children's Hospital Act, the fact that pending cases relating to sexual abuse against both minors and adults are noted on the police record, and the possible need for new or up-to-date information by children's homeowners is made apparent by the wording of the Children's Home Office Act, which refers to the Police Register Act, Section 43. The Government agrees that the Children’s Hospital Act does not lay down specific rules on police attestations for those who have lived in other countries, in addition to those already provided for by the Police Register Act. This means that no legal requirement for residence is introduced for persons from outside the EEA territory. The Committee also supports the Government's proposal for amendments to Section 7 of the Kindergarten Act on Service Data Reporting. When making the kind of changes we are making today, it is important to consider what offences should be included in a police record in the context of care-related work. There are many crimes in a person's history that can be of a nature that do not necessarily make him less fit to work with children in kindergarten. It may be related to a growing-up environment. This may be due to the fact that young people have belonged to a particular environment. It may also be linked to a period of drug dependence, etc. I am pleased that we are now adopting a law that strengthens the protection of young people, that strengthens the safety of kindergartens, and that strengthens the control of those employed to care for young people in kindergarten. Nevertheless, it is important to make reasonable adjustments in order to ensure that the legislation is sensible. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the Stortinget will also discuss child protection in the next case on today's map, where an important theme is post-preservation and bringing people back to society after a troubled childhood, and where it is about giving young people the opportunity to get up after a difficult start in life. Overall, the majority of the committee believes that the government has found a good balance where the sum is that we strengthen the protection of young people and that we extend the requirements for what should be documented per police certificate to become a child care worker. The majority therefore recommend that the legislative changes in the proposal be adopted and are well-satisfied with the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1855	The case rapporteur had a good review of the matter, but I was a little over the post, considering that it seemed that the minority was almost against this whole case. At least let me make it clear that the Progress Party fully supports the changes in the law that are in place today. It is very important that we now get this law in place to strengthen the protection and control of those who are going to have contact with the children. What the Progress Party has in its comments, is a small clarification, because we have had several cases this period in terms of the Police Register Act, that more certificates should fit into it. We also know that those who come from EEA countries will accept the certificates that have been issued. Nevertheless, we believe it is important that we clarify that this is being done, and that the government has routines that this happens automatically, because it has happened a few times that it has not been done. There is also a concern about those coming from outside the EEA. We know that very many of those who come to Norway and stay, who – after they have gone through the introduction program – work in kindergarten. It's a very nice springboard for some people to start working in kindergarten and gain experience in working life and not least get in the language. It is not what the Progress Party wants to live on, but it is important that we make sure that we also have an assessment of whether this should be a requirement for living for these people, so that we can ensure that they have a police record that keeps water. These are the clarifications the Progress Party wants. Nevertheless, we are very happy that the law comes into place. We have seen that there have been incidents where there have been people who have worked in kindergarten who should not have worked there at all, so in order to ensure the safety of children, it is important that we have this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1866	Parents who give kindergarten responsibility for their children’s large parts of the day must be sure that the child is surrounded by competent, stable and safe adults. Both the Children’s Ombudsman, the Education Directorate, the Barnhage Law Committee, the National Association of Private Barnhage, the Education Association and the Parental Committee of Kindergartens have highlighted the need to ensure the safety of children in kindergarten. In kindergarten, we need employees who can set limits both for themselves and for others. It is then important that the employer is provided with sufficient information about applicants when he/she is employed, so that the employer can carefully assess whether he/she will employ people who have a past in which they have committed acts that are considered incompatible with working in kindergarten. If a person has been imprisoned for up to four years for harming others or has broken the drug law and abused drugs, the Right believes that the employer must have the opportunity to gain knowledge of this before hiring someone in the kindergarten. The right would therefore suggest that the police certificate also provide the employer with information on matters such as body damage, violation of the drug law rule on drugs and prescription management. Persons convicted of gross violence, trafficking in human beings or violence in close relationships should be excluded from work in kindergarten, and the Right proposes that this be incorporated into the law. Until now, no governor has been able to ask for new police statements. The new law on police records opens up this, but only if the conditions for police certificates are still present. This means, therefore, cases where the employer has access to information which gives reason to believe that new information is available of importance. This means that the employer must be aware that the employee has committed new offences in order to ask for a new certificate. In the Right, we believe that there is reason to ask questions about whether this meets the children’s need for safety and security in kindergarten, and there are many key actors who believe that there should be an opportunity to obtain police attestations in the sector. The right-hand side supports this. The safety of children must come first, and we therefore propose that there should be a general possibility of a new background check for information other than that provided on the basis of which the original police certificate was issued. The right is pleased that provisions on child care certificates have been improved in the context of updating the Police Register Act, but we believe that the proposal is not sufficient, that it should be made clearer and more stringent. With this, I take up the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1879	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1882	The main purpose of the amendment of the police record rules is to ensure that children in kindergarten are protected from being placed in a trusting or dependent relationship with persons who may cause them harm and/or adversely affect them. It is also important to have clear rules on police certificates in order to increase the trust of parents and others in the care of children in kindergartens. The development of recent years, with an increasing number of children in kindergarten, requires that there is no doubt that there are only suitable people who associate with our children in kindergarten everyday life. This suggests that the rules on background control, inter alia: police certificates are amended in such a way that persons who have committed an offence against minors and persons who have a harmful influence on children are excluded from working in kindergartens. In the context of the introduction of the new Police Register Act, the Ministry of Justice carried out thorough assessments of the offences which should be recorded on the police record of persons to be employed in work involving contact with children and minors. In the work on the legislative proposal, the Ministry of Knowledge has made a similar assessment with a view to legislating the offences to be noted on police statements to be made before employment in kindergarten. The legislative proposal provides for important harmonisation with the overall framework of the Police Register Act, which the Stortinget has adopted, to enter into force and replace the criminal record law of 1971. Today, the requirement is that police attestations based on the Children’s Hospital Act show whether they are intended, accused or convicted of sexual abuse against children. I believe it is important to change the legal provision so that the employer has a broader basis for assessing the suitability of employment. The proposal under consideration today represents a substantial extension of the number of infringements of the criminal law to be noted on the police record for those seeking employment in kindergarten. Following the proposal, all types of sexual offences shall be noted, regardless of whether the offender is a child or an adult. Any violation of criminal law rules on drug, poaching and violence shall be identified. In addition, it shall be stated not only whether the person concerned is intentional, accused or convicted, but also whether the person has adopted a proposal in the light of such infringements. The proposal provides a much better basis for all kindergarten owners to assess whether a jobseeker is unsuitable for working in kindergarten. There is reason to point out that the obligation to provide police clearance following the proposed action does not apply only to those seeking permanent or temporary employment. In order to protect the children, I have considered it necessary that the obligation should also cover all persons who are regularly in kindergarten, for example. janitor and cleaning staff and that persons with significant influence on the operation of kindergartens should also be included, e.g. the owner or the Executive Director. Some offenders are considered particularly relevant for the purpose of protecting children and young people. This applies in particular to offences related to sexual offences against minors. For this reason, a professional ban in kindergarten is proposed for persons who have committed such acts. The potential for damage is particularly high in this type of crime. It is therefore necessary to give decisive and particularly heavy weight to reasons for protection. Persons who have committed this type of crime should therefore not even be able to be assessed for employment in kindergarten on the basis of the proposal. It was for the hearing bodies to extend the professional ban to several of the other offences to be noted on the police record after the proposal. With this, I would like to stress that the question has been carefully assessed in the legislative proposal. The need for protection and the importance of life that speaks of including as much information as possible on the police record is carefully weighed against privacy considerations, resource considerations and resiliency considerations — and it is inconvenient to include unnecessary information. This is an important assessment, and I would like to stress that the proposal for a ban on work which has been promoted is in substance the same as the Church, Education and Research Committee and the Judicial Committee have given their support through the adoption of the Training Act, the Private School Act and the Police Register Act. Finally, I would like to stress that we must not believe that rules and police statements are in themselves adequate protection for children in kindergarten. The usefulness of these rules must not be overestimated. In the future, it is also essential for children’s safety that the nursery care centre, through its employer’s responsibility, follow up all recruitment processes with thorough interviews and reference acquisitions. It is only a rare time that there are people who have previously been targeted, accused or convicted of serious crimes, who report as applicants for kindergartens – and therefore have a leaflet that makes you know that you are facing a person who can threaten children. In the vast majority of cases, offenders are not, or have been, punished or targeted in such cases. Therefore, be aware!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 7 and 8 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1928	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose giving rise to three lines of reply following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1937	In the kindergarten debate last week we talked about that soon is very long. For young people who have suffered a care failure, it is soon too long. Where care failure is actually taking place, it is as the National Association for Child Welfare said in the context of the hearing that it is particularly important that every child with child protection measures is helped early enough, i.e. that one is late as soon as possible. More can be done to prevent care failure. Cross-ministerial cooperation is now being set up to develop a common knowledge base on prevention efforts to detect and help postpone children aged 0 to 6 years, focusing on how to strengthen the relationship and interaction between children and parents. The prevention work is crucial. The government has a wholehearted commitment to this – both through this proposition, the nursery message, the message of choice in close relations and the public health message. There is a cross-political agreement on the importance of strengthening the interaction between services. A central area for further child protection is the development of better child protection through interaction and cooperation between services such as kindergarten, health centre, school, police etc. The proposal proposes two new principles on children’s right to participation and on connection and quality of relation. It says something more about what is important for the child’s best and could lead to one in several cases being able to take action in the past. The government will launch measures to strengthen the competence of distribution to assess whether children are living in a situation where care needs to be taken over. It also means strengthening the competence of connectivity and the potential of parents to provide the care that children need. This is, in my view, a very important grip. Children have been heard too little in child protection. I am now pleased that we are legislating for the children's right to be heard. In addition, I am pleased that the government is proposing to legislate for children their right to a trustee. This has been a clear desire of children in child protection itself and helps to strengthen both their security and their real ability to participate. Bringing someone you know and trust will lead to children becoming more open and talking about how they feel and what they think. Fosterheim is the most used care measure in child protection, and it is a high priority task for the government to recruit more people. I am pleased that the government and the Council of State have a strong focus on this, and that a systematic approach to recruitment from the Directorate's side. A major effort is being made to recruit multiple foster homes. Last year several new framework agreements were concluded with ideal recruitment actors. We also see a large increase in the use of family councils, and 400 municipalities have now received training in the use of the method, and more than 600 family councils were implemented in 2012. One doesn't have to be bad to get better. Today, we have a good child-restraint with many added workers who do a good and important job every day – with thousands of beautiful foster parents and professionally strong institutions. We see positive developments in terms of deadlines, waiting times and supervision. We have received 850 more child-restraints in municipal child-restraints through the child-restraint lift, and never before have more people been helped. At the same time, we know that for too many years child protection has been a sub-prioritized political task. It is therefore decisive that we continue the promise we have made. Spending money and time on thorough policy processes to develop a good child protection, as we do now, is so incredibly important. Childhood is not just a state where we are waiting to grow up – it has enormous value – and the kids are very vulnerable. That time will never come again. The most important growth is growth, which requires nourishment through care, security, stability and love. We can't adopt love or care in this room, but we can decide that one should help to find the good ones who will give it to the kids who need it and who don't get it from those who put them to the world. For me, politics in general is about working for everyone to live a good life. The foundation is laid in childhood. A good childhood lasts for life – and for generations. Finally, I would like to say that this is a good proposition, which contains important measures and changes in the promise of better child protection, which strengthens the competence of all aspects of child protection and continues to strengthen quality through quality reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1965	The President has been made aware of the fact that, upon contacting the office of Storting, the Committee has requested that there be a change of line after the main figures. It's been examined in the meantime, and that's right. As the Committee has not received a counter-declaration on this subject, the President will propose that there should be a change of line after submissions by the main figures of the individual parties of up to three lines. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President would otherwise draw attention to the fact that, without those lines, the meeting will last until noon. 00.30 a.m. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1974	In such an important matter as this, it is important that we also have occasion and time for debate. Then the meeting will be half-past night. We have seen several times that many children are being taken care of by child protection, who do not get the offer they should have, and who have to move from foster home to foster home and from offer to offer several times, which is very unfortunate and creates a very worrying situation for the children concerned. In fact, this is true of too many children, and in the committee's comments, government parties state that all child protection measures have been selected on the basis of professional justification and according to the needs of each child. Then my question to the representative Awake!: Why do we have the situation that more and more children do not get the offer they need, but have to take unforeseen moves too often?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1985	Both in the setting and in the proposition, I think there are several measures that answer the representative Horne's question. I mean, like the representative, that accidental movements are very unfortunate. That's why you're here. the measure to strengthen the capacity for distribution in the field of child protection, which is of great importance. It's about the right location. It's about giving the best for the individual child. The representative refers to our remarks, which state that action should be taken on the basis of the child’s needs, and that is quite correct. I also mean that's what child protection does today. In addition, I think it is important that we pass through e.g. a preparatory course for foster parents – through several courses – prenatal parents are as good as possible to take on the important and time-consuming task of being foster parents. I spoke late yesterday with a friend of mine in Telemark who went through several courses and said that it was unlikely good. There they become aware of the task they are going to take, and we need to strengthen it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e1994	First, I would like to commend the representative Awake! for a very good article. The right is very happy that the working party and the red-green have gone into very many of our comments on this matter. This promises good for the protection of the future children. It's a lot of everyday life to enjoy and master the school. In particular, for many children and young people with major challenges, it is very important to organise a day-to-day school. The Minister of Knowledge, in Stortinget, has long admitted that this is a shortcoming. There are too many children in institutions who do not go to school, and that is a big problem with the so - called schoolless children's protection. Is the representative of Vågslid satisfied that government parties do not agree to support an action plan to ensure that children under the care of child protection are also entitled to organised training?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2003	I fully agree with the representative of Hofstad Helleland that schooling and education for children in child protection are very important. Therefore, one also states in the proposal that a better cooperation between the Child Protection Service and the School should be developed, that a new communication strategy for the protection of children should be developed, and that better guidance material should be developed. We know that the kids in child protection have special challenges. Therefore, we will also help to ensure that children in child protection receive appropriate training or special education if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2010	I believe that the representative of Vågslid and I agree that child protection has a significant capacity challenge, and we have largely agreed to increase the funding for municipal child protection in recent years. Now we see in the proposition and in the setting we're presenting today, that the municipalities are actually getting a lot more problems in child protection. Education and training related to supervision. It concerns the engagement of trustees. It concerns the follow-up of biological parents. Clarification of the responsibility for young people after taking care of them, etc. So the municipalities get more problems related to the things they already have, while we see that we're in the middle of a huge growth in the number of things. Since I have read the proposition, but have not found it, I ask the representative of Awake!: What are the government parties' answers to the major challenges that child protection is now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2019	It is, as I mentioned in my post, to continue the child-restraint lift. The representative of Hope is quite right that there are still capacity challenges. Through the child-restraint lift and by having more focus on child-restraint in recent years, we see that the number of child-restraint messages is increasing. It also means that there will be several tasks, as the representative says, both for municipal and state child protection. Therefore, it means that the resource promise, which is part of the child protection promise, must continue. That the municipalities get more tasks, I think I'm good, because it's -- maybe with a slightly disparate expression -- in the municipalities people live, and we've actually strengthened municipal child protection pretty strongly in the last few years and got over 850 new positions in municipal child protection. We have an eartag of 108 million. kr for measures of competence. So empowerment I think is crucial for what the representative is asking about, and not least the quality reform that is being announced in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2028	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2032	Finally, the day has come – the day when we will really be allowed to debate a matter of child protection that has come from the government. We have 14 days left of this flooding period, and the Progress Party believes it has taken too long to bring this matter forward. For approx. Three years ago, the representative Stokkan-Grande stood on this pulpit and said we had a child protection in crisis. In repeated debates, the opposition has called for action and action. Yes, child protection has been strengthened in the last budgets; the government should have that praise, but there are few concrete proposals that need to be made to strengthen child protection. There were great expectations when this matter was presented, and on many points the Council of State has fulfilled. A thorough work has been done on good reports, and not least children's protection has been heard and taken on board. However, I have to say that we wish that more concrete proposals had been made, as this is a lot to be assessed and examined in more detail. When it comes to child protection, we talk about children in need of help – help with a safe and stable everyday life that has often been completely absent from the child’s life. That's when the state has to go in and give it security. But are we gonna make it? No, unfortunately, what worries me most about child protection. By Friday we were able to read about children who had been abused in foster homes, and another case in which very many children who are entitled to supervisors do not get it. Many who call us bigtime representatives are not in doubt about the law or want new laws. They just want the rights and the laws we have today to be followed up. This is where I think we have the biggest challenge: to give the children who need it, a better everyday life than the one they had before. Too often we fail. All children in Norway shall be protected against care failure and abuse. In that case, the State must not make any failure to provide care. Too many people are afraid of child protection, and it is very worrying. There are a lot of people out there who work with child protection, who do a huge job – a job that is very demanding to do. But it has to be clearer that child protection has to be there to help. Child protection meets the most vulnerable children and families, and child protection shall meet them with care and empathy and recognise the need for safety and love of these children. The Progress Party is very pleased that the needs and participation of children are so strong in the legislative proposal and that future child protection is based on it. However, one of the main challenges of the reform in 2004 has been the cooperation between State and municipal child protection. All reports show that there's a great deal of weakness here. The Progress Party believes that municipalities have a key role to play in child protection. This is the first line service. It's the municipalities that are the first to see these children. Prevention and early help show that you can avoid taking care of yourself. I especially want to point out that the municipalities that are also betting in health centres and health sisters are using less on child protection. That is why I am also pleased that the government has seen that it is important that health stations are strengthened in the municipalities. Old help is the key. In a short time it is not easy to get into all the important points in this case. However, I would like to comment on a few points in which the Advance Party disagrees with the government. The biological principle will always be strong at the Progress Party. We're worried that someone might consider changing this and think that you can do two things at once. It is possible to ensure the legal certainty of children without compromising the biological principle. In the biological proximity of the child, there is often an up-and-coming father, there are relatives, aunts and uncles, and not least grandparents. Grandparents, who have often been the safety that these children have had all along, often lose contact with their grandchildren when their parents do not stretch. The decline in institutional settings has gone too far. It's good and good with foster homes, but like all of us here in this room, all children are different with different and complex needs. This is why it is important to set aside political motives and to have a diversity of relief measures for those children and young people who need it. The participants are also an important issue for the Progress Party. In order to ensure the legal certainty of children, the Progress Party wishes to bring them before the courts. We are very concerned about the long waiting time we have today, and about whether legal certainty is being maintained. Finally, a little heartache about trustee: I hope it not only becomes a nice word, but that the children who need it get it trustee. I take up the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting, and those that we have with others, and I would like to point out that we support the proposals No. 34, 35 and 38 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2066	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2071	The representative Horne requested action and action in his post, but I note that the majority in this room, with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the government's proposal to legislate that all services and measures under the Child Protection Act should be sound. While it is not new that child protection should provide adequate services, it is important for the majority to ensure that the requirement of sound services is both clarified and understood. The majority are aware that a degree of soundness will be a legal standard whereby the content of the claim will change over time, in line with, inter alia, the following: development of expertise and competences in the field of child protection. It is therefore difficult to understand the logic of the argument why thepromotional party does not want to require prudentialrequirements and to specify that it will be superfluous. My question to the representative Horne will therefore be: how can health requirements for our most vulnerable, namely the children, ever become superfluous?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2078	I thank you for the question. Let it be clear that child protection already today has a law of custody, and that is very important. But that means very little and therefore the Progress Party has not been involved in that particular remark. Several of those who were at the hearing in the committee demanded that the government had gone further in the light of the law on health. Everyone – even the Children’s Ombudsman – wanted a rights-holding of child protection. What we're recording is that the government hasn't gone as far as many of the hearing bodies want in terms of having a rights fixation in the Children's Protection Act. The legal certainty of child protection is very important, so does the representative Simonsen. But we all too often see that legal certainty is not being adequately ensured, and that is why the Progress Party has said that we want to put the county council members down and put them under the courts to ensure the legal certainty of the children in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2087	Last week we dealt with the Children's Act here in the Chamber, where the Progress Party as the only party was not aware that the legislation should be drafted in such a way that as far as possible one operates on the safe side on behalf of the child. At present, only the Progress Party does not support the proposal that the best interests of the child should be based on a new principle of development support. Similarly, the Progress Party believes that adoption should not be used as a child protection measure to a greater extent than at present, despite the fact that very many studies comparing adoption status with foster home status conclude that children who are adopted have a better development than children who are permanently placed in foster homes. Against this background, this is my question to the representative Horne, perhaps a bit pointed out: Is it the best thing for children or parents to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2094	For the Advancement Party, it is important that the legal certainty of children is safeguarded, and that is the rights of children we must always ensure. The best of the child must and must come first. In the matter referred to by the representative from last week, the Progress Party wanted to take care of the children, but we want to have a judgment, and that it should not be used against the individual parent in a life conflict. But let it be clear: the progress party wants to secure the children. Then the biological principle is also very important to the Progress Party, but as I said in my post, it doesn't have to conflict with the child's best. Of course, in the case of children who are victims of violence and abuse, the state should intervene. But nevertheless, we know that it can often be an up-and-coming father, up-and-coming grandparents and relatives also within the biological principle. With regard to opening up more use of adoption, the Progress Party is sceptical as it is a final decision for the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2105	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2108	I want to start my post immediately again to give praise to the Council of State which finally, after many years of waiting, came to Stortinget with a proposition and new child protection law. It was lengthened and although we think it has taken a very long time, today we are happy that we have it for treatment. Although we would have liked to have gone further on some of the proposals that we are still going to make after a few years, we are on the right track in several fields. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has done a good job during the treatment in Stortinget. On the women's day of this year, I received a visit to Julie, a great and resourceful 19-year-old girl. She doesn't live at home. In the last two years, child protection has moved around Julie – not once, not twice, she has moved five times in two years. Moving means changing schools, changing friends and changing carers. Julie has been given a new contact person – or case handler, as it is called – 24 times under the care of child protection. Now she lives in a lovely single home with four other girls and Gunn Marit, who is the one who takes care of her and the other girls. Gunn Marit and the other employees have a guided tour – the same person is there when they lie down in the evening and when they wake up in the morning again. It seems that Julie and the other girls are safe and well, and that's one of the reasons why they like that institution very well and that it's become a home for them – as they say: Here's the adult who cares about us. This is a private child protection institution, and they've received signals from the government that Bufetat should downgrade private child protection measures, such as where Julie now lives, not because they're bad, not because they're expensive, but because they're private, and it doesn't like today's government. Julie has been told that she probably has to move both from her home, from her local environment and from her school when there is a free space at a state institution in the West. Unfortunately, this proposition does not respond well enough to, among other things. the concrete challenges of child protection. The measures are relevant, but there are too many challenges to which one is too passive in its approach. On the right, the new principle of development support for child protection is supported by the Raundalen Committee. If child protection needs help, child protection should be able to take action even when the child’s parents or caregivers do not agree. The thorough evaluation of the administrative reform shows that there are differences in the different regions that mean that children do not receive an equivalent offer across the country. There are still major cooperation problems between state and local authorities, there are challenges related to poor economic governance and control, and unfortunately there has been a clear distortion of institutional intervention towards increased use of foster homes. Both the Health Authority and the National Audit Office have revealed serious failures in the supervision and responsibilities of the municipalities. When we know all of this, it seems obvious to the Right that the government will continue the main lines of today's division of responsibilities between the state and the municipalities. Trade unions and user organisations are also calling for more comprehensive and far-reaching changes. The right will provide municipalities with comprehensive, professional and economic child protection. But then we also assume that municipalities must have the necessary skills, deliver high-quality child protection services, and that services cannot continue to be provided when there are so vulnerable child protection services available to many municipalities today. The children are the most valuable thing we have. Therefore: a great thank you to all foster parents and child protection workers, who make an incredibly good effort for the most vulnerable and vulnerable of us. The right is concerned that we have to close the big holes in the security network, which means that we can't catch up with all the kids who need our help the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2134	The computer system then discovered that there are lines during the debate. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2139	I record that the Right has its firm mantra on the privatisation of child protection institutions. I think it's a little strange, since we know that approx. half of all child protection institutions today are in private hands. What's sad is that the Right wants a massive privatisation of child protection institutions, so that we're left with only private ones. For the Workers' Party, placing children in institutions is a heavy burden of authority, which implies coercion. That is why we believe that it is irresponsible to leave this entirely to private people. I wonder: doesn't it also seem to the Right that coercion is something that the public is actually going to do? If the representative of Hofstad Helleland from the Right does not think so, then it is true that other forms of authority and the use of coercion will also be left to private individuals, for example. in criminal matters and within the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2148	Thank you for the question. It is true that those who have historically built up a welfare offer for the most vulnerable children and young people are private. Then the public came in gradually, and took over a lot of the offer to the group we're talking about now. For the Right, it is absolutely essential that we have good authorisation systems, which are sufficient, and which ensure that we have good enough quality. In the case of public authorities in particular, the strict control regime for private institutions is not currently in place. That's the way it should still be. That is why the Right also wants a quality portal where the various child protection services are listed, and the Right continues to call for better supervision. The fact that so many children do not have supervision today [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2158	The right would like to leave much more of the child protection to the municipalities, and that the municipalities themselves should have full rights over the entire protection of children. Then I wonder if Hofstad Helleland believes that Julie would get the same offer if it were the municipalities that were responsible for the entire child protection field, not state institutions, or private, bought by the state? But really, my question was to be something else. We often hear from the opposition that it takes so long before anything happens. Today, Hofstad Helleland began his speech by saying that we finally got this proposition. My question is: Does the representative of Hofstad Helleland believe that public investigations have been important, for example: The Raundalen Committee, the Child Protection Panel, etc., on the ground?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2169	Yeah, I'm glad it's done a good investigation. In the field of child protection, it has been evident that measures could have been taken before all these evaluations were in place. The red-greens have been in government for eight years. It's quite a long time for a little child who doesn't get the help it needs. For 800 unsupervised children, and for all those in line or in line to have foster families, eight years is a lifetime. That's why the right has called for a more offensive bet. On behalf of the children, it is also our job as opposition party in Stortinget to ensure that child protection work is prioritised by the government. We have been concerned that there have been five government councils in seven years, and that there has been little continuity and offensiveness in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2178	The estimated population base in Oslo is 600 000 inhabitants, and that is why they have the opportunity to ensure adequate care for children in need of specialised institutional services. Does the representative of Hofstad Helleland see that the proposal to give the large municipalities overall responsibility for the protection of children could lead to a lower level of provision for small and medium-sized and indeed some of the larger municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2185	The representative Groetting knows very well how vulnerable a small municipality can be in providing good and robust child protection services. The representative himself has been rapporteur, and knows that you can often be short and that there is too little competence in our small municipalities around. That is why Right wants more robust child protection services. Indeed, there are many more — and larger — environments that will clearly be able to offer better quality services to young people. That's what the right is concerned about. In Trondheim, a pilot scheme was introduced to leave child protection to the municipality of Trondheim. It turned out that they were able to deliver much better services – it was very successful. [[President clubs]] Unfortunately, the red-green have cancelled the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2194	The President will remind you that speaking time is actually a maximum time, not a minimum time. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2199	How we treat the children is absolutely crucial to what society we get. Children who experience safety, care and love are more likely to succeed in society than those who do not. Now that we're dealing with changes in the child protection law and principles for child protection, it's the weakest and those who need the most, we're going to have to keep an eye on it. More than ever, the principle of the best interests of the child is crucial. Most people want the best for their children. For some, it's hard to know what's best, for others, it's hard actually to do what they really know is the best for the children – and unfortunately there are a few who won't do the best for their children. For these families, but of course primarily for the children, a good, robust and present child protection is needed. For these in particular, it is important for a society where basic thinking is based on the principle of the best of the child, and where different bodies take this seriously, cooperate and report on a concern — be it a health centre, a kindergarten or a school. It is essential that child protection comes in early enough and provides the necessary assistance — whether it is to provide support, training and guidance to those parents who need help, which includes the most frequently used measures in the field of child protection, or whether more extensive measures or interventions are involved. It is worrying when children with experience in child protection say that child protection should intervene more often and in the past. On the other hand, we can be satisfied that this is actually being said, that it does not become a hidden truth, and that the government has listened to them with the most knowledge of the problem – in addition to, among other things. expert committees and research reports. As the representative Vågslid said, one does not have to be bad to get better. In the autumn of 2010, the then Child Minister Audun Lysbakken started a thorough review of the entire child protection system to see how the most vulnerable children in society were taken care of, called the Child Protection Lift. This has led to the greatest effort in child protection of 20 years, which means better protection of children through more resources and reorganization. As others have said, about 850 new posts have been created and more than 108 million have been allocated. for measures of competence. The further follow-up to the legislative changes strengthens the position of children. The best interests of the child shall be the overall principle of child protection. Children should be heard and more involved in matters relating to them. The best of the child shall be based on four professional principles, and I am pleased that one of the new ones is the child’s contribution. This means that the child’s opinion should be weighted according to the child’s age and maturity. As we heard from the hearing, it is about asking the good questions, making sure that the child is informed, and that it feels that it is being listened to. Participation does not release adults from responsibility. One of the recordings that the children's protection themselves have recorded is that they want to have their own support that they can choose for themselves. I am pleased with the proposal that children under the care of child protection should now be given their own trust. It's drastic to take a child out of the family, and the starting point is for children to grow up with their biological parents. However, if the child is in a care situation that is not in the best interests of the child, the child protection shall intervene. The principle of the mildest effective intervention is important, but sometimes it's just moving the child out of the family. In order to strengthen the principle of the best interests of the child, the principle of quality of connection and relationship is now introduced. I believe it is important that the biological principle should not go ahead of the child's need for safe and developmental growth conditions. Excessive emphasis on the biological principle may result in children growing up under adverse care conditions if the relationship between the child and the caregivers is weak and the relationship is weak. The principle of quality of connection and relationship must be as relevant after taking care as before taking care. After all, it is very important to maintain the responsibility that society has assumed from the family. We now have a proposal for full foster home coverage in parallel to treatment, and I am pleased that the department and the directorate have given the job of recruiting enough foster homes a high priority. It is important that we work continuously and well to ensure recruitment and to maintain the good foster homes we have, through, among other things. training, follow-up and guidance. Then I will not hide that SV has a desire to attach rights to the Child Protection Act. The essential thing must in any case be that the assistance provided works well and that the law contains provisions imposing on the public responsibility for ensuring that the assistance to children is provided to them. The child protection promise has helped reverse a negative trend that has persisted for many years. I am pleased that today we are dealing with such a good follow-up to this promise, with proposals that help to create even better child protection, with better quality, higher competence and recognition of children's need for security and love. With the changes being made, more children should receive timely help.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2223	Today, all children in foster homes or institutions are entitled to supervisors and several visits within a year. We've seen in the last few years that this isn't going to be fulfilled. Very many municipalities do not comply, and children who have the right to supervise do not. Most recently on the news this weekend, we could hear that too many children don't have supervisors. The representative was in his intervention on a proposal in the matter – this with a trustee. The progress party is very happy that the children's protection is now being heard when it comes to getting a trustee. My question to the representative is: how can the government ensure that this with a trustee not only becomes a fine promise, which very many children are going to look forward to, but a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2232	The representative Horne is within an important theme. There are too many people who do not have supervisors today, although, fortunately, the large majority of children have been appointed supervisors. Unfortunately, someone doesn't have it. There are also those who have supervisors but where supervision is not carried out. It is good that the proposition now proposes changes to help improve this. It is the child-restraint children themselves who have asked for this new trust person who is now being proposed to be appointed. There may be people who already have a connection to the child, one from whom they know well, and who they trust. Then, of course, it has to be carefully monitored that this is being done in a good way. The county councillors have a responsibility to ensure that the child-restraint children receive the assistance they are entitled to and entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2239	SV's largest performance project in this government has been full childcare coverage. This was done by setting it as a clear political goal – establishing it as a political project – for the government, where a deadline is set. As many will remember, former party leader in SV Kristin Halvorsen said in 2005 that this was to be done within two years, and if you are not “white me”, as it was said. Now, six years later, we know very well that there was a truth to certain modifications, but it was at least established significant political prestige and power and considerable resources to achieve the goal of full child care coverage. Now we have come to the point that all children in Norway have a large number of kindergartens. However, the case today shows that all children in Norway do not have a home: those who are in line for a foster home. Isn't it a paradox that SV is unable to establish the corresponding political force behind the goal of securing a home for all children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2248	I was also in my post about this with the need to ensure full foster home coverage. Of course, that's a priority goal for SV. It is not as easy to adopt full foster home coverage as it is to adopt full childcare coverage. Kindergartens are more likely to know the number of children, depending on how many children they actually have. Luckily, there are a few people who need out-of-home care. But it is important that you have a continuous, strong focus on it. This proposal proposes many good measures to increase the recruitment of foster homes. The representative Vågslid was also in his post about the importance of training and follow-up, and then you have to have good routines, so you know what the children need, and you have to give good information to those who are going to be a foster home. And you have to follow them up along the way, so there are fewer who give up the job it is to be a foster home.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2258	SV has been open that you did not fully come ashore with all the wishes you had in the Child Protection Communication. I think it is nice that you are open and honest about the fact that there have been brake blocks in the government that have slowed SV on the way. I think it's been a bit of a shame, because I think the Right and the SV could have agreed on a lot – for example. I am very pleased with the job that SV has done in relation to the legal protection of children in terms of improving the legal security of children in the field of child protection. We hear about a lot of kids who don't have anyone to contact, because they're like, are not supervised when living in foster homes. They have no network, they have no one to help themselves if they are in a situation where they are subjected to care failure by their new foster parents. Why is SV against a low-threshold complaint mechanism that makes children actually have a place to turn for help, if a serious situation arises?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2265	I now expect the representative of Hofstad Helleland to refer to the proposal from, among other things, Right on a complaint body, which is in the procedure as of today. We haven't gone into it to support it now, but we see that there's a good intention behind it. It must be possible for everyone to appeal against the decisions. Now all children are going to have their own dependants, who hopefully can help to provide guidance and help when needed. Everyone also has the right to appeal against the decisions taken, inter alia. Countess. Then, of course, we have to keep up with the fact that children get what they are entitled to, and that they have the opportunity to say from and get help and support if they believe they do not get what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2272	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2275	This is one of the most important laws we deal with in this magnification period. It is for the care of the weakest, those of our little ones who are subjected to care failure or abuse. To help the too many kids who need it, we need quality and robust child protection. A good and thorough job has been done in advance of this amendment. There has been a separate expert selection in action and a child protection panel that has made good recommendations. It is also important that the children's own voice is heard in this matter. There has been a marked increase in the number of cases in the field of child protection in recent years. It is also so that there are far more serious cases of care failure and abuse than most of us can imagine, and there are still large numbers of darkness despite the increase in the number of cases. For many years child protection has been largely the big ugly wolf that takes the kids from helpless parents. Several major and serious issues in recent years have shown a different picture. Fortunately, this has turned around to a great extent, and it seems that people understand the important role of child protection. The digital age has also reached the issue of child protection – fortunately, in many cases, because today, the perpetrators often leave so many traces, both with text messages and images, that it is not possible to exonerate claims that children have a lively imagination. It also makes you more aware of what can actually happen, and it can give you more knowledge about what to look for to detect signs of abuse. It's important for the Center Party and for the other red-green parties to bet on child protection, for a good childhood not only lasts life out, it also lasts for generations. It is also important to remember that the opposite is the case – poor childhood can also be inherited. If we can help a child today, we will give this child security, but maybe we will also help the children and grandchildren of this child. That is why we have the child protection promise, and since 2010, we have had 850 new posts in the child protection system. Child protection must work based on knowledge, and that is why we have also allocated 108 million. for measures of competence. The centre party is involved in the prevention work. We believe that strengthening family protection is important to address some of the long-term need for child protection services. All measures in the field of child protection are important, but it must be an objective that a more preventive person reduces the number of cases. In order to reduce the waiting time for foster homes, it is important that we have more foster homes, but also increased competences in foster homes and their follow-up. Institutions never get away from. They must be as good as possible and have a high level of competence — not least continuity among employees is very important in order to provide good care. It is a modernisation of the Child Protection Act that we are adopting here today, and we are introducing important new principles. The principle of the child's best is the most overarching, and it was also pervasive in the changes we made in the children's law last Thursday. It is also important for us to give care to the children for whom the Child Welfare Service has taken over, to our own trust person who can provide extra security and support and greater opportunities for young people to express what they want. Finally, I must address the four important professional principles on which the best of the child is to be based, two of which are new. Many are now afraid that the biological principle will be overrun by the new principle of access. That's not right, but it's also not possible to get away from the fact that sometimes the home is the most dangerous place to be for a child. In cases where the child’s superior is the perpetrator, these children must be rescued as soon as possible. The fact that the biological principle, along with the mildest effective principle, has almost been the only way to think for those who work with children, may have led to some abuse not being discovered. These two principles shall remain important but not general. For this reason, it is important that more professional principles that are important for the best interests of the child are now promoted. It's like there's kids out there crying for help, but they're just yelling inside. That's why we need principles that enable those who work with kids to discover these calls for help. The best interests of the child must always be at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2306	The best of the child must always be the most important, concluded representative Sprouting to say. Then we see that very many children don't get it help when the state intervenes and takes care of them. Sometimes we also see that they actually get worse. A lot of people are afraid of child protection, and parents refuse to accept help – help that they might badly need. Parents are afraid that if they ask child protection for help, they will be deprived of their children. This is something the Progress Party thinks you have to do something about. The representative has been rapporteur before she became a major representative. She has had a leading position in child protection in a municipality and seen how important it is to bet on municipal child protection. My question to the representative is: What does the Centre Party think is the most important thing to do to prevent care acquisition in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2315	Thank you for an important question. It's not a simple question, because this involves a lot. I was into prevention. I think family protection is important. When it comes to prevention of takeover by care, family protection is one of the most important. Although new principles are now being introduced, the biological principle is not gone – it is equated with the other principles. It is an important principle, together with the principle of helping at the lowest possible level. So I believe that one should still just strengthen child protection, and that one should work against the families in the vast majority of cases. Prevention through family protection is a very important prevention measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2322	Here there were so many principles that you can almost go a little bit mad about what was most important. What made me want to take a line was the representative's line to the right. The Left Party and the Central Party have long had a common story of believing in the local government, believing in delegating authority and believing that those who actually know the problems of the body, or in this case seeing the kids in the eyes, are the best ones to make wise decisions for the future. Why doesn't the Center Party anymore believe that municipal child protection is the best way to have the most power? Why do they no longer think that it is local that you have the most knowledge of the future? Why do you not think that the 19-year-old, whom the Right set out as an example, could have received a better offer if the decisions had been made locally? Why has the Senter Party lost faith in local decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2331	I'm very happy to get that question, because then some things can be clarified here. We have not lost faith in the municipalities at all, and we are very, very concerned that the municipalities should have as strong a child protection service as possible. I also have faith in the small municipalities, because they work together to get a better child protection service than most people have had. But my question to the Right was at the Right's request to leave the entire responsibility to the very largest municipalities, such as Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. It might be the three that would make it in Norway, because all the others are too small. Then also my question was that it's not just the small municipalities, but the medium-sized and actually some of the larger cities that would be struggling with it, and then the small ones, the medium-sized ones, they kind of half-sized and the slightly larger ones would get a worse deal, because the state level would get much worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2338	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2341	On Saturday, I was at Ten Sing-revy in the church. A student was thanked after many years as head of the choir. We talked about how much the choir and youth environment in the church had meant to many of the young people in the valley where we live, and she told me about a boy who had said, "I feel almost safer here in the church room than in my own bedroom." Child protection is facing major challenges. The proposition refers to a growth in the number of children with measures of 77 pst. during the last 15 years. Message No 1: We cannot, as the government does, review child protection without taking into account that this growth actually continues. Message No 2: We cannot review child protection without discussing the root causes of growth. One thing would have been if we could take as a starting point that child protection today has good measures and gives good care to those about 40,000 children today offer child protection, and then discuss how we handle growth on that basis. But we need to discuss the growth of a situation where child protection has fundamental flaws in the offer it also gives to those who are already there. That is at the heart of the challenge of child protection. It's a capacity challenge – yes. But it is also a challenge to prioritize and equip the entire service to see if it responds to the major challenges it faces. My main point of appeal to the government has been presented is therefore: it does not respond to the main challenges facing child protection. There are many good actions that are announced in the document, and the arrests will increase the quality of child protection. I would also like to commend the Council of State for focusing on and strengthening the framework for the participation of children. But the big questions remain unanswered. We all experience hearing and reading stories about child-rescue children moving and moving. There is a lack of statistics in this area and it is serious. We actually don't know if these moves are the rule or the exception in child protection. We do not know about the children for whom we as a society have taken responsibility, experience stability and security. One of the proposals of the Raundalen Committee which are followed up in the document is a new principle underpinning the assessment and adoption of child protection, namely the principle of development-promoting links. The control question before we can decide on it is the following: Is child protection connected? Unless we know what is the status of the movement of children in the care of children, the answer still has to be: we do not know if child protection provides connectivity. The Christian People's Party has therefore put forward proposals for a stability reform in the field of child protection. I'm not going to go into the details of the proposal here, but there's a reform that will go deep into the whole operation of child protection. As can be seen from the setting, it is also on the basis of such a stability reform that the Christian People's Party has joined the Raundalen Committee's recommendation on the link as a new principle. I must say that I am very pleased that a broad majority of the committee ‘explains that the principle of quality of connection and relationship must be as relevant after taking care as before taking care. It implies an obligation to ensure that the child experiences stability, safety and connection after taking care of him or her.’;» Then the Christian People's Party has proposed an action plan for full foster home coverage. Why is it that we can set deadlines for full hospital coverage, for full child care coverage, but not for all children to have a home? In the summary report of the Ministry’s evaluation project, Rambøll writes the following: ‘In a situation of continuous development of activity and costs, with a state intervention apparatus that does not meet the needs, and with difficult cooperation between municipal and state child protection, Rambøll considers that there is a need for a wide-ranging debate on child protection.’ It was three years since this document was notified. An enormous effort has been made to evaluate and review child protection. I have to say that I feel that the car has been delivered to the workshop because the engine is cheating, I have got it back freshly painted, it is filled with washing fluid, it is replaced oil, and it is refilled with brake fluid, but the engine is still cheating. I am pleased that there is agreement on the good legislative changes proposed here. But the major issues facing the child-restraint children and the child-restraint that are facing are unanswered in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2372	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2375	I will address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind in the Inner East. 395 L.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2380	The representative of Øyvind Hope has then taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2385	I am, as the representative of Hope, busy with more stability for the children in child protection. The government's commitment to child protection and child protection has led to 850 new positions in municipal child protection, which we have earmarked for 108 million. In addition, there is a need to improve the effectiveness of measures to improve the protection of children, and thus to improve the quality of action. In addition, the proposal states that we will strengthen the competence of child protection to provide more accurate measures. Proper location could provide better stability. I also believe that they will pass on the new principle to strengthen the possibility of getting in earlier with the right actions. These are concrete proposals and measures in the area of child protection, and I wonder if the representative agrees with me that these concrete measures and proposals have been important and are important in contributing to more stability for children in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2390	I agree that those measures will have an indirect effect in terms of increased stability and better follow-up around foster families, foster homes and in many ways can help prevent mobility. But there's no complete idea of how to go through the whole chain to strengthen stability, in the document presented. I also mention, as I mentioned earlier in the debate with the representative Awake!, that the municipalities are getting a lot of new tasks here without any escalation plan, or that they are alerting something further for the municipal child protection. So there are many questions that stand unanswered, whether foster parents actually get better follow-up after that document. Not least, we need to address the criteria for how child protection actually assesses when considering making new movements, from one foster home to another, for example, and not least the place of institutions in care. So here's a lot of big holes in the document. I'm standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2395	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2398	Finally, we have got a proper case about child protection. I just have to say that the ministry has done a thorough preparatory work, both through expert committees, through the Children's Protection Panel, through many research reports and through involving a lot of user organisations – and also through having five government councils who have worked through this, which does not always mean that this department is the top priority when allocating jobs, just to get it commented on today. Then came the Children's Protection Lift. There's a lot of steps in the right direction, but I don't want to call it a lift. I want to use a little bit different pictures than what the Christian People's Party did. It's not even a really big broomstick, there's something between a nightstick and a slingpy kiss. But it's in the right direction, and it's the children that are in the center. In fact, a lot of important improvements are proposed and the government should be commended for strengthening municipal child protection. But to call it a resource lift and a new organization, I think it's a little too puzzled. There have been many warnings from child protection. We have examples of statesmen who report child protection in four municipalities, because one has committed 150 cases illegally in the last few years. It's a pretty serious violation of the laws and regulations we have. Strengthening children's position and rights is a step in the right direction, but in reality we need some stronger instruments. We need increased child protection skills, and we need a high professional level at all levels if we are to succeed in relation to the children who need us the most. Then I think that improving child protection skills is one of the most important, sailors if there are a lot of good people in the system who do a fantastic job every single day, jobs that most of us might not have done. I have six moments I want to record: Firstly, we want to transfer tasks from the Regional Office of Children, Youth and Family Services to the Municipal Child Welfare Services. It is clear that we need to transfer competence and authority to the municipal child protection services. There are a large number of hearing bodies that believe that municipalities need to have a significantly greater responsibility for child protection. Nevertheless, one does not take a step fully, and that seems to me to be sad. Secondly, we believe that child protection education needs to be strengthened. There are very wide variations between the various child protection education systems, and there are also some of the students who have mentioned that they do not feel well enough prepared for their everyday life. We have made a number of proposals on this in the Chamber, and we are doing it today. Thirdly, there is also a need for other professionals in the field of child protection. We need both lawyers and psychologists into municipal child protection, and it should be facilitated by wage-earning measures. Further training also needs to be strengthened, and a pool of skills should be available to strengthen it. Fourth, professional competence must be restored from the State to the municipalities. We now have a salary level that makes all the nicest people want to look up to jobs in the state and not stand in municipal child protection. We believe that the salary levels here should be coordinated, so that we do not stimuli that competent people want to get away from children and over to the paper field. Our proposal last year to transfer tasks from the Regional Office of Children, Youth and Family Services to the Municipal Child Welfare Service had been an important step in implementing such a transfer of skills. We've been signaled by the local government to the State Children's Protection Service. It is obvious that the highest level of competence should really be in the first line service, because that is where the difficult decisions are to be made. Fifthly, the Left believes that the Child Protection Act should be a law of rights. I noticed that SV also meant this. Then it would have been interesting to hear why the Workers' Party is against, because it had been a good grip for children's rights. The sixth thing I want to mention on my last eleven seconds is that now the government has gone through the additional protocol of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and found out that this can only be implemented. I had hoped that this could also have happened today. Then I will end by addressing the proposals from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2426	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2431	I have a question for the representative Skei Grande in relation to what the representative said in the post about leaving responsibility to the municipalities, and then in practice put Bufetat down. Now we know that the Oslo network says that the population in Oslo of 600,000 is what it needs to be able to provide an adequate response device for young people in need of a specialised institutional service. Such a proposal as the Right and the Left behind could lead to a decline in client access and a destruction of the specialised supply. In the context of the hearing on the matter, we have also not received good proposals for solutions for the small and medium-sized municipalities, such as the representative Groetting. My question is: What kind of solutions does the representative see for the small and medium-sized municipalities in such a model?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2436	We need to work together between the municipalities if we're going to be able to build this up. But I don't think we need half a million people in order to achieve such a kind of cooperation. Here it's about moving a good part of the power that is now in Bufatat, down to the municipalities. The position of the Left is, in particular, the same as that of a number of hearing bodies, and that of a number of professional groups working within the system. The problem today is that we have lost the first line of competence, and we have dropped it for decision-making. We see that a lot of kids are going to be throwing ball in the system and not get the fixed point that it would have been about who sees you in the eyes, is the one who's actually going to decide where you're going to spend your life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2443	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2447	Children who are at risk of care failure are some of the most vulnerable people in society. Child protection children have no large select groups in their backs, they have few lobbyists to work for, and they have difficulty being seen and heard. The most important task for me as the Council of State has always been to do what I can for children and young people to have a safe and well-growth. But the most important job is done by child protection workers, foster parents and others who make a difference for children every day. That's what it's all about: making a difference for children. In recent times, we have undergone major changes in Norwegian culture regarding the view of children and the family. We now know a lot about the consequences of growing up with violence, care failure, sexual abuse, neglect – not having what children need, and especially the first years of life. It's like what was said earlier here: a good childhood lasts a lifetime, and often for generations. But it also often does a bad childhood. Before we looked at children as family property. The family was actually sacred, and for some it is still. You shouldn't care about what was going on inside the house's four walls. Children were to be seen, but they were not to be heard, and in every case they were not seen as seagoing and competent. Children's protection measures have also taken place in the public domain in recent years. Through their votes and the votes of child-restraint workers, the debate on child-restraint has focused on the one-sided focus on child-restraints doing too much and too quickly, on a more sobering debate that the biggest problem is that too few people get help, and that help often does not come in time. That's good, because that makes us in position to do more for children who have been neglected in Norwegian history. The government has now worked a long time based on what we have called the Child Protection Lift, and it's a real boost: half a billion earmarked child protection crowns, 108 million. kr for competence measures. In addition, we have now presented a number of proposals based on knowledge. Through thorough investigation and input from those who are most competent in the field, including the children's seas, we have come up with a number of proposals for change, a little on organisation, but also on legal work and what we are going to do in the future, in particular to follow up what is our intention, that we should come in quickly and give early help to children who need it, and also give better help to families, so that they can function, those who have the potential to care for their own children. That's also a goal for us. Why do you have to listen to the kids? Well, because the children in child protection are the main characters, because it's about respect, it's about security for them, it's about quality, it's about stability, it's about success security of what we're doing, it's about self-esteem, self-esteem for children, insight into their own situation, acceptance for decisions, better cooperation, which in turn leads to better stability and better quality. At all: there are no good reasons not to listen to children. We have to get a lot better at it. The document we are discussing today bears the mark that we have listened to the children. What are the kids want? Among other things, they want a trust person. They want better supervision. They want other concepts of child protection. They will be involved, which we now legalize. They want us to get in faster with good help. And yes, they want better stability. What's important in order to achieve better stability, in addition to helping children, is that we get in faster. The new principles also come into play, including: the new principle of quality of connection and relationship. If we are unable to provide more rapid assistance to children, so that they are not so damaged when we first choose to place them, after having tried for many years – often in the certainty that what we put in action, unfortunately not building up during the change – it is also difficult to offer stability to many of those children. Then they will be quite damaged when they are first placed in a home, which in turn will affect their stay at the foster home or at the institution, for that matter. Early delivery of assistance to these children can also contribute to greater security and stability. We are also committed to better cooperation – across and across – and overall efforts and cooperation between different agencies, which are important in order for children to have a better future. It will be absolutely vital for us to work along those lines also in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2471	The councils have an ardent commitment to children, but I would like to address a topic that has not been affected in the debate here today, and that concerns a group that is often largely forgotten. I would like to make it clear that it should not be at the expense of or affect the legal security of children, but taking care and other measures can be perceived as very dramatic, including for adults. The Raundalen Committee and the NOU are also concerned with the importance of caring for the parents who lose their children. The goal is for most of these children to be taken out of their homes to return. Then it is important that parents get help to become better parents, and that they are able to get their children back home. The government says it should consider different models to follow up their parents better. My question to the Council of State is: Why will the Council not support the proposal of the Progress Party to legislate for a parent who loses custody of his children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2482	First, we want to look at how we can facilitate the care of these parents. I fully agree, in principle, with the representative Horne: these parents are in a crisis. Obviously, they need better follow-up than they do today. For me, getting closer cooperation between child protection and family protection and going through and looking at what models we can take as a basis for good parental support is important. At the same time, it is also important that we should be realistic about some of these parents, because some of the children have become ballistics between their own biological family and a foster home or an institution — back and forth — and one has not managed to give the child the stability that, among other things, is. Christian People's Party and we're busy. It's also part of that work and that support, and I'll probably challenge the Progress Party to take it more into account in the work they're going to do against us in the government, in terms of child protection: make sure to also support those children who need a permanent location.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2489	Governments had a good deal to say and pointed out many important issues related to how the children are concerned, the system experiences around them. The councils talked about the importance of getting help and getting it on time. She talked about what the children want, and thought about it. She also pointed out the most important job, namely the ones that are closest to the children. This is also the starting point for Right thinking: Just those who are closest to the children and who may have followed them the longest, should also continue working with them in a more municipal context – that is, with a greater responsibility in the municipalities. My question to the Council of State is: Isn't that really a good input? It rhymes at least with her post. The question is, what will the Council of State do to strengthen the municipalities in that work? Would she consider a greater transfer of responsibility to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2500	Well, in what we have presented now, we also clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities in areas where they have not taken responsibility today, which they should actually take. These include: on follow-up of children by location. It is also a matter of making supervision much better than it is today — among other things. Do it more professionally — to avoid some of the terrible episodes we've seen in the media lately. It's also about a number of other areas that I don't have time to go into in the short time I have. What we can't see is that the municipalities are able to take full responsibility for child protection. It will give a worse offer to these children. Driving child protection requires specialist competence. It is not comparable to old age care or school. This is a completely different job. Therefore, we are concerned that the State should be able to offer an equivalent offer to all children, regardless of where they live. We fear that more responsibility for some municipalities will go at the expense of assistance to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2507	In Chapter 4 of the Proposition, the Council of State states that we have had a growth in the number of children in the protection of children of 77 pst. in the last 15 years. If we add 77 pst. to the current number of 38 025, that means that in 15 years we have 67 000 children under child protection measures, if that growth continues. I'd like to hear the Council's reflections on it, because I don't find any reflections on it in the proposition. What does that mean for child protection in the future? What does it take for us to enable child protection to address these challenges? I quoted Rambøll, who wrote exactly this in his report to the Department, where they summarized the entire organization and how this looks, and then they pointed out that we need a fundamental debate on child protection. How do the Councils of State view the formidable challenge we are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2518	Let me start by saying that I'm very happy that our culture has changed, as I described it in my post. Now we care about children who suffer – even when they suffer in the family. We now know that suffering in the family is worse than suffering on the outside of the family, to say it like this. It hurts the children more when those who were supposed to be caregivers are not, and someone is even directly dangerous to the children. The most important thing we can do in the future is to let it continue: we need to care more, we need to report when we are concerned, and we need to ensure that child protection is rusted – locally and centrally – to work for the best of these children. But then we have to cooperate, and we have to get in as early as possible. My dream is that we strengthen the follow-up of pregnant women and follow them for the first few years of life — especially those who are at risk or who are particularly vulnerable. Then I think we can do a lot to prevent the damage from developing, and that many of these children get a ruined life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2525	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2530	Regrettably, violence and assault are part of many children's everyday lives and growing up. Children who are subjected to violence and abuse will be able to be affected by these experiences for the rest of their lives. Childhood itself has a self-esteem. It is our responsibility to make sure that children grow up in good and safe surroundings. We have research that shows that as many as 8 pst. by all children, gross violence by one or both parents. Violence can be physical or mental. It could be about sexual abuse, care failure, children witnessing domestic violence, or being subjected to the use of physical and psychologically humiliating punishment in the assignment. The home and the family are the arena where most children have it safely. At the same time, home is the place where violence against children takes place in the hidden and for a long time, without it being discovered. Infants and young children are most vulnerable. The possibility of safe development, learning and good health for children is severely affected. In order to meet the children’s right to safe growth, we need to continue to strengthen efforts against vulnerable children in particular. During the year, there will be ten children's homes established around the country. Children’s homes are about creating safe people – safe, small people. Children’s homes shall provide medical examinations and hearings of children who are subjected to violence, assault or other criminal offences. During September the children’s houses in Bodø and Sandefjord shall be in place. This will lead to more children getting help, and hopefully waiting time for child court hearings is falling. The establishment of family violence coordinators in 100 pst. The position of all police districts and family violence teams in the major cities has been an important part of strengthening the efforts of the police. The police have a potential for improvement. In the future, therefore, there is a need to strengthen the knowledge, competence, cooperation and efforts of violence against children. It is particularly important that the police cooperate more closely with the Child Welfare Service, and it is important that the police in their statistics introduce more categories, in order to obtain the best possible picture of the various forms of violence against children. Violence against children is to be recorded in a separate category of police statistics. Today, we strengthen the participation of children in all matters relating to them by introducing a general provision of the Child Protection Act that underlines the child’s right to participation. Such an overall provision for participation will contribute to raising awareness and real awareness of children’s participation. ‘Best’ is the overall principle of the Child Protection Act and the fundamental principle. It is also important that the child’s opinion is given some weight, depending on the child’s age and maturity. It is important to strengthen the protection of children against violence and abuse and to ensure that care is taken in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2555	I was in my post and in the line shift with the Council of State inside the growth of child protection, and what it tells us about the challenges we're facing. For simple mathematics suggests that if growth continues, then there are 67,000 kids who are under child protection measures in 2028, and not 38 000, as today. I think we have to be so honest to say that even though in the Christian People's Party every year we propose increased funding for child protection in our alternative state budget, there are no parties that in their alternative state budget have a policy and a budget proposal that can capture the enormous growth we are now seeing. It is also well known to those who have followed, that throughout this period I and the Christian People's Party have been a strong driver to talk about capacity, and to talk about full coverage in child protection. There's no doubt that the evolution we're seeing now, and the growth we've seen over these years, tells us that we're going to talk about capacity, and that we should talk about full coverage, but the challenges child protection is also a lot more than a capacity issue. One of the answers that come up very quickly is a broader approach, where we not only discuss child protection but see vulnerable children and young people's challenges in the context, and see the services they meet in the context. This is not least the case with family protection, which is again mentioned as a potential partner to get new tasks from child protection, although we know that there are intake stops in some of the offices around the country because they are fed on resources. This applies not least to mental health protection, in the case of Nav, in the case of health stations, etc. There are many services that capture vulnerable children and young people, and we need to see these offers in context. It is also apparent from the proposition that challenges are linked to insecure family relationships, drug addiction and psychiatry. There is a major part of the challenges facing child protection. Then policy must also capture the fact that this is where the challenges are, that this is where we can put preventive action. We need a lot more of that overall moment. We need more government councils and more committees to discuss that challenge together and take a fundamental debate on how we put child protection together as a service in that context, because I still lack a good response to that. And to finish where I started: we also need more youth leaders in the Church and in communities around that capture vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2566	This is well of the most important things we are dealing with. The representative, Hope, is raising a debate on the growth of the number of cases. I guess we know a little bit about whether it's a real growth, or whether there's a growth in things that are actually being picked up and reported. I am so old that I have grown up for another time, and there was a lot of both violence and abuse against children, but it was never reported; it was never recorded. So the numbers probably can't be interpreted exactly as the representative says, that it's just an increase all the way. Then he's busy with safe families. I am, too, but I warn you a little bit about talking about this as if there is a problem that only concerns families that have other types of problems and need help from the auxiliaries. It's not. This is a serious problem that is also taking place in the best families — and perhaps even more hidden than otherwise. But it's like these children too are in contact with kindergarten, with school and with health sisters, etc., so it's very important what's going on there. It's also important that children's homes work all over the country, because here are parents who have the money to pay lawyers for even using them against their own children. Finally, I sincerely believe that all parties are concerned about this, but I am very amazed at the particular Right Party and the Advance Party, who believe that the move of money from state to municipal child protection should solve this problem, and that massive privatisation should contribute to something positive. The studies and reports that form the basis for what is now being done show that there is a need for both, they show that there is a need for child protection that is also specialised, and that, at least, money cannot be removed from it until, in that case, something alternative has been built up in the municipalities. It is not responsible to do so. So the investigations that form the basis for this, now clearly say that we need both. Then, of course, there is also a need for an increase in municipal child protection in the future. I mean that, and I see that, but there is also a need to stress the serious responsibility of Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian politicians from all parties that sit around the local government to strengthen child protection. Because it has to be done, just like in the other social policy areas. These problems go like black, evil threads through generations of evil lives, and then you have to find a solution to the causes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2577	The debate is coming to an end, and there are some issues I want to comment on. Firstly, it was said earlier by the representative of Hofstad Helleland and Right that there is little offensive on the part of the government in the area of child protection. I will strongly reject that. I would like to underline what the Council of State also said in its statement, that it has been a significant child-restraint lift. It is also, as the representative Karin Andersen says, often what is the difference between the Right Party and the Government Party in the Child Protection Priorities, exactly where one moves the money. We have strengthened municipal child protection as well as strengthening state child protection. Then it is said a little too many times that the red-green government has a private allergy. Now it's probably the most pollen allergy that's found in the bulk of the day, but I want to tell you that in the state child protection we actually use as much as up to 50 pst. private actors in relation to the institutional measures. We use the offers that I think are best for the kids. Then it will also be suggested in between that there are very many small and little robust municipalities in this country. There is also an image that needs to be nuanced. In 2008, we had 83 municipalities in Norway, which entered into inter-municipal cooperation. In 2012 we have 183. There is a sharp increase in the use of intermunicipal cooperation, and 60 pst. the municipalities that do not have it have been asked, and they say they have plans for the next few years. So it's a very positive development when it comes to getting better and more robust child protection services. So to the representative Hope: he mentions that it is important to look at this with a holistic look. I believe that both the message and the proposition take on the wholehearted, both when it relates to the prevention page and when it relates to the action page. The representative refers to mental health protection and Nav. I can’t expect the opposition to do well for all the good actions in the message, so I do it myself. Among other things, there are measures to develop clear guidelines for cooperation between child protection and mental health protection for children and young people – what I think is very important to be told – and a common approach between child protection and the Employment and Welfare Act. So here's a lot of good action, which I really think is important, that will help develop better child protection. But it should also be said that today the government – and we – does, is in no way a completion of child protection. There are still major challenges, and there are some of the government parties and the Christian People's Party that have similar opinions about what to do. There is no doubt that in the years to come a child-restraint should continue, and I don't think the answer is to bring about large-scale privatisation and commercialisation, as most of the challenges are often from the citizens' side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2588	I want to thank for the cooperation in such an important area, and for the commitment of this committee – that’s great. The debate on child protection has been given a new dimension compared to what it was like in the past – it is very important – and I hope we take responsibility for this continuing. We need to have a discussion about how we in Norway can ensure children better. At the same time, we must have a critical searchlight on what child protection does, because child protection also has a lot of power. It requires ethical reflection, and it requires humility in the encounter with the families. It is very important to me that we continue to work for the very youngest group – already from the pregnancy of, as I mentioned in a line exchange instead. The 0–6-year-olds group is very important – as has already been said from pregnancy – and then we have to work in a cross-border and interdisciplinary manner. We have to work completely, and we have to work long-term. The fact that we have such a well-developed health station service that we have in Norway is a very important potential. Many rates are gradually applied to family homes, which collect different services across borders. We now have almost all children in kindergarten in Norway. There is also a very good starting point for discovering and helping more children before they have gone so far that their future is ruined. We're going to develop a common knowledge base for all those who are going to work with the smallest children. It's going to be an important area for us in the future. I'm glad that most people here in this room support the introduction of a new principle, and also see that the combination of the biological principle and the mildest effective intervention principle has seemed unfortunate to some kids. That doesn't mean we scrape the biological principle – of course not. We need to take care of the families, and we need respect for privacy. But there is a need to look at the quality of connection and relationship between children and their caregivers, because it is not that biological parents are the best for all children. Not all biological parents are the best for their children, unfortunately. I wish it were like that. Of course, this principle should also work after placement. That means that we have a great responsibility for how we facilitate child protection. There we have a way to go. We need to recruit more foster homes, not least from relatives/family and networks that the child already has. It doesn't always work, but I want us to do more of that, among other things. through the use of family councils, which have proved to be very successful, and which are an empowerment thinking – a bottom-up strategy. We must also look at the rotational arrangements in the institutions and provide for a differentiated offer. We don't depend on having even more private solutions to have a diversity in child protection. It is also possible to facilitate diversity by taking a great deal of money from the public. The ideals are also important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2603	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2606	I'm not going to pull this debate out, but in the light of Mr. Wagslid's contributions, I just want to make it clear that I've read everything that says about cross-sectoral cooperation in the proposition. But I want to make it clear that I believe that in order to mobilise a society that can meet and prevent the growth that it seems to be possible for us to be ahead of us in the years ahead, we need cooperation between services, where we ask ourselves how we can jointly prevent young people and families from having the kind of problems that we are talking about here, and come under the care of child protection. It's a slightly different approach than the cooperation the proposition refers to – just so it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2611	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2625	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2634	This evening, the Grand Council adopts a completely new law that will provide full protection for homosexuals, lesbians, biphiles and trans-persons in all areas of society. Today this applies only to working life and housing. This is in many ways a new brand day, not just for the red-green government, but for all gays, lesbians, biphiles and trans-persons, by putting in place a full protection against discrimination. In the spring of 2008, we adopted common marriage law, so today we are adopting full protection against discrimination. The law will provide protection against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation in all areas of society, both public and private, health and care services, outpatients, organisations, etc. We know that discrimination and harassment of homosexuals, lesbians and biphilis are still a major problem in many areas of society. Unfortunately, it is documented in several studies that homosexuals, including in Norway in 2013, are exposed to violence and threats in public space. It's not just happening in Eastern Europe. The law also proposes that gender identity and gender expression should become a separate basis for discrimination. An explicit protection of discrimination will not only make today’s legal text clearer and more informative, but will also give a signal of equivalency for trans-persons. The working party considers this to be important, not least in order to counteract negative and prejudiced attitudes towards trans-persons. These are particularly vulnerable and exposed to violence, harassment and discrimination that reduces the quality of life and their ability to participate in society. The Committee has experienced strong reactions from Harry Benjamin Resource Centre to the use of the concept of transpersons. Their patient group has undergone gender-confirming treatment, and they do not want to go under the collective term trans-persons. The background for this is that many in their group don't define themselves as transperson. We have great respect for these points of view, but at the same time I would like to stress that some of the intention to include gender identity and gender expression in the law is to help change society's attitudes and counteract negative and prejudiced attitudes. The term of office of the Discrimination Law Committee was the exercise of a common law. The government parties believe that it is essential not that the protection of discrimination be incorporated into a law but that the protection of discrimination is effectively strengthened. It does so in this proposal. Government parties believe that a separate law on gender equality provides the best framework for work on gender equality. Similarly, we believe that our own laws will provide the best framework for gender equality in terms of ethnicity, religion and disability. In a common discriminatory law, the individual grounds for discrimination could not be highlighted in the same way as in the specific laws. The Equality Act applies to both women and men, but when the law was passed, the legislator acknowledged that women in many areas of society are more discriminated against than men. This is made visible, inter alia: in the provision of the law’s purpose that the law ‘aims in particular at improving the position of women’. It is still the case that in many cases women are more discriminated against than men. This shows, for example: statistics on matters of equality and discrimination by the Ombudsman. The government's proposal on pregnancy protection has met with criticism. The Government proposes that a clarification be included in the prohibition of discrimination which states that discrimination on grounds of pregnancy and maternity leave or adoption is to be regarded as sex discrimination. I would like to stress strongly that the legislative changes that this entails in the current equality law are continuing with the existing law on the protection of discrimination in respect of pregnancy, childbirth and parental leave. The text of the legislation is brought more into line with current practice, which means that both mother and father throughout the parental leave have a particularly strong protection and, in many cases, an absolute protection. A number of actors, including: The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has been concerned that this adjustment in practice will weaken the protection of pregnant women. Nor is the intention of the legislator the opposite. Legitimate practices will ensure continued strong protection of pregnancy. Through the changes in the law, we give a strong protection to the entire period of parental leave, and not as today, only the weeks that are earmarked for mother and father. This is a brand day. Tomorrow, the Duma in Russia will adopt restrictions on the rights of homosexuals, in stark contrast to what we are adopting today in the Norwegian Grand Duchy, where we are now banning all forms of discrimination against homosexuals, lesbians, biphiles and trans-persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2657	The Progress Party is against all forms of discrimination based on race, religion and sex. Let's be clear. Then we haven't been the party that has supported so many of these laws, but we believe that there's a code that says clearly that if you get discriminated against, there's a rule of law against it. With regard to the law that the government now imposes, the Progress Party believes that there is no need for more laws. It basically says the government itself in its position. Not least, the Discrimination Law Committee also says that. The government locks the definition of the basis for discrimination by not using the aggregate category of ‘similar essential relationships of a person’ as a basis for discrimination and does not take into account the dynamics of discrimination. This too supports the Progress Party. It is also supported by the Discrimination Law Committee. The Progress Party also considers it unfortunate to specifically promote women in the legislative work that lies there, as the basis for discrimination should be gender. Special treatment, or positive discrimination, quotaing, is also considered by the Progress Party to be discrimination. That is why we believe that it stigmatises and that it is discrimination in itself. The government itself points out in the proposition that the proposal is continuing the current rules. It should therefore be an objective to coordinate and simplify the legislation rather than to create their own and more laws. Then the Progress Party – which will certainly also be the Christian People's Party – will come up with its own proposal in view of the fact that freedom of belief is not included in the legal text, although it is obvious that it should be respected. What has been important for the Progress Party in this matter – there have been many good comments that we support – is that we have a protection against discrimination. But the Progress Party will not support the bill because we believe it is unnecessary to have a new law. We also think that there should have been one law – that you collected everything in one law, instead of having so many laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2674	Perhaps then the representative would like to include the proposals included in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2677	Yes, I'm addressing the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2682	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2685	The aims of the Discrimination Act are equivalency, equal opportunities and rights, equal availability and organisation where it is needed — in short, equality in all that that term may mean. Good and clear legislation is, of course, primarily in terms of what the law is supposed to protect, but not least as a signal of what our society represents. The fact that we have clear legislation tells us about a society based on values that are about the fact that discrimination in any context and prejudice – as it pleases us – are ghosts that can lie hidden for a long time and that can suddenly become apparent when given situations occur. Not least these attitudes relate to ethnicity or religion. It is of great and self-esteem that a comprehensive political environment in Norway has such a clear view of this. Building a tolerant society is not done with the laws alone, but is also about the debates that take place in public space – the conversations in the workplace, in the family, in school, in short, all communities that make up our society. The proposed legislative changes are, as the Right sees it, essentially moving in the right direction. The right, therefore, supports the intentions and the clean-up that have been done, even if we had initially wanted a different main action on this legislation. Of course, we support the progress that is now being made in terms of discrimination based on orientation, and we are very pleased that this is now coming into place. But we also notice that the organisations involved, just as they would have seen a common general, general law. No discrimination shall be tolerated with the eyes of the Right. One discrimination basis is not more important than the other. The fact that some grounds, such as discrimination on grounds of sex, religion or ethnicity, are more widespread and more visible, should not mean that other grounds for discrimination are worse or should have a lower level of protection – not to say no protection, which is unfortunately the case in some contexts. What is a basis for discrimination could vary and, as a legislator, it is difficult to predict all the contexts in which this protection is really necessary. We need general, general legislation to protect against discrimination. From this point of view, the Right would have wanted a different approach to the statutory audit, and with the support of the Discrimination Committee's investigation and many of the hearing bodies that applied there, the Right believes it would be right to draw up a single law which would also provide space with a general ban on discrimination. In this context, we note that the government itself in the proposition points out that one common law would provide legal technical improvements, better protection against complex discrimination and – not least – a clearer signal effect. The argument against a collective law is that it would give vague signals about what is to be perceived, for example. to the employers of the country. The position of the right is clear: what is covered must be discrimination in general. I think those who discriminate know when it happens. Our trust in the employers is as well-known. We don't think any work is served by discrimination of any kind. Nor do we believe that there will be major problems if the courts have to deal with an open definition and, through case-law, give the content of what it should be. This has been a discussion for many years, and in the past, the Right has also proposed a law with a universal approach. As in the past, we are also promoting proposals in this crossroads. We see developments going our way, but we're a little surprised that the government doesn't follow up the same way. As politicians, we often meet press groups who want to pay particular attention to their issues and angles. Perhaps just in the context of discrimination, it is important to include those who do not have a vote and who do not deal with politicians, and to ensure that their place is secured in this context as well. My stomach feeling is unfortunately not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2708	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, who gave a good account of the views of the government parties. I also want to link some comments to the matter. Equality is a fundamental value and shall apply to all, irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, level of function, etc. We have a good protection against discrimination in Norway. Law on gender equality – or the Gender Equality Act – was passed 35 years ago, and since then the Discrimination Act has been extended and improved. Legal protection against discrimination currently includes not only gender but also ethnicity and disability. I am delighted that we are now dealing with the legislative proposal that provides gay, lesbian, biphile and transpersonnel – LHBT people – protection against discrimination in all areas of society, and not as today that it concerns only employment and housing. In addition to prohibiting discrimination, the legislative proposal also provides for public authorities, social organisations, educational institutions and employers to have an obligation to work actively to promote equality and to prevent harassment and discrimination – which is very important. If the discrimination and harassment to which LHBT persons are subjected are to be dealt with, it does not make it clear that discrimination is prohibited. Schools, sports teams and employers must then take responsibility for combating stereotypes and prejudices and prevent harassment. The aim of the law is to promote equality. Norwegian law ensures formal equality in many areas, but effective enforcement and enforcement is needed. It is therefore important to strengthen legal rights, including attitudes, in order to ensure a non-discriminatory society. There has been a clear expectation of a more comprehensive and reinforced protection of discrimination in Norwegian legislation. Many have thought that we should have a common law covering all forms of discrimination and all areas of society. When it is not proposed, it is because it is feared that the protection of women from discrimination could be weakened by the repeal of the Equality Act. SV believes that the objective of a more comprehensive and enhanced protection of discrimination has been achieved through the proposal, as the laws have been harmonised and more coherent. It is important that the protection of women against discrimination remains strong. Most people agree that women in many areas are more discriminated against than men. Good lawmaking is by no means enough in itself, and attitudes and organisation are also necessary. Quotation has been, and is, one known measure in this way – something of which the Progress Party is fundamentally opposed. The most common form of quotaing takes place by favouring the underrepresented when candidates are equally qualified — and this has definitely contributed to correcting some societal imbalances. Being a principal opponent of any kind of quota builds up under the fact that sex, ethnicity, etc. in itself in many, it is considered a qualification. I can mention here measures that have been used to increase the recruitment of people with a migrant background to work. Evidence of positive results has been obtained by calling at least one person with a migrant background for interview provided that the applicant is qualified for the job. The biggest problem is that they are not called for an interview. When they get the opportunity to show their qualifications through an interview, many of them get a job. It's a positive form of quota. There are alarming people who experience sexual harassment – something we have a legal ban on in the Equality Act. Employers and the management of educational institutions and organisations are required to prevent sexual harassment. Although I had primarily seen that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman was to enforce the prohibition of sexual harassment in line with the other prohibitions in the Equality Act, I am pleased that the government is now asking to investigate the establishment of a guidance service for persons who are subjected to sexual harassment. The important thing is that they are met by an auxiliaries with information about rights and opportunities. The law to ensure equality and non-discrimination is, as has been said, good and is now even better with the protection of discrimination for LHBT individuals. But it is a problem that, in most cases, discrimination is completely free of charge. The protection of discrimination is enforced by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department, but neither the Ombudsman nor the Ombudsman has the possibility of giving up even if it is established that discrimination has occurred. If you are going to get an uproar, you have to take the case to the court. In practice, those who can and can afford to do so on their own account are reserved. One step along the way is to ask the government to investigate the role of enforcement and lowthreshold agencies and alternative ways of establishing a lowthreshold offer for uplifting in discrimination cases. The adoption of a law that prohibits discrimination against homosexuals and transpersons is a milestone in ensuring human rights for all – and at least we have reason to be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2731	We will have to reach a new law on discrimination. It is a law that many have been waiting for, which means an important strengthening of the protection of discrimination. In general, the Equality Act, the Discrimination Act on ethnicity and the Discrimination and Availability Act are maintained. However, they are promoted as new laws because the text has been amended and they are constructed in the same way as the others. Equally and more accessible laws mean a reinforced protection of discrimination, and we in the Central Party are very pleased about that. The new law on discrimination is based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. Many people experience a difficult everyday life because of their sexuality and sexual identity. We in the Center Party believe that we owe them a proper protection and through it an easier everyday life. Those who now receive a reinforced protection seem to be satisfied with the law. In the time we have worked on this matter, I have talked to many who are covered by this law. It has given me new knowledge and insight into their challenges that I'm also going to take along. In the past, the Labour Environment Act and the Housing Act prohibited discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation in employment and housing. But now the protection of discrimination is extended to all areas of society except privacy. I would like to make it clear that although the law does not apply to privacy, it is not the case that we accept discrimination in private space – on the contrary. The majority of the hearing bodies wanted to incorporate all the laws of discrimination into one law. This is not desirable because, among other things, had to repeal the Equality Act. It could have resulted in at least one less experience — strict equality protection, and that is not desirable. The Equality Act shall continue to apply also in family and private matters, but in those spheres it shall not be enforced in future by representatives, names or courts. In private, we talk a lot more about a long-term change of attitude, and there we are on a good path in society – but far from being targeted. I want to mention the paper issue as an important tool in this way. In the past, fathers have actually been discriminated against and almost have not been given the opportunity to participate in the parental leave. Nor has it been directly desirable for many employers to have fathers disappear for weeks and months to be at home with their children. The paper commission has given fathers an important right in this field, and we see that it works. Today it has become natural that fathers are at home with their kids a few weeks when the kids are young. My hope and that of the Center Party is that it helps to create a change of attitude that gives more equality in the families – for the benefit of the young, for father and for mother. The center part is very satisfied with the way this is now done, by having four similar laws that are built on the same template. These laws are important, because even though we live in one of the richest countries in the world, and one of the world's best countries to live in, there is a difference between us – poverty and wealth – and some are excluded from important areas of society. We can't have it that way. In the Center Party and the Red-Green Government, we are very concerned that everyone should be given equal opportunities in life. Therefore, we need to strengthen the position of vulnerable individuals in society. It is important to influence attitudes, and not least to raise awareness of discrimination practices and barriers. We have a goal of accessibility and organisation so that everyone can live as much as possible a free life where they can get around on their own and participate in social and work life. I am therefore pleased that the entire committee joined us on a note that will strengthen the rights of a group that has challenges especially in relation to education and work. It's the blind and the feeble. The centre party is involved in this group and wants to give them the opportunity to participate in school and work in a better way than today. This can be done by providing universal design for all ICT systems that are currently an important part of the general activities of Norwegian schools and which are also part of all public enterprises in the world of work. This is how these people can participate in school and work life in line with everyone else in society. Finally, I would like to refer to our head of state in Eastfold, the first candidate of the Eastfold Senterparti's list of magnificences and the county chairman of Eastfold, Per Inge Bjerknes. He's blind, but he has all these jobs as well as some more. He shows us that this is true. We have to give the blind and the weak, and all the other groups, the same opportunity to succeed. Then they will be able to use their abilities and contribute to society – to their own satisfaction, especially, but also for all of us. And I'm absolutely sure it's also socio-economically profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2773	It is, as the rapporteur says, a brand day when we are adopting today a new law prohibiting discrimination because of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. Tomorrow there's another brand day when we mark that it's exactly 100 years since Norwegian women got equal voting rights with men. In this context, I would like to mention that next year we will have an anniversary, because we are celebrating the 200th anniversary of our Constitution. The Eidsvollsmen created a constitution that in 1814 was considered to be one of the most democratic of its kind. I do not exaggerate either when I say that the Eidsvollsmen did a very important job for the country and were wise men in their work. However, when 99 years passed before we received a general vote in Norway – and it is a cross of thought, for every 17 May we celebrate the good work of these wise Eidsvollsmen for countries and people – it is not at all because the Eidsvollsmen were stupid, but they were children of their time. It just calls for a little thoughtfulness, and it calls for a little humility. Because we too, here we stand 99 years after the introduction of general voting rights and almost 200 years after the adoption of the Constitution, are children of our time. Do we see the whole big and real picture? And what judgment will afterwards fall upon our doing in that way? It is precisely the reflection and the reflection that is the starting point for the Christian People's Party to want one whole law against discrimination, and we want a collection category into the law. I refer to comments and suggestions in this way. When we discuss discrimination, first of all, we need to reflect a little bit on how we use the term. We use it quite uncritically about many aspects of today's political debate, but we should reflect on the fact that any generation before us has been judged by its posterity for not having understood what the fight against discrimination has been for different groups. I would also like to mention that there have been significant issues and concerns to the Committee during the work on the legislation relating to the protection against discrimination in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and leave, on which the rapporteur was concerned. The Christian People's Party has therefore promoted, together with others in the vote, a proposal that the law be evaluated after two years of operation, in order to ensure that the protection of discrimination is not impaired in that area. We are pleased that the government commits not to alter the legal status of access by religious communities to legal discrimination under the law. Nevertheless, the government is proposing to amend the provisions on access to factual discrimination for religious and life-view societies, or rather to remove the existing provisions, and access to substantive discrimination is to be governed by the general rule on legal discrimination. It makes me stumble – precisely in the light of the questions we are discussing today – because freedom of faith is part of the human rights and the values we fight for when we want to fight against discrimination against any group or any human being that may be exposed to it. When one ends up trying to balance the considerations of taking freedom of faith out of the law, so that one has to read the preprocessor of the law in order to understand that freedom of faith is a fundamental right on which this law is based, then it becomes an unbalanced law. It's a little wise to deal with it, and it weakens the basis of freedom of worship in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2787	It was a moment in the previous speaker's speech that I thought that perhaps there was a small confession that we would now go further in the work on discrimination by going in for, among other things. common marriage law. It didn't come, and I guess I didn't really expect it either. But when we are going to discuss discrimination, we need to look in particular at what formal obstacles there are in order to be seen as equivalent in our society. In the case of a common marriage law, there is a decision I was in for as a big-time representative. It's one of the greatest moments I've had in this room, and the reason why that's just that you lifted one of the last formal obstacles to being considered an equivalent human being. I remember that at the gallery here, people who had been sailing had experienced that their love was forbidden, that it was shameful, with the signals it gave to the growing genus about the way to look at people with a different sexual orientation. I am pleased that our government is going a step further and with this now presents a law that prohibits discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. The interesting thing is that after the bill was presented, many have reacted with surprise that gay, lesbian and biphilis do not already have a protection against discrimination in all areas of society. You could say this: Norwegian culture is changing, and it's changing quite quickly, not least because we're changing the law, and that's good. Today, the protection against discrimination is based on sexual orientation only in the labour market and in the housing market, as has been explained. But we know that there is an equal need for protection in other areas, for example. public and private services, education, health and care services, expatriation and membership of organisations. Discrimination and harassment of homosexuals, lesbians and biphiles are unfortunately common in many areas of society, and it is therefore time to extend protection against this type of discrimination. We propose to legislate gender identity and gender expression as a separate basis for discrimination. Someone has asked what this is really about. Those people know very well what this is all about. Not least, we know that trans-persons in Norway are very exposed to violence and very vulnerable to discrimination, and the tolerance towards people who care for the sex categories, who behave untraditionally, as some would call themselves. «femi», and which is often discriminated against in their everyday lives, also restricts the opportunities for young children to develop and to choose what kind of life they want. Unfortunately, this is a very widespread part of Norwegian culture. An important job for a government and a big deal is to send all the signals they can to people in Norway – especially to the growing family – that they are free to define their lives and how they want to live. Freedom of choice is important to us. We are also proposing a new equality law, a new law on discrimination on ethnicity and a new law on discrimination and accessibility. In the hearing, some hearing bodies were opposed to bringing today’s anti-discrimination laws into one law, and the resistance was particularly linked to concerns that the repeal of the equality law could weaken protection against discrimination on grounds of sex. We have therefore chosen to continue today's system with our own laws for the different grounds of discrimination, but we are harmonizing the laws because we want simplification. We are therefore proposing new laws with equal structures and concepts and simpler languages. The new laws mainly maintain the rules of the Equality Act, the Discrimination Act and the Discrimination and Availability Act. I have noticed some reactions to the proposal for clarification in the Gender Equality Act that discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy or maternity leave or adoption is regarded as gender discrimination, and we stress what the case-rapporteur said on that issue. There's no weakening; on the contrary, you can view it as a strengthening of what we've presented, and it's in line with today's practice. I also want to say that we are going to put emphasis on the work against sexual harassment in the future. We also come up with a gender equality message where this topic will be affected, but I am glad that the committee also wants us to work for a low-threshold offer, a guidance offer for those who are exposed to sexual harassment; it is unfortunately a widespread phenomenon both in school and in many Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2807	Both the government and the Committee on Discrimination say that several new laws are unnecessary. The Government points out in the bill that the proposal is continuing the rules in force and that, therefore, it should be an objective to coordinate and simplify the law rather than to make several new laws. My simple question to the Council of State is: What is the reason why the government does not choose to follow the proposal of the Committee on Discrimination to bring it all together in one law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2812	I justified this in my speech, and the reason was the resistance that came from parts of the hearing bodies, and that it is possible to achieve a simplified and good system even by maintaining special laws, but by harmonising as far as possible. And we've stressed that; we've taken into account those who were particularly concerned that we should not weaken the equality law – which they feared would be the result – and at the same time take into account all those who want a simplified system. We believe that we have managed to reconcile positive parts of the feedback from the various hearing bodies to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2817	My question is lengthening the previous one. I realized at the Council of State that she had listened to hearings; i.e. to those who have a voice, those who have powerful organisations behind them, who can assert themselves. But it is not the case today, as the representative, Mr Groetting, said in his speech, that everyone has protection in Norway. That means that there are people there, who don't have an organization, who don't have anyone to run their case, but that we know exists. Should not a law of discrimination be put in a context that makes it important to listen to them? Now, when the Council of State has chosen to discriminate against them — what is her message to them, and how does she think to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2822	I'm assuming that the representative Thommess is now aiming for this by creating an aggregate category. We have assessed that, and the reason why we are not landed on it is that it will lead to a unclear legal situation. It will be difficult to enforce, it will be difficult for employers as well, and for those who may be accused of discriminating, to know when they do, and what is expected of them. Nor do we want more legal disputes; and we also believe it is important that the Stortinge says who should have the protection of the law, that it should not be more dynamic up to, for example. the courts or tribunals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2827	In the proposal for a new law on discrimination on ethnicity, the following is stated in Section 9: ‘Treatment on grounds of ethnicity, religion or outlook on life is prohibited. Harassment means acts, omissions or statements which act or are intended to act as offensive, frightening, hostile, degrading or humiliating.» In a song lyrics from one of Norway's most famous black metal groups, I read the following excerpts: «Raise their swords to battle, proud men Let the massacre begin today Hogg the head of every Christian And rape their women and children Every Christian cross you find you shall turn around Every building that bears the name of God shall burn Every grave of a Christian we shall shine» Does the Council of State consider that the quoted extract falls under the prohibition of Article 9 of the new Code of Discrimination on ethnicity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2854	I will not stand here and interpret a lyrics and whether it falls under one of the laws that we are now proposing. It would be unprofessional, so if the representative wants such an assessment, it would have to take the form of a written question, so that we can do it properly, but otherwise it is the enforcement apparatus that has to assess what falls under the different grounds of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2859	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2862	There's a red thread going back in time from today to the Storting's decision to decriminalise homosexuality through partnership law and marriage law. None of the breaches of the rights of LHBT persons in Norway have been uncontroversial. When the government of Bratteli proposed in 1972 the removal of Section 213 of the Penal Code, the ban on male homosexuality, the Christian People's Party not only voted against, but demanded that lesbians should also be included in the penal code. In 1993, Council of State Grete Berget promoted proposals for partnership law. It was adopted by hardly a majority. Three years later, fortunately, a proposal from the Christian People's Party Kjell Magne Bondevik and Solvency Sollie to repeal the law fell. As the first government ever, the red-green government included gay rights in the collaborative platform. Since 2005, LHBT people have been able to celebrate many victories. Today's law decisions are among them. When the marriage law was passed in 2008, I went to the gallery with Kim Friele. We were among those who broke out in spontaneous applause. It was a fantastic experience – a concrete expression that the Stortinge rated us equivalent to the same right to family as everyone else. The changes in attitude have not come about by themselves. Kim Friele has told me that she met with a lot of insensibility when she met big business representatives in the 1960s and 1970s. In connection with the voting anniversary, VG named her on Saturday as Norway’s sixth most important woman – and interestingly: the readers rated her no. 3rd@item: inlistbox The newspaper's political editor, Hanne Skartveit, spoke of Friele as follows: ‘Mature and straight, a woman of first importance, a bearer of values, in particular this one fundamental: all human beings are equally worthy.’ [[...]] [[...]] The marriage law, the right to be assessed by adoption, Norway's first action plan for better living conditions and the increased penalty for hate crime, to mention some of the government's actions, is essentially about this: that all people are equally worth it. Kim Friele's efforts cannot be overestimated, but she has not been alone. The most important reason we have come a long way in Norway is that ordinary people have been themselves. In the family, at work where they live. Earlier today I met LLH's Bård Nylund and Skeiv Jugenddoms Line Halvorsrud. If anyone is in doubt about the significance of today's decision, I encourage you to talk to them. Of course, it is important to be able to meet the world, in all areas of society, without any risk of legal discrimination. Tomorrow, the Duma in Russia is likely to adopt a law that prohibits all neutral and positive mention of homophiles. It is a great and sad cross-thinking that national Parliaments in two neighbouring countries — at one day’s intervals — make decisions that are so different. It underlines that security and freedom for all are not a matter of course in Europe in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2886	That being the case, it is no. 9 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2900	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes each to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no replication. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2909	The Judicial Committee has dealt with Proposition 101 L for 2012–2013 on the Law on Arbitration. In the recommendation, the Committee notes that it is important for a country to have a good regulatory framework for the right to land change, which will give landowners a systematic regulatory approach. It could therefore be anti-conflict and solution-oriented and would reduce the lengthy and cost-effective processes of such cases before the General Courts. The 1979 Land Change Act has needed a significant revision, and the government's proposal for a new law will be a good tool for the right to land change in a modern age. After a change in legislation a few years ago, land change can also be carried out in cities and urban areas and not only in traditional agricultural areas. It is also emphasised in the new law that many self-proclaiming parties are involved in land change issues, so that a legal and process system that is easily accessible to them is important. Furthermore, the Committee notes in its recommendation that the basic principles of land change be passed on from the previous law, that the main purpose is to provide land change with a total net benefit to landowners, and that the process should not result in costs or disadvantages exceeding the benefits of any property or right of use. The Committee has taken note of the need to update the Law on Land Change in relation to other major legislative audits, including the Law on Disputes, the Law on Planning and Building and the Law on Law on Law on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on In this case, it is proposed that the Land Change Courts should be merged with the Lawyers' Rights and that the Lawyers' Rights should be strengthened with the professional competence of the land change. This will add to the rights of the team members the competences that can also be used in addition to the traditional soil change cases. The Committee is behind this. Furthermore, in dealing with appeals against a decision in the right to change the law of the land, the law of the law of the law of the land shall be set up differently, as far as the anchors or anchors are concerned. In some cases, there shall be a soil change layer. In other cases, it is up to the first-layer to decide that land change competence shall be withdrawn. The First Lawyer may also, in some cases, decide that both land change judges and a team judge shall be together in court. In some cases, co-judges may be used in court, while in other contexts such participation has not been envisaged. A minority – members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right – took note of the fact that several parent organisations in the consultation round have shown considerable scepticism for the proposal to empower the land change rights to form a common ownership. These members largely share this scepticism. Same as agricultural real estate ownership is not advised in other contexts. Therefore, these members will request that this possibility be exercised to a limited extent. At the hearing of the Committee, a number of views were expressed on the fact that the government has proposed a significant increase in the procedural fee for the appeal of land change cases in the Law of Lawyers. Today, the parties pay five times the legal fee, while the bill introduces a fee of 24 times the legal fee without providing sufficient justification, in the understanding of the minority. Several hearing bodies, at the hearing of the Committee, stated that this could limit the appeals of some parties due to the costs involved. During the Committee's proceedings, the Committee sent a written question to the Government on this subject and received a relatively long response. In this context, there was also a call from the Court of Justice with a proposal for a legal paragraph which deviated somewhat from the government’s proposal. This is why the minority has chosen to follow the draft legislative paragraph of the Court of Justice in this area. Furthermore, the Committee points to the long-term recruitment problems in the area of the right to change and asks for a significant focus to be placed on this. I therefore refer to the proposal that arises from the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2935	Then the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2938	Let me start by thanking the case spokesperson for a good cooperation. It is a major and important act we have to take a decision on today. I record that the new law on land change has been a long-standing matter. It has been a long and comprehensive process of drafting the bill. Let me start by showing that the legislative proposal has received a good reception, both in the hearing and in the discussion in the committee. Many hearing authorities say that they are very satisfied with the results, and that an audit for a simpler judicial system was now important. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is essentially some of the points. The only issue on which there is disagreement is the amount of appeal fee for treatment in the law of the team, as the case-leader was concerned. In addition, there are also small shades in the view of the proposal to give the right to landslides the competence to form joint ownership. The new Earth Shift Elva is a good tool in the field of justice and the design of property. In many ways, the right to change has gradually shifted from being an agricultural court to becoming a general court for property issues. Today, there are issues for both the city and the village. This will be further reinforced in new laws that have the tools needed to create a clean and good property structure, even in urban areas. Earth change is a core task of the right to land change. No other court or administrative body is competent to do so. The legislative proposal contains a number of amendments. This includes: clarifies the rights of the parties to a land change issue. There will also be changes in the relationship between re-shipping and de-shipment following the Servito Act and the transformation and resolution after the Land Change Act. There are also proposals to change the means of land change to give them a more general design, unlike the current rules, which are largely based on a review of different types of cases. The proposal also enhances the competence of the right to land change. We now have a much clearer understanding of the role distribution between municipalities and the right to change. In the case of disagreements in the Committee on the amount of the appeal fee in the Law of Lawyers, there is no good argument in the majority's view that the fee in the case of appeals to the Lawyers' Court should depart from the fee in other cases by the Lawyers' Court. I refer to what I said earlier that the right to change the land gradually goes from being an agricultural court to becoming a general court for ownership issues. So the plurality follows the ministry and the government, as opposed to the minority that follows the court administration. The Labour Party sees no reason to discriminate against appeals concerning land change and other similar types of cases in the Law of Lawyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2959	There is one – literally and in several ways – big thing we have to deal with here today. The proposition is over 500 pages! And I would like to thank the case rapporteur for managing the matter through the Committee in a neat and good way. The case also describes some positive elements in Norwegian social development by increasing the number of properties. There are several self-owners and self-owners in Norwegian society, and in the Right's view, it is definitely a good thing that this way you get ownership of your surroundings. It also in itself invites to take more responsibility for its surroundings, and that is good. The aim of the law is to facilitate the efficient and rational use of the respective properties — a venerable and necessary purpose in ensuring that the social use and value added are as consistent as possible with the private utility. It is also a joyous feature that the new law increasingly facilitates its use in urban areas. 80 pst. the population of the country lives in so-called urban areas, and then, of course, in the same way as in the districts, there is a need for a law regulating property in a sensible and good way. For the Right, there are in particular three elements I want to draw up: One is that the proposition now provides for the removal of the educational monopoly to the right to land change, which is currently at UMB. So now you remove the monopoly, but don't lower the requirement for the professional requirements to be met. That's good. It will facilitate recruitment into this field, and it is necessary. We've understood that, we've seen that, and we've been thoroughly explained. The second element we want to point out as positive is the new appeal mechanism, because it's the team-men's rights that take over as appeals. This leads to a good and – I would say – necessary inclusion and fullness in the Norwegian legal system by including the land-change rights in this way to a greater extent than we have seen in the past. The third and last element I want to record, is on the creation of the same. As stated in the law, the right to change the land can create a common property. It also described the rapporteur-general. From the Right-hand side, there's a reason to take along and give a signal from our side that there's a concern about the same thing as ownership, even though we don't ignore the fact that it can have positive effects in any context. We point to the frameworks that the law lays down for the establishment of joint ventures, first of all § 3-8, that there must be specific reasons before creating a joint venture – it is important to base, we believe – and then § 3-5, which is a subsidiary paragraph to the preceding section 3-8. So there's two security valves in the legal system before you go to the step of creating a common denominator, which is a form of ownership that in other contexts is out of the question. With the two safety valves, the Right has not made an alternative proposal, but is in favour of the text of the law as it exists. It is also clear from the setting that the Right, together with the Advancement Party, has a minority proposal where we are based on the information provided by the Court of Justice on the case-handling fee, thus supporting the views of the Court of Justice. Finally, the Right attaches great importance to the rapid entry into force of this Act and the rapid entry into force of the associated administrative systems, so that the new and good law can also come into force and work as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e2985	In the opinion of the Center Party, it is now high time that we got an improved law on land change. I am pleased with that proposal from the department which is on the table. Norway is in many ways a unique country with a property structure that is adapted in many places at a different time and with many small properties. Today's land change law can be said to be obsolete in several areas, and the need for a significant revision and improved regulation adapted to modern times was necessary. There is a good professional basis for the Ministry's proposal for amendments, and there is enough of the reasons why there is much agreement on the changes across the lines of the lot in this case. Although this is an improvement in the law, I would like to point out that the basic principles of land change are passed on from the former law, and that the main purpose is to continue to be land change to provide a total net benefit to landowners. The process shall not result in costs or disadvantages greater than the benefits of any property or right of use. With regard to the changes that are now being made, I am pleased that land change can now also be carried out in urban and urban areas, and not only in traditional agricultural areas. The Centre Party also supports the proposal to empower the rights of landslides to form a bond between properties. This is particularly important in cities and urban areas, where there may be situations in which legal frameworks should be able to establish ownership structures that adequately clarify the rights and use of common land and infrastructure. In recent years, the centre has addressed the challenges of recruiting job vacancies as land change judges through several major issues. This has also been mentioned in previous Committee budget positions and there has been an increase in the salaries of landmines during this government. We in the Center Party will continue to work for better pay terms for the Land Change Judgments to close the gap to the other judgeship. The good recruitment of qualified personnel for the rights of land change is important, and in this way it is important that it is now opened up for more educational institutions to provide land change vocational training. Finally, I would like to join in the proposal to join with the rights of the team members in order to strengthen the rights of the team members with the professional competence of the shift. This will add to the rights of the team members the competences that can also be used in addition to the traditional soil change cases. It is only now that the new law can enter into force as soon as possible and that the administrative adaptations and implementation of ICT systems take place as soon as possible. In order for us to succeed in this, the necessary appropriations must be in place, which this government is ready to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3004	I'm happy to hear such a cohesive big thing, and that a cohesive big thing says that this is an important law and a law with great social significance. The main purpose of the revision of the law on land change is to create a more modern law for the operation of the law on land change. The legislative proposal involves a better legal structure and a clearer distinction between instruments and procedural rules. The legislative proposal also provides for a better use of the special expertise of the law on land change. Legal certainty is strengthened by a simpler and clearer appeal mechanism. The Land Change Act establishes the land change rights and authorizes their work. The main activity of the right to land change is to improve difficult and non-profitable operating conditions, to clarify boundaries between properties and to obtain unclear rights. The right to land change also provides some practical follow-up in the field of land-handling and land-handling. The general courts may, in the same way as the right to change the land, settle the legal situation relating to real estate. However, they may not establish new and more appropriate property or forms of cooperation between owners and rightholders, as may be the case with the right to land change. The new law will mainly pass on the means by which the rights of land change can be exercised today. Soil rights shall continue to be able to switch to parcels, establish, move and abolish rights, form cooperation teams and lay down articles of association, etc. The legal instruments will facilitate more appropriate ownership and use conditions both in agricultural areas and in more urban areas. The law facilitates the development of construction sites by distributing planned value-added between landowners. Moreover, under the new law, disputes between the parties will not be necessary in order to raise a case. It is enough that the parties believe that their properties are difficult to exploit in a decent way, or that they believe the boundaries are unclear and will have help to clarify them. The legislative proposal will build on the fact that the right to change the land will try to obtain amicable solutions. In the case of parties who are prosecuting themselves in court, the obligation to provide guidance is important. The legislative proposal leads to a better structure of the rules on discretion. The law implies a more comprehensible use of the concept of discretion. The law also creates greater cleanliness because there are fewer actors in matters of judgement. The special expertise of the law on land change is better exploited and the rules on treatment are simplified. The main reform is the changes to the appeal mechanism. Today's system of two appeals, the law of the team and the law of the land change, poses a risk of misappropriation, and thus risks legal loss because the anchor cannot be taken during treatment. After the bill, there will be only one appeal - the law of the law. The competences of the Earthquake Supreme Court are transferred to the Law of Lawyers through the introduction of a new jurisdiction — the Landchange Layer Judge. The geothermallayer shall be involved in the treatment of all appeals for which land change competence is necessary. Strengthening the law of the team with shunting judges may also have a positive effect on other neighbouring types of cases. The law allows the land changer to participate in other property matters if there is capacity to do so. The rules on the costs of the case and the fee are mainly passed on. I have noticed that the Committee has differed in its views on the proposal for amendments to the appeal fee. I take note that the majority of the committee concludes on the government's proposals. The appeal fee to the Lawyers' Court will be the same with the amendments to the law in all the forms of decision that the right to change the land may take. Recruitment to land change judgment positions is a challenge. There are not many qualified applicants for the posts advertised. Some people have already done something to improve this, for example: through improved pay conditions and the abolition of the educational monopoly for land change judges who have had the Agricultural Higher Education College, now the University of Environment and Life Sciences. Several educational institutions will be in the early stages of relevant training, and I think this will improve recruitment in the short term. Practitioners of the Sami reindeer may now be party to proceedings for the right to land change in relation to relations between the reindeer and other rightholders. The State's obligation to consult has been fulfilled in drawing up the bill. The proposals relating to Sámi interests have been accepted by Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for dealing with this proposition in a proper and proper way. It's been a lot of work. It was a massive proposition that the committee got, and I'm impressed by how the case rapporteur presented the matter in a neat and straightforward way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3027	No more people have asked for the word on case 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3042	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no replication. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3051	It is the criminal service that is responsible for the execution in Norway, and we have a well-developed criminal service in our country. Criminal services provide police custody facilities and acquittals for convicted offenders. The crime scene is still changing. Therefore, it is also natural that the need for shelters varies. It is important for people's sense of justice that convicted zones punish the sentence quickly after a judgment has been given. It is also important for the convicted person to be promptly punished, so that he gets settled and gets on with his life. When the red-green government took over after the Bondevik II government, the payroll queue was around 3000. Since 2006, nearly 890 shelters have been established. After the government has increased police resources, the need for custody has increased. The pressure on criminal services is currently high, with a high level of coating and heavy labour pressure on employees. The recently submitted crime services capacity plan provides a good picture of the future need for settlements in our country – both types of settlements and where there is a greater need in the country. This is a good tool in the planning of new housing capacity. The government has already launched a concept selection investigation on the need for settlements in the counties of Buskerud, Vestfold, Telemark, East and West Agder. The proposals we are discussing today mainly concern the fact that the Progress Party and, in part, the Right will ensure that foreigners in Norwegian prisons are discriminated against from Norwegians. It is proposed, inter alia: that non-residents should be deprived of their daily allowances and that they should be subject to lower standards in prisons than in the Nordic countries. The Labour Party disagrees. Such discrimination is contrary both to international obligations and to our human vision. There is no real reason to discriminate against foreigners by offering them poorer terms of compensation than the Nordics. Day payments are a benefit that is provided to all prisoners with an activity obligation and is intended to cover personal consumables. If it is the case that the Progress Party believes that the prison should hold prisons with consumables – as they write in the notes – because the foreigners will not then need the daily allowance, why does the Advance Party consider that the Norwegians should keep the daily allowance? And why do the Advance Party and the Right want foreigners to zone in prison with a lower standard than the North? Does the Advancement Party and the Right believe that if the reconciliation conditions get worse, will the foreigners not commit criminal acts? With the arguments of the right hand side at this point, must the same apply to the North? Earlier in that period, the Justice Committee was on a committee mission in Romania. There we visited, among others. a prison. Most of us reacted strongly to the conditions there. There were very many as the zone on the same cell, and they lay nestled together in bunk beds on three floors. In one of the cells, we counted up against 20 prisoners. There was only one toilet without a door on the split per cell. The possibility of personal hygiene was minimal. The skyscrapers were small netting cages where the prisoners were closest to the exhibition. Prisoners themselves had to partially cover the cost of food, etc. Many will probably characterize this prison as deterrent. But then why was the prison staggered, as we say in the North Moravia? Wasn't that deterrent enough? There are many prisons that have even worse standards than the prison we visited in Romania. They are also staggering, and the country in which these prisons are located has much more crime than what we have in Norway. In several of these prisons, there is also a lot of violence, and there is a very high relapse into new crime after absolution. This is not the case in Norway. The Labour Party certainly believes that reducing standards in our prisons is not the way to reduce crime — either among foreigners or the Nordics. We believe that there are completely different measures that will bring down crime. That is why we do not support the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3081	It was this capacity plan, then – I have to say that we would like to see it come to Stortinget so that we could have treated it. Today it is so that very many criminals are transferred from closed atoning to open atoning, from open atoning to home-soning. There's a shift with the criminals from one type of atonement to another. It's not good – not least to others out there who see that there are actually no consequences when you get a heavy sentence and are not put in for a closed pardon, as one should. There has been a discussion — and the Council of State has recently had a major contribution in various newspapers — about both home care and accommodation with a link. There I have to say that we in the Progress Party are strongly responding to the fact that it is now opening up to care in the home. We have now had a separate case on this in the Committee, but it cannot be said enough that the entire prison capacity plan must be seen in the context. We need to look at closed spaces, open spaces, home reconciliation, foreign criminals in our own prisons, envoys to our own country and so on – all of this has to be seen in the context. That's what we miss. We miss that opportunity. Then I also know that the Council of State and the Advocate General were within this with the rate of relapse. It's also used as an argument that it's very good to be able to zone at home. It's just that if you think about the rate of relapse, you also have to look at the criminals you're referring to. Today, most of those who have been able to benefit from this probationary period have been first-time criminals, prisoners for penitentiaries, prisoners who have served as judges for up to four months of unconditional imprisonment — they have been given that kind of compensation. It goes without saying that for them there is a lower relapse rate than for hard-boiled criminals who are in prison. That's why I don't think that the argument is good enough to use, that we're going to have even more and a completely different type of criminals into home reconciliation. And then we've also seen that a lot of people have escaped too early from the settlement, not just after three-quarters of the settlement. Actually, there's someone who's been out after half a time. All of this is due to a lack of sufficient prison capacity. I'm not going to go into the content of the compensation, even though it's also been a topic of quality, use of temporary workers, use of unskilled workers, etc. When the Justice Committee was in Germany on committee, we were all told how they solved some of the challenges in Frankfurt when it came to airport maintenance. One of the proposals that we are making today is to have more opportunities for care in the vicinity of borders. It is linked to proposal No. 3 from the Progress Party. Some of the positive things about it would be to avoid networking and avoid transport, which is currently available when you do not have the possibility of such maintenance at the border. So, the rapporteur's posts and this with daily allowances for foreign prisoners. There are two different countries we're talking about. It is not possible to compare Norwegian criminals with foreign criminals in terms of the daily allowance. This has to do with the fact that a foreign criminal does not have a daily allowance and does not have that access, which we know is NOK 56 or whatever the current sum is. It's like a regular day's wage for normal work. That's going to be a difference. It'll be a trick when you first get to prison. In that case, it may be better, if in case you are taken for drug trafficking or what it may be, to sit in Norwegian prison than to be sent back to the prisons in Romania to which the case-rapporteur referred. We think it is absolutely OK that we rather make sure that you get what you need, whether it's a toothbrush, shaving equipment or whatever it should be, delivered as needed. It's a paradox that we can't get more people sent out. I believe that the will of the Council of State is so absolute. But there's a bureaucracy here. It is a system in Norway that has not done well enough for this. The progress party will buy space. We will have the possibility to build new prison sites – because it would be a win-win situation. There's a lot we can do. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals that will be made together with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3109	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3112	There is no doubt that the pressure in the Norwegian criminal justice system is increasing, both for those who are in prison for restitution and on the custody side. It made a pretty strong impression on an overall judicial committee that some time ago visited the police chief in Hedmark and heard that they had custody prisoners as far away as in Finnmark. One can imagine the social costs involved — in addition to the heavy proceedings that follow. We need to look forward. We have to start from what are today's challenges, and then we have to look forward to it. The growing proportion of non-residents in Norwegian prisons is obviously a challenge we need to work with more. I have mentioned the situation with respect to the goods. That's another challenge that needs to be worked on more. Not least, we need to step up the work on compensation transfers, so that we get more capacity, less pressure and more coherence between the efforts of the police, as the courts do and to the point of atoning. For this reason, the Right-wing Party will join forces with the Advance Party and promote three proposals, as indicated in the vote. Proposal No. 1 to have a capacity plan for policy treatment here in Stortinget. It's taken up many times on the right, and it's been rejected every time. We believe that getting a political approach to a capacity plan that addresses the whole range of criminal justice challenges would strengthen the road further, as we then gain greater ownership of the actions and strategies we choose. Instead, it is foreseen that the capacity plan will become an internal, ministerial and bureaucratic document, without political anchoring here in Stortinget. It's right-hand disappointed because, as I said, the opposite would have been a strength. Proposal No. 2 a review and overview of economic and social benefits, within the framework of our international commitments, of course. But then we can't ignore the fact that there may be elements in the financial arrangements for those prisoners who might be, to put it that way, a little lessening conditions for those prisoners who might come from other countries. We cannot ignore the fact that there are any such effects here, and we need to get an overview of this so that we can take a position on it at a political level and evaluate, discuss and debate it and vote on elements that need to be changed. The third proposal is to intensify the work on compensation transfers. Several agreements have been concluded. That's good. It's positive. It's necessary. But we believe that more could have been done and should have been done by the government. As is stated in the proposal, in some cases it could also be relevant to buy places in the home country of the court. This will reduce the possibility of networking in Norwegian prisons. It will reduce the possibility of spreading crime further, based on the networks in the Norwegian prisons. So all in all, this is an important proposal for a representative. We are behind three of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3127	The question of prison places is important. It is important that the person in custody or sentenced to acquittal is actually put in prison. The Christian People's Party therefore shares the opposition's impatience in bringing down the number of cows and getting more places of atonement. Today's bursting capacity puts the employees under great pressure and helps to lower the quality of the parking lots. Prisons shall provide the prisoners with close and good follow-up during settlement. Schooling and training are important in preventing relapses into a criminal career and in facilitating the return of prisoners to society. It is important for all those who are to be returned to Norwegian society. In the case of those who are not to be returned to Norwegian society, the Christian People's Party is concerned that there are more reconciliation agreements in place, so that foreign criminals are more able to zone in their countries of origin. Otherwise, of course, it should be such that foreign criminals leaving the country after settlement do not need follow-up in prison adapted to those to be returned to the Norwegian community. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposals. 1–3, from the Right and Advance Party today. As regards proposal No: 1, we believe that it is important to have a political treatment in the Storting of the Crime Prevention Capacity Plan. The capacity plan of criminal services with a unit structure for prisons and voluntary care offices, which came in January of this year, is such a comprehensive plan proposing how the capacity of criminal services should be put together to meet future capacity needs. It proposes how to remove the pay queue and prevent new queues, as well as to facilitate the implementation of criminal sanctions following the intentions of the Criminal Service Communication. As the minority in the Committee writes in its comments, this capacity plan will be a basic document for the priorities that the Ministry will pursue with regard to any proposals for improvements and extensions to existing prisons or new buildings. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Advance Party and the Right when they call for political treatment of the capacity plan in the Stortinget. Then we would have a greater anchor, which would once again give the criminal services predictable signals about future investment and unit structure, and we would have an important debate in Stortinget. As regards proposal No: Three, I'll make a clarification. We feel that there has been a job in reaching agreements on compensation transfers for foreign criminals, but that the number of compensation transfers outside the Nordic region has been relatively modest. Therefore, we support the sale that the government immediately starts work on intensifying the number of settlement transfers, and that in some cases, where there are agreements, or where possible, it also opens up to buy settlements for foreign offenders in their country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3142	We're talking about a rather serious topic. These are people that we in the courtrooms take away freedom and put behind the walls. This is one of the most serious things a human being can be exposed to, and those who sit behind the walls deserve it because they have disrupted the order of justice in our society and reduced the quality of life of humans. But it is nevertheless serious for a human being to be deprived of freedom, and therefore we must know: What is the goal of this? Why are we putting people behind locks and punches? If it's revenge, we have a problem as a society. A civilised society does not retaliate, even against those who violate the order of society. The goal is – we have emphatically fixed that in St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08 on punishment that works — preventing, rehabilitating, bringing them back to society as better people than when they entered prison. Is the question of whether the measures proposed by the Progress Party now contribute to making them better people? Will they achieve the objectives which the Progress Party actually agreed with when we discussed St.meld. No 37? I was impressed by the statements made by the rapporteur. She gave good examples from other countries that we do not like to compare with, for example. Romania. Those who sit in jail, do they get better people when they get out? Is relationships correct? Is it so arranged that those inside will be better people when they get out? And if the goal is also to partially deter, is it deterrent? Those countries that actually have much higher levels of crime than us are precisely those countries where prison conditions are far worse than ours, so there is no logic or connection between having worse conditions in prison and achieving these goals. In fact, sometimes it is very stated and does not really understand the objective of the proposals and measures promoted by the Progress Party in different areas of society. This is one of them. Let's do a very straightforward example. I do not think that this proposal should have been promoted, but it has been promoted in serious terms in the Stortingen, and then we have to take it seriously. This concerns the reduction or abolition of daily allowances for foreign nationals. Where do these people buy razor blades, toothpaste and toothbrushes? Is it in Romania that they buy this while they're in Kongswinger or up in Finnmark? Or do they buy it in Russia or Poland? It is clear that it is on the same market as Norwegian citizens, buying toothpaste and other shavings. So it's going to cost the exact same thing. If we want to reduce prices, these articles had to be imported from Romania or Moscow, that's when they get cheaper. Sometimes the proposals are so trivial that you almost have no desire or are tempted to debate them. We and the red-green government are proud of the criminal care we've provided in the last eight years. We have, in cooperation with those who do this job, provided and laid long lines for how to prevent and rehabilitate, and the results speak for themselves. We still have a low level of crime in our country, we still have less relapses in our country compared to many other countries, and we succeed with the rest of the policy as well. So I have to say, you try to give the impression that the opposition is standing together in terms of criminal custody, but that's not much. You come no further than to proposal No. 3 before this card house collapses. It is these parties that are to govern the country together – if it is supposed to be a majority – and then we really do not know what kind of criminal care we are going to have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3155	This government is committed to providing adequate settlement capacity, which means that the police will have custody facilities at their disposal and that it will not build up a settlement queue. When we discussed St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, Punishment that works — less crime — safer societies, we agreed that the implementation of sanctions can be done using alternatives to prison to a moderate extent, and I am therefore pleased to record that the implementation of criminal sanctions with electronic control has produced good results so far, and also provides more prison sites. During the period from 2006 to this year, accumulating capacity corresponding to approximately 890 places is established. 657 new prison sites have been established. In addition, the establishment of criminal enforcement with electronic control has given a capacity of 237 places. Decommissioning of some prison sites has also been carried out, making the total net increase from 2006 to this year 513 prison sites. Last year, a draft study on current measures on the elderly and inappropriate prisons in the counties of Buskerud, Vestfold, Telemark, Aust-Agder and Vest-Agder was launched — today it is for external quality assurance. The use of custody has increased in recent years because we have strengthened the police, we have investigation methods that have become more effective, we have a higher percentage of intelligence, and there is also an increase in the detention of foreign criminals. The average sitting time in custody has also increased, and I am therefore following this situation closely. On the proposals made by the representatives, I would like to mention that the central administration of criminal justice has developed a capacity plan, and the plan is already mentioned in today's debate. The plan will be followed up in the ministry and will be a basic document for the priorities that the government will make with regard to any improvements or new buildings. Any proposals for the establishment of new posts, with proposed appropriations, will be submitted to the Stortinget in an ordinary manner. Therefore, the government does not intend to submit the proposal for a capacity plan for consideration in the Storting. The starting point of the Criminal Enforcement Act is that all prisoners should be treated equally irrespective of their status. It is important to clarify that foreign prisoners are subject to the same activity obligation as others and that the daily allowance is a benefit for that purpose. The daily allowance shall cover, as we heard, the need for necessary toilet supplies, etc., and all prisoners shall be at the same prices. The government has established a prison for foreign prisoners in Kongswinger. The content of the criminal implementation is adapted to the target audience and is consistent with national and international obligations. Before deciding on the establishment of such detention centres, it is necessary to draw up experience over a longer period of operation. In Norway, experience suggests that a blending model, where prisons can receive both prison and custody prisoners, is most appropriate. It provides for more flexibility in capacity utilisation, and it also provides greater scope for activation of custody inmates to address insulation damage. It is also the most resource-efficient system. It is an objective that foreign prisoners should be transferred as soon as possible to continue to reside in their country of origin. All countries which have ratified the Convention have undertaken to cooperate on the transfer of their own nationals. It is therefore not appropriate for Norway to buy places to achieve the same objective. If this had only been about prison places, I think we'd actually seen greater scope in the transfer. In this context, I do not think it appropriate to implement the proposed measures in the proposal for a representative now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3181	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3185	First of all, I have to say that I recognise the debate. I think the government should have the honor to have managed to connect two relationships in terms of increasing the capacity of the criminal justice system. The first thing is to get more volume, get more space, but you have a great opportunity in this capacity work to improve the content of the property to each and every one of the indoors and zones, to ensure better rehabilitation. In this way I react to the posts of the representative Michaelsen, where she almost troubles and makes it a problem that prisoners go from closed to open atoning, and then possibly to home reconciliation. That's what's a lot of the intention in St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, and as many of us have seen, results are much better in rehabilitation. Perhaps one of the most important things in the rehabilitation work is the soning that has progress in it, and that signals progression to the one who is actually in there and is punishing it. I therefore believe that there is reason to stress in this debate that more capacity sources should be sought in order to reduce and increase the capacity – and that, even if the queues are not as high now as when the Right and the Advance Party made budgets in this country – one should first of all look at the alternative forms of reconciliation that we have, for example. the possibility of extending the Youth Penalty in order to make it nationwide as rapidly as possible. Another example is home zoning — look at the capacity there. I'm glad the government is doing what it's doing in this area -- the last thing in Northernland, I guess. There are many advantages to looking at these alternative responses, mainly because the majority of those in and out of the zone are punishing very short sentences. In this way, it takes up a lot of capacity – you go out and in – but you need more content-based measures than what we might be able to give them today. In the long term, it will be very precautionary to be able to provide them with a response that helps to rehabilitate — not to ensure that those sitting in this room in 10 years’ time face the same problem. The second is that I think it'll create more flexibility across the system if you get more volume on the alternative responses. It frees closed areas from those prisoners who strictly do not need it – places that we could finely use on those who need to be in custody, or those who, due to the gravity of the sentence, must zone behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3198	I do not know if the former Minister of Justice has missed us, but it is partly good to have him back. He's heard some debates before, so this might be fun. Akhtar Chaudhry was very busy asking questions if someone gets better people afterwards. I think at least I'll be a much better person when I stop listening to Akhtar Chaudhry's posts about the Right and Advance Party, and what we really mean, when I get out of here. In St.meld. No 37 absolutely all parties were united on the important principles of which Akhtar Chaudhry – and all the others here – are concerned. But what we're talking about today is part of the principles of return to Norwegian society – these are those that are going to be returned to Norwegian society, not those that are not going to be returned, but that are going to go out. That's the problem with parts of St.meld. No 37 – it has not problemed enough about what is a major challenge now, namely that we have an excessive proportion of foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons that we do not know what to do with. Then I think it's on the verge of spending most of the time talking about the Right and the Progress Party's allegedly human-disdaining policy. As far as I remember, until last year, with its own prisons and departments for foreign criminals, there was human disdain, while now there is a good solidarity between the SV and the Labour Party, where the content of the compensation for people with a different background is available. I think that I say a little bit about the moment the Right Party and the Advance Party propose something, it's human contempt, but if SV believes it, it's good content in the atonement to make sure that everyone gets a decent offer. I would like the Council of State during the debate to give one good reason not to submit the capacity plan to the Stortinget. It's been said that you don't want to, but the reason we haven't gotten along yet. I think it's confusing like spending many, many years trying to figure out that a police study wasn't that stupid. Now the state council calls it a police analysis, while the police director calls it by his real name: police study. It's interesting that there's some disagreement in terminology here. We need a capacity plan for Stortinget, and we also need a revision of St.meld. No Thirty-seven. What employees say is that it is not possible to implement all the important principles that we agree on, because the resources and possibilities to implement them are not there. The Justice Committee was visiting Bodø. I think it was quite interesting to hear that some of the trustees described e.g.. the solstice transfer regime as a pure and cutting joke. It's a pretty powerful expression, but it's proof that St.meld. No 37 need a revision, not least considering how to solve the challenges that we all agree on: that we are not able to solve the challenges with all the foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3215	I note that the sitting government has found its mantra for the election campaign, in particular the Minister of Justice has gone ahead here and added up to a rhetoric that is not related to the proposals being promoted. I register that the case rapporteur today uses the same opinion. So now it's human vision and breach of international obligations that's going to be the review tone of the election campaign. We're going to answer that, because if there's a breach of conventions and international agreements, it's enough to pick from when it comes to this government. Packs have come from different international forums in the last 15 years. But I see that's what you're going to use when you're running out of material arguments. So it's like the criminal services do a great job. They work hard every day, and they're in the first line when it comes to seeing developments go in the negative direction. My committee has received information from a number of people who work in criminal matters. It's unsustainable relationships. You can't transfer foreign criminals. It's become a farce. The Minister of Justice refers to the Convention. It doesn't mean anything, it doesn't help on the capacity at all. The EU has decided that there will now be a mandatory transfer between EU countries – Norway will not be included. The situation for Norway is that the challenges we face are even greater. It's not about human vision or international commitments. It's about cleaning up relationships that have been problematic in more than this government's reign. It was so under Bondevik II as well. Yes, it was sweet under Stoltenberg's first government as well. That's how it was during the Bondevik I government, too. This situation has gone back and forth, up and down, with varying challenges since the signing of the Treaty on European Union in 1997. There is a difference between the Progress Party and the other parties: Yes, we will follow our suggestions and promises in St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, but we will not be able to increase the capacity of Norwegian criminal services by releasing more. That's what this is about. We believe that if we take a power cap to transfer foreign criminals and reduce the standard for foreign criminals, it will give us massive capacity. That's what it's about, but then you don't want to get involved in the debate and use words and expressions like 'human vision' and 'international commitments' to hide behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3224	I have already explained how we have worked to increase capacity, and also how we have used alternative forms of reconciliation, but since there are several people who have requested how the capacity plan will be followed up, I will come back to that question, even though I explained what the government thinks about it. That's absolutely right, what the representative Oktay Dahl says: I've asked for a police analysis. I have done this to get a good overview of how the police resources are used, and therefore a good basis for following this up in an appropriate manner to Stortinget. We also follow up the capacity plan in an appropriate manner to Stortinget, and – as I explained – through the annual budget proposals. Of course, there will also be a current issue related to how we should put in place a long-term, good plan to strengthen the police. It is also right that I have expressed my views on proposals relating to the field of immigration, which have been submitted by representatives in this Chamber. I have stated that the proposals – inter alia: a proposal for a prison regime linked to the institution of asylum, which is so far unknown, I believe, both in this country and in the European context – for me it seems to be building on a human vision that I cannot stand behind. I have never expressed myself about people when it comes to their view of one thing or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3233	Three minutes is a little bit. The representative Akhtar Chaudhry asked a whole series of questions. I can't answer everyone in 3 minutes. Until the last time the Council of State is in, about human vision, I don't know anyone in this room who has proposed a prison regime for asylum seekers. There must be something the state council itself has invented. I have not seen any position or suggestion from this room, I, about any prison regime for asylum seekers. But I know very well that the Foreign Affairs Directorate, and the indirect government, is building the kind of prison-like institutions in Greece, which I am going to visit myself, so I think one should be careful to use that kind of word and expression. One should perhaps sweep for one's own door first. To Akhtar Chaudhry, who asked a lot of questions: it is that, with regard to our latest prison, Halden, we have a cross-political agreement that there should not be foreign criminals there. There shall not be any persons who are not to be rehabilitated and returned to Norwegian society. The last time we were there with the committee, it was 40 pst. foreign criminals. Then it's wasted resources. Then we use a lot of resources there on people who are not going back to Norwegian society, and who could have been used in a completely different way. That's why the Progress Party proposed imprisonment for foreign criminals, which at the time almost revealed a bad human vision, but which has now become a reality. Despite the fact that the Storting has voted it down, this government has done so. In fact, the government has acted against Storting’s intention – it’s also interesting in itself. So that's the way it is -- I'd like to ask the question to Akhtar Chaudhry: when we're going to transfer foreign criminals to Romania, does Akhtar Chaudhry think they're going to have $57 a day even if they're in Romania? That's what you indirectly say: you're in favour of settlement transfer agreements to the country of origin – that's what this government has boasted about. I have to say that I was happy, too, on the day I heard that the previous Minister of Justice, Storberget, presented these agreements – which proved not to work at all. Does it really mean to transfer the daily allowance function to the foreign criminals when they are in the country of origin? That's what this is about. For me and for many in the Progress Party, prison sentences also involve a detention exercise to be used to rehabilitate as much as possible. At the same time, I have a feeling that one still forgets one essential thing: it is that penalties and penalties are also available to protect the victim who has been subjected to criminal activity and to protect society from repetition. It is forgotten in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3246	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 12 and 13 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3273	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3282	These are, as the Stortinget will see, issues in which the political disagreement is great, but as the rapporteur I would nevertheless like to thank for the cooperation with the Committee, where there has been a clean cooperation and a good process, from my point of view at least. There are two points: one is draft No. 96 from the Progress Party to impose a beg ban and have a plan of action against begging, and the other is Prop. 152 L on changes to the police law, where the government proposes that local police regulations lay down conditions for the collection of funds and where reporting obligations can also be imposed and recorded. The size of the population adopted the Law on Disposal repealed in 2005, on the basis of the fact that, at the time, drug users were generally quite worn-out, that there was a manifest social policy intervention, and that social policy challenges were addressed by that abolition. In the proposition, it is clear that the government itself now sees that there are other issues that challenge us, than at that time, in the abolition of the law of prosecuting. It appears to be more organised begging, and the police also report a link between begging and crime. The Committee endorses that description of reality and supports the government's need to be able to take regulatory action to limit the scale of begging and also address the crime challenges. So this is one thing with many dimensions. There have been some new driving forces in the picture that affect both the case and the debate. As stated in the voting, there are minority proposals. I will immediately take up the proposals that have been put forward by the Right with the Progress Party. The majority, the government fraction, is in favour of an adjusted legal text promoted in the proposition. I suppose, to the extent that the Council of State may itself explain what may be in the adjustment that the legislative text has received and that is reflected in the setting. So to the comments from the Right. This is a matter where we are going to debate the challenges of justice policy. For the right, it is also very important to stress that this case has many social policy dimensions, which must be addressed in order to prevent the driving forces that lead to begging, whether Norwegian or foreign beggars. This issue and this debate are about, from our point of view, the effects of justice policy and the instruments of justice policy. In our comments, we have highlighted in particular the challenges of possible links between begging and trafficking in human beings. We refer to the judgment in Bergen District Court on 5 June last year, where one points to a possible relationship between begging and trafficking in human beings of a very serious nature. The comments also show that in Sweden it has been shown that 166 children were victims of trafficking in human beings, where begging was one element. I would also like to stress that the government's legislative proposals under consideration raise major questions about implementation. The Committee was given a few days before it was due to give its opinion, a question from the Oslo City Council, where they actually ask the Committee to clarify how the law is to be interpreted and handled. It is not a quality sign in such an important matter. From the right is the conclusion: we are going to reintroduce a beggar ban with immediate effect. We see it as the best tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3303	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3306	This issue has been seen to create very strong moods in the population — from the extreme point of almost stamping peoples to the extreme point of believing that begging is a positive phenomenon. The fact that there are so strong emotions – moods – about this matter, makes it all the more our responsibility to try to look for common solutions, to mitigate conflicts, to look carefully at what we agree on. You can also see that when you read the settings of the Justice Committee. We agree that the situation has changed in relation to when the Storting repealed the Law on Disposal – I stress that it was unanimous – and that there is now a need to intervene with regulatory measures against beggaring that are not purely situational, which has only been the case in recent years. It is agreed that most beggars are in a difficult situation of life, whether from Norway or abroad, and that there are major social issues at the root of which we must first and foremost address welfare measures — including in the home country of the visitors. We have seen today that there are discussions about how much resources are actually deployed. It is good that satisfactory information has now been provided that the use of EEA funds to help the space people in their home country will be stepped up in the years to come. Although this is primarily a social problem, we are aware of the relationship between the extent of begging and the extent of certain forms of crime, and that there have been regulatory problems related to, among other things. sewerage and sanitary conditions. When there is such a broad consensus on what it is all about, and when the starting point is that we have to do something together, I think – when you know that the government parties plus the Christian People's Party and the Left are against a general ban – it is a pity that it should be so difficult to discuss subsidiary solutions, which can do something about what we agree on. We see that most countries in Western Europe, which have implemented measures in respect of travellers and local beggars, have made it possible for local authorities to make regulations. At present only Denmark and the United Kingdom have a total ban, while countries such as Spain, France, Switzerland, Germany, Austria, etc. has different forms of local regulation. That is what we have also proposed, and for which the majority of the committee is in favour. To comment on a few of the proposals: In some municipalities, reporting obligations have been tested for a long time in the field of money collection. There was an important objection, among other things. from the Municipality of Oslo, that there were problems in implementing this, because it would also affect collections for non-profit institutions serving households. This has been tried by the government to resolve and provide a solution to the now promoted proposition, which states that those registered in the collection register will not be subject to such reporting obligations and that it is also added to the adaptations for more local, non-profit collections. It's a shame you can't see more positive about this, meet important objections and are more willing to try it out. We have seen examples of how police have also tried this out and seen its effects. In the mountains, there are, among other things, tried out a diversity patrol to follow up on reporting obligations to police stations there. In Oslo, it has been said that the imposition of reporting obligations will be too many. It might have been interesting to think about how many people would actually come. We need to get an overview of how many beggars we have here, and also get an overview of how many people work to go to the police – because they probably don't have clean flour in the bag. There is also an important legislative proposal on the regulation of the time and place of begging in public places. I hope that we can have respect for the fact that we have tried to find an intermediate solution, and that we do not prejudge the north and down the attempts to come up with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3325	The party of progress looks with concern at today's development of increasingly aggressive begging. It has gradually become clear through media redundancies and police statements that begging also brings with it other, more serious, crimes, such as burglaries and brutality. When the Barriers Act was repealed in 2005, it was on the grounds that the number of beggars had been significantly reduced over a period of time. Furthermore, it was justified that beggaring should have a social policy focus more than a criminal policy. At the time, begging was something that largely concerned Norwegian citizens, which was also the subject of the rapporteur's main contribution. The opening of borders to Eastern Europe in 2005 has led to a greater number of current beggars travelling from other countries. Rumens form a major part of these. Through various media surveys, it has been seen that the Romanians organize themselves in groups, where individuals are placed in different places in the city and beg there. This form of organised begging often constitutes a cover for other, more serious forms of crime. Intrusions and gross thefts are not an unusual consequence of the begging problem. Less serious conditions, such as nasking and pocket thefts, also follow in the wake of the incoming beggar environment. Media surveys have recently shown how the number of handkerchiefs has exploded in both cities in general and in Oslo in particular. It is necessary to make better use of the scope of the Schengen Agreement than is currently the case. Increased attention to border controls with frequent random checks also within Schengen could help to prevent crime in Norwegian cities. I would also like to point out that several disturbing examples of trafficking in human beings have been seen in the Romanian beggar environment. A case dealt with in the Bergen district court some time ago included both the trade in and sexual abuse of children, and the children were forced to both theft and the sale of false gold jewelry. Unfortunately, the fact is that the Norwegian level of punishment and prison services – as we discussed in the previous case – do not appear preventative on people from countries with significantly higher levels of punishment and lower prison standards. Trafficking in human beings is such a serious crime that action is urgently needed. Increased police attention to trafficking in human beings combined with an immediate increase in the penalties for this type of crime will be appropriate and preventative measures. In an attempt to control the begging problem, a number of municipalities have today introduced registration obligations for beggars. This allows the police to expel beggars who are not allowed to beg, and is thus a small step in the right direction. However, this solution is not sufficient and will red tape and make police work more difficult compared to a general ban. There is also little reason to believe that the major challenges associated with today’s begging will disappear even if the beggars are ordered to have a municipal beggar’s permit. The Municipality of Oslo has repeatedly tried to go further and wants to implement a local total ban on begging. So this has not been possible under today's legislation. The willingness to solve problems in municipalities is generally high. It would therefore be wise to draw up arrangements allowing the municipalities themselves to introduce measures to combat begging. A proposal for a solution here could be municipal fines against illegal begging. This type of mechanism could relieve the police while strengthening local self-government. The Oslo police have clearly opposed today's regime and want a ban. Sources in the Oslo Police have stated that the situation is difficult to manage without a clear warrant for the expulsion of aggressive beggars. The establishment has thus said that one wants such a law - abiding place. It is therefore appropriate to be very careful to ignore clear calls from the department dealing with this problem every day. So unfortunately, the government chooses to turn the deaf ear to. The scale of the beggar problem has now become so wide that action is urgently needed. Trafficking in human beings, child exploitation, handkerchiefs and burglaries are criminal offences resulting from the cold water of beggars. An action plan on crime related to the beggar environment is necessary in order to control the situation, and with the current knowledge, there is strong concern that such an action plan – as proposed by the Progress Party in its proposal for a representative – also includes a general ban on begging. I am addressing the suggestions the Progress Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3344	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3347	About 2 billion people live in poverty in our world. Over 1 billion people live in extreme poverty, they live for less than 1 dollar a day. One of them is Gina Ionesco. She's in Oslo's streets, she's sleeping under the bridge at the Sinsen Cross, she's traveled from her three children in Romania. The infant is nine months old, the other two are five and six years old. Gina – along with her husband – earns between 100 and 200 kroner a day by begging in Oslo’s streets. Money's sending her home. The last time they did it was a month ago. "We use the money for food for the children and milk for the smallest boy," says the grandmother, who looks after these children. «The money I send to Romania. It lasts for a bit of food, a meal or two, no more." It says Gina to the newspaper. This is the life of Gina, her three children and several thousand other people only live in Europe, not to mention all the other poor around the world. For all we know, Gina can sit right outside this hall, this house, and fight her life fight: how am I going to get food tonight? How's my baby gonna get milk tonight? At the same time, Stortinget is debating the matter. And what are we debating? Are we debating how to eliminate or combat poverty? Are we debating how we can make life easier for Gina and her nine-month-old baby? Are we debating how we can get Gina a job so she can get out of poverty? No, we are debating how we can remove Gina from our streets, not her poverty. Streets must be cleaned and refurbished. Our biggest problem today is people in need and begging in our streets. Some even want to use the most powerful means in the country of law; police and prison. We have a problem. We are not able to put ourselves in the situation of poor people. In this room there are representatives and parties who are attached to the EU and its four freedoms. They will have free flow of jobseekers, service providers and capital, but they will not at the same time see the poor in distress in the same EU in their eyes. Those who can come and strengthen our welfare are welcome, but those who need to beg are not welcome. It's a paradox, it's a contradiction someone should realize. I am glad that the government still believes that we cannot combat poverty by banning a five-year-old from begging for milk for Gina's nine-month-old baby. Government parties have agreed that begging should continue to be allowed in Norway, that it can allow registration of people who want to beg in our streets, so that we can provide beggars with security, remove criminals from our streets and make our streets safe. It opens up the possibility of prohibiting begging during given time periods and in given geographical areas, but it shall never be made such as to constitute a de facto ban throughout the city. And such restrictions cannot be implemented before, and without, there are social measures like shower, toilet and the allocation of simple food, a cup of soup, to people in distress. I am not going to hide where SV and I stand in this matter, but when you first have to find compromises with their partners, I believe that we have found good measures that will give people in need the opportunity to get money for milk for the children and a meal. At the same time, municipalities should facilitate these people to stay in Norway with human dignity in place. That's how a civilized society should act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3360	The center party has confirmed that we want to reintroduce the ban on begging. It is not to conceal poverty or to ban social distress, such as some speakers in order to allow begging to be easily sarcastically formulated. On the other hand, it is to ban a phenomenon that keeps up social distress and that is linked to different types of crime, such as profit-criminalism and trafficking in human beings. In particular, the Central Party will have a general ban on beggaring again, as we had until 2006, but we support the changes in police laws that are being made today, because they can contribute positively to reducing the strain and the extent. All three governmental parties have recognised that begging is a problem and that something has to be done. The fact that we are not certain about how far we should go in preventing beggaring is obvious, but the fact that local authorities can now impose local prohibitions defined on time and city is a step forward. We have to follow developments and results carefully, and if the municipal regulations do not work well enough in practice, we are a step closer to a general ban. Sometimes it's humane and helpful to allow begging to be allowed. I don't doubt the good intentions. But I don't know if the way out of poverty goes by sitting on the asphalt for hours every day with a cup in hand. In our society, we think that young people who grow up are best educated and motivated to work. We have compulsory schooling and measures to get people to work if they can't do it themselves. Our culture is structured like this – attitudes and actions often hang together. The phenomenon of begging does not have clear, simple reasons. But it is still appropriate to point out that in groups of people where there is culture to beg rather than work for a rest of their lives, young people are often prevented from going to school. It becomes too easy to say that begging comes only from discrimination and lack of other possibilities. Lack of desire and willingness to take advantage of other possibilities can also play in. Norway permits annual money for various EEA measures aimed at poor Roma in ten other European countries — most of them to Romania and Bulgaria. More of this is the way to go. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that Norwegian authorities are to initiate a dialogue with the EU and the recipient country concerned in order to target, where appropriate, unused EEA funds for the current period to increase space people’s efforts. I know that a follow-up to the treatment of the revised national budget is being worked on. This is good. I hope that the authorities of the years to come will make sure that more money is spent to secure a future for young people. Social responses in the home country — combined with schooling facilities — are important. At the same time, in order to have the best possible effect, we need to make it less attractive to beg here on land, so that the motivation for parents to provide education for young people in their home country – and thus the chance to get a job in the future – is not too low. A beggar ban would make the market worse. This is about making a sensible approach to justice policy here a country and at the same time supporting good social policy responses in the home country to beggars. It is often said by the champions that begging is allowed, that spending money on begging is better than nothing. For some poor families, it would also be better than nothing if we allowed child labour again, but we don't because we mean kids should let it go. But that young people should be forced to beg is certainly not so bad, a true debate should be held between them. Local authorities are provided with a new tool to limit begging when they are to be able to impose local prohibitions – by defining times and places where begging is not allowed. It is important that local assessments are given high priority in the design of the police regulations. It is the municipalities and communities that know what the situation is like in their areas. I would like to refer to the reply letter of 29 May this year from the Ministry of Justice of the Municipality of Oslo, where the Ministry decides that a major emphasis should be placed on the local authorities' assessments. It also applies if the municipalities think it is necessary to define the whole center as an area where it is not allowed to beg. I trust that the municipalities will manage this well in the future, and I would encourage those municipalities that have problems with extreme begging to use the tools they are now given. Now municipalities and cities around the country can for example: prevent beggar gangs from establishing themselves around old homes and traffic nodes. Oslo Municipality – as the country's capital – has a special responsibility to do something. Today's changes in police laws are a real step forward, but in my opinion they are also a possible step towards a general ban. It will be easiest for all parties to comply – for the municipalities, the police and those who would like to travel here to beg. For the time being, I hope that the changes we are adopting today will give a positive result. This implies that the municipalities will use the possibilities they will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3394	Although some of the beggar activities in Norway also involve problems of order and crime, the Christian People's Party believes that the main perspective in the face of begging must be that this is about poor people in a very difficult situation. If beggars also commit criminal acts, they must be taken, just as others who commit crime must be taken. We can then agree that beggaring is not a solution to the problems of those arriving in the country of origin in south-east Europe. The best thing would be that no one had to beg. Work is the way out of poverty. But the economic situation in Europe means that we should all take on board that poverty migration from the EEA region to Norway could become a continuing phenomenon in the coming years. The Christian People's Party, with the human dignity at its centre, will have an overall approach that responds to different aspects of the challenge posed by an increasing number of beggars. We are faced with a social policy challenge, which needs to assess what are appropriate measures to make the lives of the beggars more valuable, by providing health, sanitary and housing services in various ways. The Christian People's Party will support and reinforce the proposed efforts in this area. We're proposing 20 million. kr in the grant scheme for non-governmental organisations working on humanitarian measures for people in need. The measures should be designed to reduce the potential conflict. We are also faced with a challenge in the field of justice, in which we need to assess which instruments are suitable to prevent disorder, trafficking in human beings and other types of crime. The police must have tools. And not least we are facing an international challenge, where we must contribute to improving living conditions and rights in the country of origin of the arriving tigers. An appropriate form of this is the EEA funds which cover, inter alia,: Romania. But then, in fact, the support must also be directed at space people and not as the Evening Post presents today, that only a small proportion is. In the view of the Christian People's Party, Norway should and can do more to help the home countries — both in the short and long term, through EEA funding and by other initiatives. We are therefore proposing 50 million in the revised national budget. for relief measures by non-governmental organisations which have worked, or sister organisations working, in the countries of origin of these people. When the government now proposes to amend the police law in order to introduce a time and area ban on begging, they do so even if they say in their own proposal that if begging is carried out in an unacceptable way, this could initially be handled by means of existing legal provisions. The wish of municipalities for a reporting obligation scheme related to money collection – an instrument favoured by the Christian People’s Party – can already be used today. Both Bergen and Kristiansand have good experience with this very arrangement. The Party of Advances and the Right shall call for a ban on begging. The Christian People's Party refuses to impose a ban on begging. The government has also said no to a general beg ban. Unlike the government, the Christian People's Party seems to be demanding to open at the same time in order to be able to limit the time and range of begging. It will soon be able to act like a semi-ban, and it will soon be seen as an opportunity to hide beggars from where people move. We don't have to go further than Oslo City Council to find examples of such thinking, with proposals to ban begging within Ring 2 – or more curious – outside the mark line. The representative Chauhdry had a good post, where he pulled out the Gina. The consequences of the government's proposal can quickly be that Gina is being chased around Oslo, or chased out, just by the means that the government wants to put in place, and that the Storting is likely to adopt today. The Christian People's Party considers enforcement of existing legal provisions to be satisfactory in order to protect citizens. Therefore, we do not support the proposal to amend Section 14 of the Police Act in order to provide a basis for banning money collection in special zones or periods. Finally, I will bring a heart attack. I see that in the hall today there are many followers of the ban, and many will also fight against a ban. In the debate, it often turns out that you're either naive or you're evil. I hope we can conduct a debate on begging that is about how we can help people who are in a difficult situation, and how we can help even more people get out of the difficult situation of asking for help and begging for food in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3430	Yes, for many people who walk around Oslo City, it is perceived as unpleasant. For many people it is sometimes perceived as frightening. It's not like any of us want people to beg. It's not like any of us want people to have to go here. Most of us in this room want people to get help where they are if they are struggling with poverty, discrimination and exclusion. Most of us here would have wanted our EEA funds to be used to combat poverty right where it is. The left – as a Christian People's Party – has also added 10 million. kr for Norwegian organisations wishing to carry out aid projects in these countries to have the opportunity to do so in order to reach precisely those groups. But aggressive begging is not allowed in Norway today. It's in the vast majority of police regulations. If anyone acts aggressively towards others by begging for money, the police today have full permission to stop them. It is also not allowed to commit serious crime in Norway. It's in the term. There are clear legal provisions against it. And it is not allowed to trade in human beings in Norway. We have today a lot of laws that regulate what we actually think should be regulated, which is the crime we want to fight. Trafficking in human beings was also used as an example here in the debate to get a sex-purchasing law, because then trafficking in human beings was to be abolished. We got the Sex Purchases Act. No one has been convicted for trafficking in human beings on the basis of it. No trafficking in human beings has been rolled up on the basis of it. There's a lot of times that to avoid something you don't like, you use as an argument that you want to fight other crime. There is no clear link between begging and the gross crime that many here point to. It's never been clear to the police. But we have to judge people for the crime they do, not because we don't like them. It was said by the Progress Party that in Oslo a total ban is sought. No, there are now two proposals in Oslo. The proposal on reporting obligations was defeated. There are two proposals – one from the Progress Party on bans within the Markagren and one from the Workers' Party on bans within Ring 2. I hope none of them will be adopted, because the police have said they don't want them. The police have said that it will be very difficult to enforce, and that is not the way they want it. This is my problem with the Labour Party proposal here today, where rules are to be introduced that the police think are going to be more difficult to implement. There's a lot of numbers, there's a lot of statements, and there's a lot of things here that really should have been taken up point by point, and no one can show that has root in reality. Perhaps you should make sure to seek out knowledge about the very group that we are talking about here, which has been excluded from Europe since it came once in the 1500s-1600s. When you say that kids shouldn't come here to beg because they should have gone to school, you know little about the reality of the countries they live in. If you think that the option is to go to school, then it's so far from what we know about the space population – especially in these Eastern European countries – that I'm getting a little scared. This is about countries where small-scale fascist – yes, semi-fascist – parties achieve a high degree of disintegration in elections, precisely because of their hatred of this group. There are people who are being killed because of their ethnicity. Yes, Europe has seen it before. Yes, the Norwegian Parliament should be ashamed of what was done at the end of the 1930s, when the Norwegian Roma were sent back – right in the concentration camps – by decision in this Chamber. We should take a closer look at what is happening around Europe in terms of this group. Then we should come up with measures that actually work. My main objection is that ban doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3446	Tetting is undesirable, but we see with all manner of clarity that begging jumps out of social distress. The social and human challenges of this social distress are the country of origin of the individual, and poverty reduction is the primary responsibility of the countries of origin. Norway contributes 300 million to this work through the EEA funds. kr, but the government also looks at the possibility of increasing the allocation towards space and marginalised groups by channelling unused funds to these groups. Although begging is undesirable, I believe a total ban will be the wrong way to go, both because a ban will not remedy the poverty itself, with which we, as a society, have to endure to face, and because I believe a total ban will require police enforcement that cannot be defended as a resource, set up against other police tasks. However, the regulatory challenges posed by beggaring in some places must be taken seriously. What we are adopting today in Stortingen is going to help solve the regulatory challenges. Experience — not least from Oslo — shows that the number of beggars has increased and that beggaring some places is carried out in a way that creates public uncertainty. Information from the police also tells us that there are challenges related to crime among beggars. Typing is carried out in most municipalities to an extent and in a way that does not pose major regulatory challenges. However, there is a need to be able to take regulatory action in the municipalities where regulatory challenges arise, and that is the background to the proposal in the proposal. The proposal in the bill provides municipalities with a set of instruments. The police regulations may lay down conditions for the collection of funds. These conditions must be justified by their orderly nature. A municipality would be able to state prohibitions in certain geographical areas or timings or to leave such regulation entirely to the police. It is natural that there is dialogue between the municipality and the police on any areas to be affected. In areas where many people travel, where there is unrest, or where it is clearly distressing or disturbing the public, restrictions could be imposed. It's on the verge of, for example, traffic nodes and public transport are among the areas to which specific challenges may be attached. Municipalities may also choose to impose a reporting obligation on the police which would keep a register of those who have notified that they will collect money in a public place. This is an instrument that has been shown to have a damping effect on beggaring. It could also facilitate a better fight against crime in the beggar environment. In those municipalities where there is a disorder of the order of begging, the challenges must be met with thoughtful strategies, where police, municipalities and other public and private actors must cooperate closely. Resources need to be deployed in several areas, and legislative changes are intended to be useful tools for such a holistic approach. Because there are large local differences in the orderly challenges of beggaring, it is also natural for regulatory measures to be assessed locally by the municipalities. In the revised national budget, the Government has proposed to establish a grant scheme of 10 million. kr, where municipalities and organisations may seek funds for humanitarian action during the summer. The grant scheme has now been announced, and this is an important part of the overall government's wish to intervene in this area. Subsidies may be granted, for example: the establishment of shower and toilet facilities, and in some places it may also be relevant with the assistance of advisers with relevant language and cultural skills to inform about the regulatory needs of beggars. The proposers behind the representative proposal 96 S for 2012–2013 call for an action plan against beggar-related crime. In this context, I would like to point out that, while we presented our bill, the government also presented other measures that are suitable for improving the orderly situation. This will include, inter alia: become a lower threshold to expel foreigners who commit minor thefts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3466	It is interesting to get an insight into the heads of the Council of State, how to think about this proposal, because the Council of State started to say that begging is undesirable – point – and ends the article by talking about granting, among other things. Ten million. kr to facilitate the coming beggars. This does not actually matter. Then I was a little surprised when I heard that the argument to the government not to go in for a general beg ban was that it would be inappropriate for the police in relation to the resource use. But what every day are beggar-free zones going to mean for the police's resource use, whether to fly and make sure that people don't cross a street and beg somewhere else etc.? Doesn't it even make any sense to the council that what the police have asked for, is actually a general begging ban? Doesn't that make any sense at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3473	It is natural to attach great importance to the evaluations made by the police in the various fields relevant to the establishment. But then it is that in democracy – including in a democracy like ours – one sometimes has to have a broader and more holistic view and choose solutions that do not fully follow the recommendations of the police. From my point of view, it has also been important to assess what is realistic. In my opinion, it appears more realistic to be able to enforce a limited ban than a national ban. We also know that there are few municipalities that have a situation that makes it necessary to deal with this challenge, and among other things. assess whether time-and-site regulation is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3478	On the table of Oslo City Council, there is a proposal to ban begging in the centre areas of Ring 2 in residential areas, at shopping centres and at public transport hubs, a ban which, according to the proposal, will apply throughout the summer – from May to September, as far as I remember. My question to the Council of State is: Is such a proposal within the law, as it is formulated in the proposition, or is it outside the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3485	It's worth noting that it's not long this debate is going on until we start discussing concrete solutions in the capital. There is some background to the fact that once we have developed measures, including the proposal for regulatory regulation, we have shown that the best way to do this – which is also used in many other countries – is to provide better tools to local authorities, who in discussion with the police need to assess whether there are regulatory challenges that make it right to regulate begging. As far as Oslo is concerned, various proposals have been discussed, and there are now proposals on the table that it will not be right for me to rule out already now. But that discussion must be brought together by the local authorities with the police, and then we will see to it that the police directorate gives the proposal quick treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3490	Before the adoption of Brustad-bua, there was a lot of talk about worker protection, that Sunday should be a different day, and solidarity. The only thing that was achieved was the stacking of goods, customers and employees in the least possible space. The idea of solidarity was at least tested out where people are trying to crawl over each other. The legislative proposal today is actually the beggar's answer to Brustad-bua. So far, there has been a lot of talk about not banning poverty. The Oslo Labour Party will ban poverty in those areas of the city where beggars can have the greatest hope of getting a few dollars, for example. on Frogner and Majorstua. What does the Council of State really think that someone will ban poverty first and foremost in those parts of the city where there are people who actually have a few dollars to spend?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3497	I would have been very careful to roll over people in deep distress. We see a phenomenon in Norwegian streets we would have liked to be in addition, but as it is important and proper of us to deal with it. There may be situations that create such regulatory challenges, that local authorities, in cooperation with local police, see it right to regulate some areas and make it difficult and illegal to beg there. There may also be times in the day that may require the same thing. Here it will be necessary for local authorities to go into discussion with the police, and then we will deal with this as quickly as we can in the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3502	I understand that it was a difficult question to answer, because many of us have perceived the proposal that comes from the government today, as a semi-ban. I noticed that the representative of SV Chaudhry was very clear that a ban was at least the wrong way to go. At the same time, we know that the Central Party has programmed that a person wants a ban. I noticed that the representative Jenny Klinge said something about a possible step towards a general ban. I wonder if the Council of State agrees with the representative of Klinge that this is a possible step towards a general ban, if she shares that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3507	In principle, I am concerned with the starting point that the Storting had in this room as late as 2005, that begging does not cause individual harm and should not be illegal as such. I am also concerned that a national ban can give the impression that there is access to more police resources than it really is, and the realistic approach must be that where there are regulatory challenges that require regulation – and it may be to delineate places from begging or times of the day from begging – there must be a pragmatic solution. But, as I said, let there be no doubt about what is my valuable starting point for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3512	We are not in doubt about what is the starting point of the council, because she started her post instead of saying that begging is undesirable. That's why some of us think it's a little funny that you still fix it. The representative of Other B. Werp asked a very timely question. There have been on the table two proposals from the Municipality of Oslo, which now see the possibility of doing something in view of the law to be adopted today, and the package presented by the government. These proposals from Oslo have also been duly sent to the Ministry of Justice and are probably well known to the Council of State. My question is: is it that what is now sketched as two solutions in Oslo, is actually within the local authorities, which the Council of State says you're occupied with, can decide to implement with the government's blessing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3522	There are many things that are suitable for amazement, but when I said that begging is undesirable, it was all other parties than the Advance Party I thought I would hear say that in that case it must be regulated. I do not see that there is an automatic link between saying that something is undesirable and regulating it with a ban. We also need to take care of the human dignity of those who beg in Oslo’s streets – and not just in Oslo, but throughout the country – and that is the background that we have also provided for support for social measures. So I've said that at this point in time it won't be right to rule out. It is also not the same as giving a prior consent to the solution suggested by Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3529	The cord shift is over. The President will draw attention to the fact that the written question institute still exists for a few weeks, for those who might be interested in it. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3536	In the light of the last line change, I must be allowed to say that expressing that begging as a phenomenon is undesirable does not mean that you do not want to help and help and make people get out of this problem. It's easy to say that it's about people. There are people standing on the streets -- they need to eat, they need to have a roof over their heads, they need a shower. So having different types of instruments, as I see the government actually has in this case, I think it's very affordable. I think the government deserves credit for not taking up a populist argument, which one might easily be tempted to do in such a debate. I'll do something that I rarely do. It's giving the previous government a big reward for what they wrote in Ot.prp. No 113 in September 2005, in the rationale for the abolition of the Law on Disposal, § 11. It's one of the best proposition texts I've read, and I think it has a lot of topicality today as well. It was simply economical and cautious to use the most stringent instrument in society, namely punishment, against the kind of social challenges we face here, and it was strongly argued that the principle of harm-reduction was to be applied in criminal law. It is when damage occurs that you should use it – damage to others. So it was the Bondevik government with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party that strongly argued that there are social instruments that you have to use. It is not right, as has been said in the debate, that this was a time when begging was almost completely gone. In Ot.prp. No 113 for 2004–2005 is on page 17: ‘The high standard of living in Norway has caused beggaring to be a small problem in recent decades, and Section 11 of the Societies Act has hardly been used. In recent years, however, the number of people who in major cities are asking passers-by for money has increased considerably, and the police have again begun to enforce the Law on Disposals § 11.» It was in that climate that the then government chose to take the rather bold step of pointing out that the instruments of criminal law are to be used with caution. We're going to use it where it's appropriate, where it reaches. I have to say that I think the same rules should apply to full today, and that one has to bet along other axes in order to get this to life, because most of us don't want to have beggars in the streets, first of all because at least we're trying to get into what it must be like for the people who live in such a situation. So I have to say that I've always found it paradoxical that the parties that are fighting today to end the criminalisation of buying sex are the parties that are currently proposing to criminalize it to beg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3552	I noticed that the previous speaker, our former Minister of Justice Storberget, had had to go to a proposition from 2005 to get inspiration. Then I think I can point to what a unanimous judicial committee now says – a committee that Storberget does not sit on. They state the following: ‘The Committee points out that begging appears to be more organised than in the past and that it can be aggressive and create insecurity. Police have shown coherence between travelling beggars and the practice of crime. This applies to crimes such as handicrafts, shoplifting, burglary and serious robbery. This creates unsafe communities. According to Europol, organised beggar groups may also be linked to trafficking in human beings.’ I think perhaps the Storberg should be interested in the insight and recognition that now exists, on the basis of messages from international, cooperating police organizations. Now I'm not going to spend more of my time on a former Minister of Justice, but going over to the present. The current Minister of Justice said that a ban will not solve poverty. But then the natural question of follow-up must be: What does the Minister of Justice think begging solves? If the Minister of Justice could use one or a half minutes of his next post to tell us what this phenomenon is solving, we could discuss whether it was worth the disadvantages. But if we agree that it doesn't solve anything, we're just left with the disadvantages. One thing is that there are disadvantages for people in this town and here in this country, for which the Minister of Justice might have the first responsibility, but there are also disadvantages for those who are forced, lured or held in a beggar role, without getting out of it. Then I have to say that I am quite upset when I hear that the Minister of Justice refers several times to the good experience from Bergen, because they have been obliged to report there. At the same time, in Bergen, people have had the biggest, most scandalous human trafficking case, which also involves using children for begging. Probably that's what got the state attorney in Hordaland, when he realized that the state council was out after there was no intervention, to recommend the state council to set the reporting obligation limit at 18 years. The Minister of Justice has replied to exempt them from reporting obligations under 18 years of age, so that they are not kept in order. Internationally, it is now becoming more competitive to be a child and beg in Norway than it has been before. I don't know if the Council of State is satisfied with the development. This is a government council that has abdicated from one of the most important fields that plague people, but which also plagues those who are involved, who will have to humble themselves in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3568	The representative, Skei Grande, held an article instead where she thought it was a frightening lack of knowledge that previously said – probably by me, because I was into it – that going to school in the home country is an alternative for kids who are here to beg. The Norwegian Judicial Committee visited Romania three to four years ago, as has been pointed out several times in the debate. There was one project leader for action against the space population who was responsible for a work on social measures and for the provision of schooling. She showed that it was difficult and sometimes frustrating to work on this. She was herself of the space people and told me that three-quarters of those who can be defined as spaces in Romania live as Romanians, or else, but that these don't speak so loud about it, because the culture and the life-set of the last quarter in a way fundamentally defines the whole group. This project leader in Romania pointed out exactly what I showed that it is not just about missing opportunities, but about some of them not accepting the opportunities they have for cultural reasons. This is a part of the large image. I do not claim that this is always the cause of the phenomenon of beggars traveling around, but I do not want to know that the representative Skei Grande drew up knowledge as a pathetic argument against others' views.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3579	Let me first join the representative Klinge's conclusion. When representatives from the Left claim that we are almost out of competence, I think it's an insult to more than me. My committee has been in Romania, and I have at least done what I can to put myself into the situation of some peoples in Europe. It's clear that it's multiple, but starting to talk about, and moving in, fascism, and indirectly accusing some people in this room of having drawn in that direction is a low measure in the debate, and it doesn't deserve the debate, either. That is the way it is, and I just want to make it clear to both Chaudhry and Skei Grande that I am not a member of the European Union. I am also not personally provoked by the fact that some of the different reasons are sitting and begging. I would also like to make it clear that I am not being frightened by someone begging. But I have a responsibility to prevent a development with a background of significant concerns, especially from the Norwegian and international police, which says that if we don't address these challenges that beggars are now bringing, and all the challenges that come to the wake of it, we will lose control. That is why I am in favour of a total ban – for the solution and the proposal that the government is now putting forward, cannot even answer today's Minister of Justice. Today's Minister of Justice must have the former Minister of Justice to explain what she means. Even then we get no answer. In my opinion, this should be a warning to the Minister of Justice of today. It explains the problems a party has with its proposals. Because that's right, what many people have asked questions about, on the one hand, prohibiting the market for these tigers where the income is to be collected. In that case, a direct attack is being made on what is involved in banning poverty. You can't define what the law means for the local authorities to do, you can't do it. And then POD is going to solve this in the last instance. I think I see it. I believe that today's Minister of Justice actually knows that this is not the solution, but must use the former Minister of Justice to convince the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3592	I think the proposition, as it stands, reveals very well what is obviously a rather strong internal disagreement in the government parties. It is, to a very good extent, but unfortunately it is also strongly influenced by the proposition in the case of vague signals. I think the representative of Werp's line is very good at substantiating it. This territorial and temporal prohibition, as described in the proposal, provides very little guidance. The only qualifying thing I can read from it is that it says that the conditions should be ‘appropriate’. It goes on to say that it is ‘the police who make a more detailed determination of the content of the regulation’. And I quote from the proposition: ‘This will help to make regulation a practical tool that can be adapted in a flexible way to local conditions, as they are at all times.’ This is what I can read from what the government means by this temporal and territorial prohibition. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice if there is any guidance beyond what I have just described, in what the government is promoting. And in concrete terms, what the representative, Mr Werp, said – which I believe is a proposal that the Minister of Justice knows well, where large parts of Oslo are taken into account, but which is an area-specific proposal – does that mean that one is within what is considered appropriate? It's at least flexible, I think we can agree on that, but is this something within the government's mind? We should be able to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3606	I have been invited to comment on many things and will try to take some for myself. I was asked what I think begging solves. I am careful to wonder why adults come here to Norway, but understand – with the social distress many are facing – that it cannot be excluded as a more attractive alternative than staying at home. We don't want begging, and we don't want to be erased to see children begging, and have been very clear that this will not be accepted. The Police Statutes have a specific procedure. When proposals are made, they shall be evaluated and approved by the Directorate of Police, and here municipalities will have the opportunity to submit proposals in the usual way. I understand that there are several people who would have wanted a preliminary commitment from the Minister of Justice on what is acceptable or not. However, it must be due to a local assessment and will not be right to comment on my part now. I understand that the representative Sandberg might want a reaction to his outcome against me as well as against the representative Storberget. He won't. But I can assure the representative Tetzschner that of course I have not adjourned. The government has now provided a basis that can help municipalities to make good judgements in the light of the challenges they see themselves having. We're facilitating pragmatic solutions. That this can provoke the Right, which here in the city cooperates with the Left and Christian People's Party and in the practical political life has actually been revealed that they also have problems in imposing a beg ban – if they wanted it here in the city. I just want to take note of that and not comment, in addition to that, they have to find good solutions for even here in the city. The solution is local.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3617	I noticed that we did not get a single argument from the Minister of Justice as to why begging should be a contribution to solving anything. And then the Minister of Justice won't speculate on the more detailed reasons why people are coming, which is probably that they prefer to be here over there. You could say that's behind all the movement, all the migration. It is even behind the simplest holiday trip or tour in the store. It is also not in a particular style with the introduction, where the Stortinget was taught that these were people in the deepest distress. It is a very complex group – I see that Skei Grande is not present here – and it is also not as ethnically united as any of the participants in the debate believe. If we agree that begging does not solve any problem, or you have only vague notions of what it might lead to for the benefit of some, it is at least documented, not least from the Police Directorate and from the police departments most concerned, that the effect of this ban is that it opens up to the abuse of personal addiction – typically children – and that this is also a pleasure for intermediaries. And it's probably not exactly those who should have their human dignity at the very top of the agenda. When the Council of State is so uncertain about the benefits of this, and when there are effects that are so well-documented unfortunate, both for those who come, and for those who are plagued by it in Norway, it must also worry the Council of State that we in Norway retain the right to open our spaces and streets to be the arena of human trafficking and to exploit the cold water of unwanted activity. There has been no progress in the debate so far, but it is not possible for all EEA citizens to ‘flow freely’ within the EEA. They can be tourists, they can study, they can look for work, and they can – more positively – get work. But by maintaining begging as a legitimate phenomenon, it actually becomes a legal entrance into Norwegian society. There will be a wrong basis for entry, and that is the basis on which we have been sceptical about the little-targeted proposals of the Council of State, have questioned this debate and have had alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3626	The councils said that she got an invitation to comment on things. No, that's not what the Council of State got. The Council of State received specific questions from the representatives of Werp and Syversen to explain in concrete terms how a law should be understood. The municipality of Oslo has asked the ministry to get a clarification. They didn't. The Municipality of Oslo then asks the Judicial Committee for an explanation of how a law should be understood. The Committee cannot give that, and we are here in a debate where the municipalities and the police and others are going to read the preliminary work. So you delegate the political responsibility for directing the municipalities and the judiciary to a directorate. In all the rudeness – excuse me for saying this – you can point to the Municipality of Oslo, which is struggling to understand how to handle a law. In fact, it's still the Stortinge that adopts the laws of the country, and it's the government that exercises them and makes sure that the Stortinge has a decision-making basis that's good enough, so that the judiciary and others who are going to deal with the laws afterwards have an opportunity at least to understand what you're going to decide. This is a complete disclaimer, complete ambiguity, and as the representative Syversen said, it is very flexible. If this is to be the way to carry out legislative activities gradually, it should be interesting. So I suggest that the next project that the government is trying to do is propose the law of peace on earth. And then you can always figure out how to implement it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3635	It was not my intention in previous speeches to ask today's Minister of Justice for an outcome against the former Minister of Justice. My point was to find out that there was a big disagreement there, because I note that today's Minister of Justice actually wants begging not to exist. I would like to quote from a suggestion where today's Minister of Justice says: ‘The government will beggars out of Norway.’ Tigging is unwanted. Then I understand that now you try a bill that you think gives the result that the beggars leave Norway. This government then believes that poverty can indirectly be banned, even if it has nothing to do with banning poverty or social distress. That's what this is about. I may be wrong, but now I hope that today's Minister of Justice and the former Minister of Justice may clarify whether they agree or disagree. When it comes to the questions that the Minister of Justice is unable to answer, they say to the municipalities around: Try to get out – try different ways to regulate this, and then we get POD to decide. But it's important that you help the beggars, because otherwise you won't get approval. So everything in the proposition and in the argument collides, and there's nothing left, because you can't answer it. Actually, you can focus on our big cities, where you have these nodes and where you think the market is. But there are many small places around Norway today that also face a challenge of begging. In fact, this present proposal will lead to a total ban in some small municipalities that have only one node, which has only one market place, so that there is only one place to sit with the cup and beg. So really, you put a total ban on some places, while opening up to zones where there's no market. This is what becomes so unclear, especially as regards what the representative Tetzschner deals with in relation to what is in the EEA Agreement and the entry basis. Is it that we actually open up a larger entry base by not getting to a total ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3652	At the request of the advertised next speaker, I think the president must make a change. I understood it so that the representative Syversen wanted to wait until after the councillor Faremo?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3655	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3660	Then we will probably save time by asking the question before answering it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3663	In line with the proposition, I get to say thank you for the flexibility here. The councils really won't answer, and it's her free. But I might have expected on the question of what it is you've thought of as a framework for this intrusive regulation you now agree that at least you could say something about a certain consistency between objectives and means, that is, what you're proposing, should be in proportion to what you want to achieve with the intervention, or to speak in the language of the kiss: the principle of proportionality. But even that would not be confirmed by the Council of State. So I expect at least that you're going to deal with the normal legal principles when you evaluate this. Or is it so flexible that it can also be set aside?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3672	There must be no misunderstanding. What I commented on when there was an outcome was that Sandberg could not wait for any outcome from my side against him. The government proposed a comprehensive plan to limit begging. Tigging is undesirable in Norway. But we cannot, however, prohibit poverty, and this is the background for the government giving municipalities increased opportunities to limit begging, too, while, as I said, we will lower the threshold for expulsion of EEA citizens who commit crime. Issues of targeted action have been mentioned. It is important to keep begging separate from the fight against crime, although we see that crime also occurs among beggars. There we can record very joyful numbers. We have a decline in profitability, for example. in the capital measured in the first quarter of this year against the first quarter of last year which is notable. We have a decline in various forms of crime, which is a good reason to rejoice, and which shows that police resources are being used for what they are supposed to do, namely to combat crime, and that a national beggar ban can trigger demands and wish for a resource use in the police that the Minister of Justice could not defend in relation to the police's other tasks, has been important in discussing what is a right solution to propose in the situation. I'm asked, what will be the emphasis when the Directorate of Police gets proposals, for example. to regulation in the law of the Oslo municipality? In general, it must of course be said that there is a need to pay particular attention to the assessment by municipalities of precisely the regularity and the places and times that should be subject to any restrictions. Where a municipality considers that regulation should apply to the entire centre area, e.g.: Because it is difficult to define individual streets in front of others in a central area, I say that there has to be a great deal of emphasis on how the municipality assesses such a relationship. This is also part of the background to public transport, purchasing centres and, for example, public transport. door-to-door begging is something that needs to be assessed in concrete terms in the relevant municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3681	As a member of the presidency, I myself have been involved in asking the committee chairmen to do what they can to limit the debate. That is why I have not allowed myself to be provoked; I have kept away from the debate. But I see that the opposition politicians have been dominant in the pulpit, and the only thing they're concerned about is how the law is to be implemented. Not one person has answered the question: How is Gina going to get money for the milk of her nine-month-old baby? How are the beggars who serve, or get, money for a meal or two, going through the day? The only thing you're asking for is a plan of action against beggars who commit crime. Is there anyone asking for a plan of measures to combat poverty? Not one – not one from the opposition parties has asked for it. So the question is, where should the focus be from the opposition politicians? Only on how to fight the beggars? Or should we also fight what is the basis for begging, namely poverty? The representative Tetzschner is kind of in the lead. The representative Tetzschner sometimes has to try to sit in another person's position and ask: why is this woman sitting down on Karl Johan's street in bad weather, in rainy weather, etc., asking for 5 kroner? Why do people do it if they have an alternative? If they had a single option, why would they downgrade themselves? Why would they sell the whole self-respect? It is these parties – and in particular the representative Tetzschner – who believe that this is how we can combat trafficking in human beings, by imposing a ban. It's the same representative, Tetzschner, and his party, who was against the Sex Purchases Act, because they thought that in that area there could not be such a law to combat trafficking in human beings, where there is evidence that there are intermediaries, there is evidence that people in need are being exploited, mostly women, and there are intermediaries who are making money on it. Trafficking in human beings is clearly documented there. The same representative Tetzschner is against that law. So the question is, what are the police supposed to do? The limited police resources we have are to be used to combat trafficking in human beings? Should they be used to combat drugs? Should they be used to combat money laundering? Are they to be used to combat recriminalism? Should they be used to combat violence against women and children? Should they be used to combat sexual harassment? Or are they to be used to fight beggars? Is that what the debate is in the Norwegian storeroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3697	After almost four years at Stortinget, you might think that posts from the previous speaker did not cause a response, but I'll let myself affect a little when the representative Chaudhry asks for an action plan. I would then like to draw the representative's attention to the fact that, in a motion for a resolution tabled by 96 S, which Mr Chaudhry is going to vote in favour, one of the proposals is that we are asking for an action plan to combat begging, so that the representative himself will contribute to the vote. So a reflection around the previous article. I think it is right to ask Chaudhry, but insofar as the other government parties, too, to elaborate on the difference between the imaginary Gina if a local government, in compliance with the law that is passed today, decides that Gina is not allowed to beg in the centre area of that municipality, with the voice of the representative Akhtar Chaudhry. Then I would like to know what the difference is, when the practical consequences for Gina are still the same in terms of the decision SV is voting for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3704	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3707	The representative Chaudhry inaugurated us into his thoughts about taking the word or not taking the word. I hope that next time he lets the doubt benefit us others. But since I got so many references, I would like to have said the following, because the representative Chaudhry's contributions were clearly marked by the fact that begging is a strategy for national and international social cohesion: I don't see it that way, it doesn't look right. And worse than that, which I was also in my previous post: this maintains people in stereotyped roles. To the extent that someone is trafficked, trafficked, to this, it holds them in its sacrificial positions, and then, of course, it ensures the revenues of the intermediaries, with great approval from the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3712	Without wanting to go on the debate, I just want to make a few points. One is that you also have from the opposition here – I noticed, among other things. Ulf Leirstein’s articles — underlined that there is an advantage to local residents, and wished to have local access rights. This is a framework for designing local police regulations and applying for their approval. The Council of State says in its statement that it is natural that there is a dialogue between the municipalities and the police on the areas to be affected, and factors that may be relevant to the assessment include: in the case of high-trafficking areas, areas where the accumulation of beggars constitutes a significant problem of order, and whether it is appropriate in the light of the specific orderly situation of the municipality. It's on the verge of, for example, traffic hubs and public transport are among the conditions to which specific challenges may be attached. When the Council of State also answers Mr. Werp that it is not right to exclude the Oslo proposal, I think that the natural next step in this process is that there are proposals for new police regulations from the municipalities that are being dealt with in the Directorate of Police, that we see what practices are developing, and that we get a basis for gradually evaluating whether the law we have created is working as intended, or whether improvements are needed. There are obviously important things to try out there, as the debate also shows, but I would like the parties that want regulation to see that this also provides opportunities to develop a practice, develop measures that can help the problems that many of us agree to exist, and then we have a starting point in what we hope to adopt here today. There's a way to go here, and I think that way has to be turned up now in interaction with the municipalities, as the work on police regulations locally has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3720	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12 and Case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3734	I would like briefly to thank Stortinget for the good cooperation in clarifying this House of Law now in a week's time. It is a matter that comes at short notice to the Storting because of international negotiations because it is an international operation, where Norway has taken on commitments based on cooperation in NATO and on a mission from the United Nations. It has also ensured that torture is not carried out, that human rights are respected and that prisoners entrusted to Seychelles cannot be transferred to a third country without having been informed by Norway. So there is a reassuring framework around the bill that our ships involved in piracy in the Gulf of Aden will be able to transfer prisoners to Seychelles. I am pleased that we have a unanimous position on this, which we quickly arrived at in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3743	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3757	Very briefly, we see in the committee that there is once again a positive trend in the sample sizes. Although things get more and more complicated, we see that this is going in the right direction. Then there is a call to the Council of State from the Committee, where the Committee points to different arrangements for disadvantaged people, where it was thought that perhaps one should clean up at an earlier time, and the members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right point out that we also had a comment in 2009. Now the entire committee has agreed that there is a general bias in the procedures for compensation in the municipalities, and that this is corrected. We hope and believe that the Council of State will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3764	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3778	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes each to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. With 3 minutes for each batch and 45 minutes in total, that means that many government councils have to ask for the word if we're going to use the 45 minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3789	You can ask for more three-minute posts! During this ageing period, the Stortinget has discussed the victims’ compensation scheme several times, most recently twice in 2012. Today we are to decide on a proposal from individual members of the Progress Party. The proposal for a representative is based on a request that the new limit of 60 G be retroactive for all older cases, and that the State should advance compensation for all victims of violence, including those who do not receive compensation from the Office for Victim Compensation. It is in this country that laws do not normally have retroactive effect. When this was done after 22 July 2011, it was because one would not treat the terrorists and other victims of violence differently. As the Storting then saw it, it would have been unfortunate. Therefore, this last change had an impact on the whole of 2011. The retroactive effect should be used with great caution and with the shortest possible periods. It will also be contrary to previous legislative practices and will be able to put pressure on many areas in the future. The maximum optional victim compensation has been changed many times without retroactive effect. This may seem unimaginable to many, and it was probably noticeable in 2001, as the upper limit increased from DKK 200,000 to 20 G. In 2009, the upper limit increased to 40 G, so in 2011 the upper limit was increased to 60 G. It is not favorable for anyone to open old and resolved matters every time a law change is accepted. I also want to remind you that there was a lot of agreement last year to follow the general principle that laws are not being given retroactive effect, but that it is the time of damage that is decisive. I don't see the need to solve this question now, as Right wants. That question was given wide coverage last year in connection with the treatment of Prop. 65 L for 2011-2012. When it comes to the question that the State should advance compensation for all victims of violence, I refer to the reference in the clause where this was also carefully assessed in the context of the legislative changes after 22 July. This work is in good hands, and I refer to the letter from the Council of State and the law of 11 January 2013 No. 3 about the central government collection centre. I refer to the setting and recommendation, and I expect that the minority will do their own thing for their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3812	The rapporteur presented the debates we have had on this subject. Recently, we had a lot of discussion about Meldning. St. 15. I will take a little story: after working a lot with various victims, I have had contact with Kari. Kari was subjected to assault and abuse from the age of 4 to the age of 15. One family member was convicted, got 7.5 years old, and Kari was awarded almost 2 million. NOK i in compensation. Everyone in this room knows that the amount of both compensation and punishment means that this girl has been subjected to terrible things. She's today 100 pst. completed. She's going to a psychologist on a regular basis. Life is ruined. But in addition, Kari will now have to live with the fact that every month, through the SI system now adopted and launched in June, she will be reminded of her case over years, for years. The SI system as a principle as it exists is okay enough, and it is very good that it is now being implemented. But I should like to draw attention to the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 1st@item: inlistbox If this girl, this Kari, could have paid out the amount that she was awarded, at once, as the state now says through the SI system that they will take responsibility for debt collection, we will first get less bureaucracy and – point 2 – she will be able to put the matter behind. She'll be able to start a new life instead of being reminded of this. Now I do not consider how, over the years after the matter was up, she has had to run after the money, have had to find out where he is working, and in what way he has done black work to avoid that it was possible to pay him, so she would get the money. Once again, I ask that the government parties consider proposal No. 1 as a solution. It's no longer expensive. If you look at the indexation relative to dollars, one actually would rather save money by being able to do everything in one piece. Finally, victim care: I think I've said many times that we have criminal care, but we don't have proper victim care. There are so many people who are struggling out there, falling between two chairs, who are not being seen and not being taken care of. I ask that we get ahead of ourselves in this. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3827	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3830	All parties are committed to improving the situation of victims of violence. Although some of us do not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party today, that does not mean that we are in favour of an unworthy system of compensation for victims of violence. All parties have shares in both what is good and what is not yet working so well. I want to say a little about victim care: I cannot understand with my best will why the government has not yet followed up the Storting's decision on self-care, which the Right Party and the Progress Party pointed out in the debate on violence in close relations, and which we are promoting over and over again. It's a unanimous big deal that thinks it's important. There is not a topic here today, primarily, but well-functioning victim care would probably contribute to the faster progress of matters and themes that matter to victims of violence — including the compensation of victims and the way in which it is to be organised. Right wants the possibilities to be explored as to whether the current regime, where the victim is entitled to up to 60 G in compensation, can be applied retroactively. It should also be examined whether to set a date back in time for the promotion of the requirement of up to 60 G in replacement. There is also a need to investigate whether the State should forge compensation for all victims of violence, including those not awarded compensation by the Victim Compensation Office. I want to end with what I started with: the question of national victim care is not a small question. That's a big question. Earlier today, we discussed how to improve the content of the settlement. You've got a whole bunch of detectives thinking about it. In the case of victims of violence getting better content in their lives, after they have been subjected to violence for a short or longer period of time and have been harmed for life, the question of national victim care is, in fact, a question of that. If, in the future, we can have the same commitment from some in the hall here to the content of the lives of victims of violence as they had in talking about the content of criminal care for those who had committed crime against them, I think we'd come very far. And then the majority parties here should make sure to hang on the skirt of their own state council and make sure that there is progress here. It is a unanimous big thing that wants it, and I cannot understand with my best will why it has not been put in place. Finally, I refer to the Right suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3845	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3848	I need to start a little in general: not so rarely is it said from different teams that laws and regulations aim more at protecting and helping the rapist than at caring for the rights of the innocent victim of the violence. But through the compensation of victims of violence, the position of the victim is strengthened, and the more concrete measures we are discussing today would strengthen it for even more. It is also important to place responsibility where it belongs when the violence has been committed. The individual perpetrator of the violence must be prepared and punished for having committed a criminal offence. And as far as possible, the innocent victim must receive the compensation and upliftment that restores the quality of life to the victim. This is also the rapist's responsibility, and he does not in any way have to get away easily. We know, however, that many perpetrators do not have the means to pay compensation, or they are unknown. Therefore, it is a State task to ensure that the victim does not become the losing party. Through social security benefits and compensation for violence, the State must ensure that the injured person is restored to a reasonably good quality of life. It's in this context that we stress that compensation is a right for the victim. It's not hard to find stories. The representative Michaelsen had some examples, and we've heard a lot of stories about people who have either lost or been injured and who have not received the compensation they are entitled to. Fortunately, legislation has improved many times in recent years. The state has to pay the sum, and then they get to collect the amount of money from the convicted person. Today we are discussing proposals that will make more retrospective demands. Christian People's Party fully supports proposal No. One, we are also voting in favour of proposal No. 2 and we want to support proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox I want to make it clear that it's often not the large amounts that it's talking about, but as the representative Michaelsen was also about, it's people who are reminded of the grievances, who often find it hard to get ahead, because they have to take care of the collection themselves. We believe it is a good proposal to pay compensation to those who have been affected, but who have not received compensation. I will use the last half minute to stress that the Christian People's Party also fully supports those who have been involved with it with a national victim care. We believe that victim care, like criminal services, could be an important part of developing even better practices, guidelines and conditions for those affected by violence. We support proposal No. 1, 2 and 6 in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3867	It is important to ensure compensation for victims of violence and to make the system as fair as possible, as proposed by the proposers. That is why the Stoltenberg II Government has substantially amended the Act on the Compensation of Victims three times and strengthened the rights of the victims. However, I cannot support the proposals that are being debated here today. I see proposal No. 1 as a wish that the limit of 60 G and all other provisions of the Act on the Compensation of Victims be given unlimited retroactive effect. The clear starting point is that laws do not give retroactive effect. Prior to the raising of the ceiling on 30 March 2012, the issue of retroactive effect was carefully assessed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and then debated here in the United Kingdom. If the provision were to take effect from 1975, very many cases would have to be reopened. In the majority of cases, there is no judgment, and it would be difficult — often impossible — to obtain the necessary documentation to make the claims calculations. The legislative changes took effect on 1 January 2011. There were no cases dealt with after this date, where the then limit of 40 G had become significant. The victims’ compensation scheme has been amended on a number of points and it is difficult to identify issues for which the changes are relevant. If the provisions were to be applied retroactively, I would believe that all cases have to be reviewed since 1975. A large proportion of the money the state spends on victims of violence would have gone to proceedings over payments. I don't think there's a development that someone's earned. Furthermore, it would be difficult for the victims to move forward if the cases were reopened each time the law was amended. If you want to be offensive, you have to accept that a limit is set when changes apply from. Proposal No. 2, that the State should foreshadow compensation for all victims of violence, even for those who are not awarded compensation for the victims of violence, appears to me to be somewhat unclear. Indeed, the compensation scheme for victims is precisely based on the fact that the State pre-empts compensation for victims and takes over the claim for damages. I stress that a person who is awarded compensation from the perpetrator of a court will receive compensation for the victims of violence. If the representatives believe that there are no conditions at all for compensation for victims of violence, it is a proposal that I find difficult to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3882	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3885	It was almost two years since a unanimous decision that we wanted the government to look at the establishment of a victim care facility. I have asked two concrete written questions to the Council of State about exactly the same thing. A unanimous committee has entered into the budgetary procedure and various representative proposals, which we have agreed on, that we want it to be assessed. And then I just have to figure out that I don't fully understand it. Had we had this consensus just six months ago, I would have known that the Council of State needs more time, for this is a far field. But now it's almost two years. And if you had only partially grasped the creation of e.g. At least the Council of State could explain that you are on your way. But not so much has happened. What does the Council of State think you should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3893	This is the work done in a thorough manner in the Ministry, and it is the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress that has been entrusted with monitoring measures and offers to victims of violence in Norway. They deliver their report to the ministry before the summer, and we will assess it on the basis of that information, for example. a crime-sacrifice authority should be established. I'm starting from the needs of the victims, and also what works well today. It is not given at this time that the best solution will be to set up a separate body, but I will in no way conclude in the opposite way even before we have reviewed NKVTS’ monitoring and investigated the matter properly and in a good way. Here we also get valuable information, for example. from Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3900	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3916	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes each to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3925	This is a classic case where the Progress Party promotes classic proposals and sees that the proposals are supported only by the minority in the Committee. That is why, as rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to avoid commenting on the matter and the proposals. I believe that the representatives of the Progress Party will justify their proposals immediately. As a member of the Socialist Left Party, and a representative of that party, I still find it appropriate to comment on the proposals. Let me first say that I am pleased that a unanimous judicial committee, of course except for the Advancement Party, and I expect a unanimous increase, once again except for the Advancement Party, will reject the proposals. The Committee does not even consider it appropriate to include the proposals in the minutes. It's a signal I hope the Advance Party takes. Let me make it clear: like SVs and Muslims, I find it templateed that lucky garments, such as niqab and jars, are used in our open, tolerant and inclusive societies. If there is a coercion behind this use, it must be controlled, and I know that it is. From the pulpit I will send the following message to the men who force their women to state their right to dress as they wish: this is a lost strategy. Neither the women, our open, democratic society, nor Islam are behind this. It's a tradition that's condemned to die. That being said, a proposal to ban how individuals should dress is a violation of our democratic way of thinking. To force people to dress in a certain style, to refuse them to dress as they please, and to make guidelines and laws that prevent people from realizing themselves belong to societies that we do not want to compare or copy at all. Such a thought is undemocratic, inconsistent, and old - fashioned. The Progress Party should recognise that fewer and fewer Nordics are concerned with this narrow policy and would rather use conversation and communication to promote equality and equivalency for women with a minority background. I am pleased that a unanimous increase, all except for the Advancement Party, will reject the proposals – and here is in line with the general population.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3940	First, I just have to say that it is a little difficult to achieve a unanimous increase when the second largest group, the Progress Party, wants to implement this proposal. But then I will give praise to the representative Chaudhry and the Muslim Chaudhry to be ready in his speech to the men who want to enforce coercion against women. It says respect. When we promote this proposal, of course, it is for several reasons, as is also evident from the background to the proposals. Garments such as burkas and niqab make identification difficult and may be perceived to have a female-repressive profile that prevents integration. The issue of successful clothing needs to be addressed both in principle, security, solidarity, integration and religious issues, as this can be seen as several aspects of the same issue. We've considered this thoroughly when we've fallen into what we've done here. Then I record that in a number of areas, the Committee agrees with the proposers on the challenges we face in everyday life. We also record that it is not just the Progress Party in Norway that has taken up this debate. This debate is taking place in a number of countries in Europe, and a number of countries have also taken decisions. A decision in France is inter alia: to be assessed, in relation to whether this could be a breach of the EMK. At least we're waiting to see what the EMK will have to do about what France has done. This means that derogations have also been made in Norway, by the introduction of bans, and by the acceptance of bans, in some institutions. If this is the case that a total ban would break with EMK, I would at least think that the individual bans made, whether in Denmark, in France or Turkey, or in institutions in Norway, also had to be as much breach of the EMK. We record that we will lose this fight again, but I don't think the debate is over for that reason. I believe that the debate will come up again at regular intervals, and that perhaps in the end you will see that, for reasons of integration and in the interests of the work against the repression of women, the proposals of the Progress Party will fall. I am promoting the proposals contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3955	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3958	A law that regulates the individual's dress will mean something new in Norwegian legislation. If you're going to adopt something that far-reaching, you might be able to look at it in relation to the extent of the problem you're trying to solve. The number of women we're talking about here is very low. Existing legislation has the necessary means to control identity, and in the event of coercion being used, it is therefore punishable by the law in force. In addition, the local examples we have seen show that this can also be handled locally. In terms of integration, it is important to remember that bans can have the opposite effect, namely to reduce integration and more segregation. If the intention is to prevent the coercion and pressure and repression of women, the interventions must be directed at those who oppress, those who press, and those who force. This could soon be a debate on the Progress Party. I think that is really a rather uninteresting debate. The more interesting it is to discuss what will be the most important thing to help them, regardless of whether you think you are in favour of or against the ban on cans or lucky garments. In previous debates – not so far – the majority have been accused of almost passively leaning on the EMK and the Constitution. But the EMK and the Basic Law are really pretty cool to have, because they're made with reasonable thought and calm, and there were a lot of funny people who put together and thought about, among other things. what would be the consequence if one did not have a certain type of regulation as protected minorities. What you know is that if you start to relax on that attitude, and the alternating majority in the affect takes decisions after decisions on individual minorities, there's finally no room left for any of us. Of course, I choose to see the representative of Chaudhry positively when he says that it is important to get together and dialogue. But those with whom we are not going to have an affair and dialogue are, of course, the men who oppress women, who also oppress some men – it is both men and women who are being coerced – and people who provide sexual mutilation and violence. If someone calls it culture, they're wrong. It's not culture, it's culture. It has no right, and it has no place in Norwegian society. I want to say that tomorrow we're going to celebrate the voting anniversary, and I think it's a little sad that of all the women who go up and down on Karl Johan and in other parts of the city on March 8, there are a lot of extremely quiet when it comes to the women who are subjected to the worst possible abuses day after day. I think there's a lot of luxury feminism going on. I hope that, in the future, we will be able to have a debate in which everyone participates, and that you are not just satisfied with what you have received, and you are working for quotas, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3977	One of the pillars of the rule of law is freedom of expression. As others have noted, in this proposal there is also an uncertainty about whether or not a person will actually break it. Freedom of expression is closely linked to freedom of religion, which I believe is very important in a democratic society. That is why we in the Christian People’s Party believe that the proposals available here today are wrong. As many people have been involved, we believe that instead, one must take a strong distance from the female repression that one sees as an example by coercion — or indirect coercion — to use lucky garments. One has to find tools that can help to avoid this happening. This is actually a proposal that goes into the range of proposals that I think bommer a little bit. There have been proposals to ban hijab, there have been proposals to ban religious symbols, there have been proposals to ban religious schools, there have been proposals to ban grunting crosses, etc., etc. An important element of these questions is, as I said, connected to religious freedom. For the Christian People's Party, freedom of faith, to express their faith, is important. Thus, it is not said that I acknowledge that the use of burka or niqab is religion. But the interesting thing about freedom of expression and human rights is that it's actually about raising a minority's rights – that's what they say. But I'm glad that there are so many people who choose to take a great distance from that coercion, or indirectly coercion, that's to oblige someone to wear lucky clothes. There is a problem of equality, and legal instruments should be used to solve this. It's interesting to raise Voltaire in such a context, when he says: I deeply disagree with what you say, but to my death will defend your right to say what you say. It's really an important point that one can fundamentally disagree with something and take a strong distance from it, but one doesn't have to forbid everything. In the proposal for a representative, I see that it is argued with certainty in public space, and then one refers to a run in Paris in February 2010. I think it's an interesting argumentation method, because you can find a lot of other things that have been used in a fence, without necessarily having to forbid it. When I first come up with the less fundamental argument, I see that it is assumed that in France there are about 1,900 women who use lucky garments, in Denmark there are three, and in the Netherlands they said there are fifty out of one million. If you're transferring it to Norwegian, maybe there's a handful or two here. This is not to say that it is not important for them, but it means that other measures must be taken first – before one discusses this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e3992	The use of garments that completely or partially hide the face of the public space raises many difficult questions. Like the committee, I believe that such clothing is an expression of a human vision and a woman's vision that violates central values in our society. Burka, niqab and other lucky garments hamper communication with others and pose challenges in education, working life and social life. In some cases, it also prevents the identification of the person. However, I believe that a ban is not the right way to go to counteract the use of such clothing and to avoid women being forced to use it. A general ban could conflict with our obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights and other international conventions, as several speakers have pointed out. In any case, in my view, there is no pressing need for a ban. Firstly, the issue seems to affect – as the representative Roppstad was about – very few people. Secondly, we have a law that facilitates practical solutions where there is a need to see people's faces to identify them. Furthermore, we have the opportunity to prohibit such clothing in specific situations, for example: in educational situations, and in cases where women are forced to wear durable garments, this will be affected by the provisions of the Criminal Code on coercion. I think the most important thing we can do to avoid women being pushed into using lucky clothes, or even choosing to use them, is to facilitate their inclusion in society in all areas. Overall, today we have legislation that allows prohibition in specific situations, which facilitates the implementation of the necessary ID control, and which allows us to find solutions based on mutual tolerance and respect more than a general prohibition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4003	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4017	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4024	I would like to begin by commending the Christian People's Party for proposing changes that limit the growth of executive wages in limited liability companies. It is important that we turn all the stones in order to find ways to reduce top managers' wages, precisely because in recent years we have seen that the growth in management wages for some groups has been significantly higher than for employees. However, there is an overall committee which opposes the proposal to introduce binding shareholder voting on directors' remuneration in limited liability companies. Over the last few years, a significant simplification for Norwegian business has been carried out through the removal of the audit obligation, the reduction of share capital requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises and the simplification of the Share Act. It's important, when we impose new laws or tasks on business, that we ask ourselves: does this city want more work, more bureaucracy, and will this have huge costs for business? With regard to these proposals, I believe that the answer to both of these questions is yes. In addition to cost and additional work, it will address practical implementation challenges. In the case of companies with many shareholders, it would be impractical to convene the general meeting each time one is required to employ a person with a leading position in the company. The Committee considers that the proposal goes too far in restricting the company's freedom of action. It is important that the Governing Board has the necessary room for action and flexibility to negotiate pay and employment conditions which are deemed necessary to get the right person in place and that the recruitment process does not take too long. The second paragraph of Section 6-2 of the Share Act states that the Executive Director is employed by the Board of Directors, unless the statutes of the company state that this is to be done by the general meeting. The proposal of the Christian People's Party raises a fundamental question of competence and responsibility between the board and the general meeting. The Management Board is responsible for the management of the company and under the law responsible for ensuring the proper organisation of the business. The general meeting may lay down general guidelines for employment and it shall be able to give instructions on pay conditions. Furthermore, the Share Act does not have specific rules for the addition of other senior executives. It is governed by the general organisational rules of the law. This is why we cannot support the proposal, even though it itself has good intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4045	Businessman Thomas Minder won a referendum in Switzerland to introduce a binding shareholder vote on directors' salaries in the country's limited liability company. 68 pst. by the voters of the conservative and nutritious Switzerland said yes to Minder’s proposal. Pension funds are required to vote in the interests of their members and to publish their voting rights. The background to the proposal is the trend towards increasingly higher management salaries. These wage levels are increasingly less legitimate in the population, both in Switzerland and internationally. The conclusion of Minder’s proposal was not diminished by the decision by the pharmaceutical company Novartis this winter to provide Chairman Daniel Vasella with a final package of 430 million. kr. The vote will take place at international level. Several countries are now considering the introduction of binding shareholder voting on management salaries. We should also do that here in Norway. The wages of Norwegian business leaders are quite far from the levels of Switzerland or the OECD average. But there has also been a strong growth in management wages: they rose twice as quickly as usual in the decade up to 2007, according to Iver Bragelien, first amannuensis at the Norwegian School of Commerce. The second major trend in the last 20 years, including in Norway, is an increasingly widespread use of variable wage components as bonuses. The growth of management pay is worrying for all those who want to avoid a society with greater differences. We have an ever-increasing pay gap between workers in Norway and the rest of the world because of our petroleum-powered economy. Therefore, it is more important than ever to avoid strong growth in management wages that could undermine the idea of moderate wage-fixing and weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises abroad. Today, remuneration of directors of Norwegian limited liability companies is determined by the general meeting, while remuneration and remuneration for senior executives are determined by the board. The proposers believe that shareholders should also be directly influenced by the salaries and remuneration of senior executives. By shifting the final approval of salaries out of the narrow circle of directors and into the general meetings, shareholders are given increased influence and the growth of management salaries can be reduced. Strengthening the power of the stock is also really in principle. The shareholders own the company. The company’s board and administrative management should serve them, not the opposite. The British news magazine The Economist supports the proposal and believes it makes sense, precisely because it strengthens shareholders' influence. So here, the self-declared liberals in The Economist are more progressive than the red-green parties in this room, who wash their hands and seem to be satisfied with the leadership pay gap. That should give the red-green representatives reason for reflection. I might have to bring up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4066	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, has then addressed the two proposals that are available in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4082	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4091	The Industry Committee has examined the report. St. 23 on the digital agenda for Norway. ICT for growth and value added. The purpose of this Communication was to present how Norway as a society exploits the opportunities for ICT in innovation and value creation. The description of the situation in many sectors is comprehensive, but the notification is passive in terms of what one can do and the areas in which one can do something. The Committee agrees on an important premise, namely that we have a high cost level, that we need to compensate by increasing our productivity, and that increased use of ICT is one of the key instruments. But the premise is not followed up enough in the message itself. It does not address the vast untapped potential of Norwegian business – not least in the Norwegian public sector – for innovation, productivity growth, competitiveness and value-added through the proper use of ICT. Instead of simply describing the existing situation, the notification should have been more offensive in terms of how a coordinated ICT policy could deliver efficiency gains in public and thus positive business spin-offs. It's just that the Riksrevision has pointed out. Such coordination measures will be the most effective in improving the efficiency of the public sector, primarily in the cross-sectoral interaction between levels of government. For further simplification work in Norway — which is already lagging behind — and for a more user-friendly public sector, this is central. The opposition has made a number of proposals in recent years on simplifications that require a better use of ICT. This, together with centralisation of reporting, would contribute strongly to further simplification. So I would like to stress how important it is that further use of raw data is available, without restrictions on information and without time-consuming and complicated procedures in connection with the rights. This applies in particular to spatial data and property information. There is a significant potential for increased value creation and, in particular, for better public services. However, the notification has no plans or assessments of how or when, for example, raw data from the State Maps and statistics from the SSB can be made available to all, and not least at a price level that is low and predictable. Many have pointed this out, not least in the hearings prior to the work on the notification. ICT solutions in the health sector are the biggest challenge we face. The sector is characterised by local solutions, lack of standardisation and poor compatibility with other health care solutions. I address the proposal we are making in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4108	Then the representative Svein Flätt mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4111	This message focuses on users at different levels, organisations, public agencies and businesses. There is no doubt that the ICT industry has a major impact on society's overall ability to adapt to these developments. The government focuses on the value creation of this industry. In a survey of 2 000 managers, 76 pst correspond. the development of new ICT solutions is becoming increasingly important for the competitiveness of its own industry. This development contributes to simplifications in both the private and public sectors and is tantamount to addressing the business announcement made by the Minister of Industry last week, which is very clear that the administrative costs of the enterprises are to be reduced by 10 billion. kr by 2015. One of the main contributions to simplification is the conversion to electronic reporting and the development of good electronic services aimed at business. A concrete measure is electronic dialogue with the employer, EDAG, which is a major commitment to the further development of Altinn. In a country with a high cost level, this is an important focus and an opportunity for increased value creation. The main efforts to contribute to value creation and growth are broadband, digital participation, advanced ICT skills and business digitisation. But if we're to succeed in finding the best solutions for the future, we need to focus on recruitment. There is currently a shortage of engineers and ICT trainers in Norway. That is why we see a tendency for more and more people to be recruited beyond the borders of the country. It is good that the government is now looking for specific obstacles related to recruitment for ICT education here at home. Education, competence and research are important building blocks for Norway to strengthen its competitiveness and consolidate its position as one of the best-developed, knowledge-based and competitive economies in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4128	The notification gives a clear description of the situation. It also gives a clear description of how the government looks at the different fields, and how it intends to facilitate its own policies. But this message is completely missing what has to do with instruments. I'll try to mention a couple of examples. In the 1960s, the United States sent the first man to the moon. You just sent an unmanned vehicle to Mars. You can record music from space – to the earth. In Norway, however, X - ray images are sent by taxi between hospitals in Oslo City Centre. It says a little bit about that we have a way to go – that we may not have been good enough to do what we're doing. We see that there are great opportunities in health and care technology, but things are going terribly late. To give an example, it is a little strange that while discussing the information technology and the solution to be chosen, one forgets to build up the infrastructure, among other things. the buildings in the care sector which will actually put them into service. It is already appropriate to inform the House Bank, in the context of the allocation relating to the construction of nursing homes, that one of the criteria laid down there is that infrastructure has been put in place to make use of the future technology in the care sector, such as the one in question. Safehouse technology opens up. Then you depend on broadband, you depend on two-way communication between the actors to create the security you want. I think it's also in the public sector that you talk and talk about all the great digital solutions you have to choose – and the efficiency you need to achieve by choosing the solutions. The only thing that results is even more employees, and we lack that efficiency. I think what you actually need in these situations is a better and real plan that gives us results, and measurement indicators that make sure you can actually achieve a goal there. We really need a gift in this field, but we have to start all the way down to the basic level, especially in the area of health and care – precisely because there's so much broken up land. And it's strange, as I said, that we in Norway today send X-rays with taxis in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4150	ICT is a tool for growth and value creation. Norway is on the verge of using the Internet. 86 pst. we use online banking, while the EU average is 37 pst. The administration will help anyone who wants to use digital tools and services. In order to achieve this, it is important to get a good overview of the use of the Internet among the elderly — to facilitate good use of the Internet by this group. ICT is important for the value creation of Norway. We have a strong ICT industry, while ICT is an important tool for all industries. During this development, the government is supporting an offensive effort on electronic services aimed at business. Central here is Altin and electronic dialogue with employer, EDAG. The government will stimulate the most possible public data to be made available free of charge or at a low price. Map data is an important basis for many applications, both public and private. The government has started the process of releasing central map data. The revised national budget proposes to grant 10 million. kr for this purpose. It will include, among others: proposed to release data from the main landscape map series and road data and address data. Security is a key element of ICT policy. It is important to note that the department has a superior responsibility for ICT security in its own sector. Some departments have a special responsibility. The Government transfers responsibility for the prevention of information security in the civil sector from the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Norway is at the forefront of delivering digital services to business. The ID port provides access to web services from over 280 public enterprises. The government also cooperates with municipalities on good ICT solutions. It is a political responsibility to facilitate digitisation in the public sector in order to exploit potential for growth and value creation. But it is also a public responsibility to facilitate market players to contribute to growth and value creation. It is not least important in an industry that is heavily dependent on infrastructure and where extensive interaction with the public is important. I wonder that the opposition actually emphasises that the market should function on its own, and does not suggest that the public has a responsibility for the market to function as well as possible in the ICT sector, with the support functions of the public as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4169	The government must have boasted that they put ICT and digital solutions on the agenda. Unfortunately, the Communication does not outline solutions or ambitions for the areas that politicians really can and should do with: broadband and the digitisation of public services. The Left therefore joins the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party's criticism that instead of describing the current state of the ICT development situation in the public sector, the Communication should be much more offensive about how a coordinated ICT policy could trigger efficiency gains in public administration and give positive ring-fences to business elsewhere. In the view of the Left, the Communication does not address the potential of Telecom and the rest of the ICT industry for Norwegian value creation. Firstly, there is a direct link between broadband penetration and broadband quality and growth in a country’s GDP. Secondly, this is one of the areas in which Norway has unique prerequisites for the safe and further development of industries and the well-being of the future. Having an ambition for a ‘basic quality broadband offer’ — as stated in the Communication — is too weak. What would our best skiers have achieved if the goal was to become ‘basic good’ on skis? A goal must have a greater ambition than that and be more concrete. There's got to be something to go after. In the view of the Left, we must at least match the ambitions of the Swedes, as translated into Norwegian conditions will mean that at least 40 pst. shall offer 100 Mbit bandwidth in 2015 and 90 pst. in 2020. Similarly, it must be a priority task to realize a real nationwide ground network number two. Today we know that everything we have of the telecommunications, mobile, and emergency networks, at last, rests on Telenor's network. Fortunately, although we have more players who have their own ground nets, no one today is dependent on renting cable capacity from Telenor. From a consumer perspective, from a competitive point of view, and not least from a safety perspective, it is essential that the public, in interaction with industry, contribute to a two-central network. If a potent Norwegian broadband network is to be fully counted, it must be combined with large capacity abroad. For example, outdoor landscapes combined with access to short-range renewable energy and a cold climate provide us with: a good starting point for creating growth and industry based on cloud technology, as well as strengthening the competitiveness of existing industries. The left also believes that Norway should benefit from the realization of its own transatlantic sea cable. It would give us a dedicated access to the international core network and be a significant infrastructure investment for the nation and business. With this, I address the Left's proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4192	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4195	Digital Calendar is the message of opportunity! Norway needs to take advantage of ICT and the opportunities offered by the Internet for value creation and innovation. ICT is a technology that is part of all areas of society. In this way, the proper use of ICT is an opportunity that creates huge gains for Norway in the future. The government will facilitate the participation of the entire population in digital development. That's why we have to make sure that anyone who wants it has the ability to use digital services and that they have access to broadband of good quality. It is a political responsibility to ensure that the last 5-10 pst. of the non-online population, will be able to make use of the digital possibilities. This is one of the main objectives of this Communication. I am also pleased with what we see as a broad support for the government's broadband policy. The Committee’s position points out that market players are to a large extent driving forward developments. I fully agree with that, and that is how it should be. At the same time, it is our task to facilitate the optimum functioning of the market, that there is healthy competition, and that scarce resources – such as frequencies – are exploited in a way that gives the most outnumbered society. We've also spent well over a billion dollars to ensure coverage where the market doesn't stretch, and we'll continue to do that. I have noticed the minority’s comments on the need for more government governance and coordination of ICT in the public sector, and on the need for more cooperation across administrative areas and levels. This government has worked on it systematically. Let me give you some examples. We've established diffi, which is the state coordinator in the field. We've developed important common solutions, such as electronic ID and Altinn. We work with digital mailboxes for all citizens. We are now demanding, as standards and architecture principles, which all the institutions must follow. Every year, we send out the common requirements for state-owned ICT projects. We have established TAX. TAX is composed of the main heads of agencies and is mandated to coordinate ICT development in the public sector. TAXATION will coordinate work on the national common components. We have promoted our own legislative proposal for the Stortinget on the necessary changes to the Administrative Act. This was adopted at Stortinget on 3 June. We have briefly facilitated digital communication with the administration as a general rule. This has given results, but that's more to do, and we're going to follow that up. Among other things, we have contributed to the positive development of the municipal sector through the establishment of a separate programme, the COMIT, which will be an important co-operation partner of the state in the future. The Government’s digital agenda is an agenda drawn up to be followed up by many government councils. That's the way it's going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4232	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4235	My question is related to health and care and to what is associated with infrastructure and support for infrastructure in connection with the establishment of, inter alia, care homes to do. When municipalities apply for public funding through the House Bank, there is initially no incentive for the House Bank to provide this infrastructure. There are also several agencies that come into the picture: you have the specialist health service, you have the municipal sector, you might have the Nav system. All of these floors could have a positive effect on it, not least on the user. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State review whether it is appropriate to look at the award criteria of the House Bank in order to facilitate the provision of infrastructure related to Safe House technology — i.e. digitally — in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4242	Now health and care technologies are under the responsibility of the Minister of Health, but we have rules for the allocation of grants to nursing homes, which enable good technology to be put in place inside individual homes. There the regulations were changed not so long ago, so that we can facilitate that there are technological solutions in the individual nursing homes that are being built in the future. Most care homes are built in relatively densely populated areas. There is now reasonably good broadband coverage, so that digital solutions can also be used in nursing homes. If not, it would be a good idea if the municipalities sought technology – fiber – into the nursing homes. It would also be good for the other people who live in the area, and I think that the vast majority of people will be able to get a good response from the market actors. If not, we have established a separate grant scheme for the areas not covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4249	The ‘market actors’ is a central word used several times by the Council of State. They're driving part of this development, that's absolutely right. One of the proposals that the opposition has put forward is precisely that of market players who use, among other things: spatial data and property information at the raw data level. The council has been satisfied with the connection to the message, and the opposition has largely joined in on the intentions, although we believe that part of it is passive and could have a more offensive attitude. But for this with raw data, what will the Council of State do to improve this for market players? It's undoubtedly a central problem that you don't get this out, and that's why we had to make a proposal about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4256	As was said in the main post of representative Holmelid, we have already covered it with map data. Funds were allocated in the revised national budget. The Minister for the Environment is now working on a strategy to make all map and property data more accessible to the administration, non-governmental organisations and businesses – it is important. Some data are already covered by a new free principle if the Storting now endorses the proposals contained in the revised national budget. It's not formally dealt with here in the hall yet. It is also working from the Cartwork's side with a simpler price model. It is true that part of the map data is a shattering layer between commercial players, and at least we have to find solutions so that it is not the commercial actors that pay data for the others. Then I have a happy news that I can share with the representative Fleet: from December until today the number of datasets on data.norge.no has increased by 270 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4265	The left has distributed two suggestions in the room here today, and as I explained in my post, one went on the ground floor II and the other on a transatlantic connection. It could be exciting to hear the Council of State's assessments of the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4270	With regard to the first proposal by the representative Tende in the Chamber today, it is mainly under the rules of the Minister of Transport and the Ecoms Act, but I agree that it is important that we focus on security in the telecommunications network. We now have a good expansion of fibre capacity in addition to the network that Telenor has, so that we do not see any immediate need for the public to go into and make large investments in a new nationwide network. When it comes to the need for foreign tables, it comes up from time to time. It is very different what market actors answer those questions, but I am aware that several market players have turned to more foreign capacity. If those market players find it appropriate, I agree that it should be possible to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 20 and 21 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4304	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4315	It's a great pleasure for me to present the setting of the maritime food message, the world's leading maritime union, to the Size. The message is good and was well received by the industry. We've done it even better through landfill treatment. This I will come back to. Ever since the first speed movement began well 10,000 years ago, adaptation to marine resources, especially fishing, has been the determining factor for the pattern of settlement, employment and economic development along the coast. In this way fisheries have adapted to time-consuming natural fluctuations, but with the massive technological development of the national and international fishing fleets after the 1900s, the main challenge was soon to adapt and regulate the take-offs in relation to natural resources. This has been, and is still, very demanding and complicated processes. I would like to stress that fishing resources and other marine resources are the property of the community, and the Marine Resource Act establishes the importance of ensuring sustainable and socio-economic management, which in turn will ensure employment and coastal settlement. With our marine and coastal areas, Norway has a particularly natural advantage compared to other nations. The natural advantages give us particular responsibility for producing food, feed for farming and other important inputs based on marine biological resources. In addition, with its strong position in the major maritime industries, fisheries, shipping, oil and gas, Norway has a unique position and the ability to be world leaders in marine technology, competence and value creation. Norway shall have ambitions to be a world-leading port, and we politicians shall facilitate this through good framework conditions and ensure that we manage resources in a sustainable way. We are very pleased that our Minister of Fisheries and Coast announced early on that she would promote a maritime food report for the Storting, and that Norway, as the world's leading maritime nation, is not just a vision, but a realistic and correct goal. It also shows this message. 2013 is the year when the government made up the status and cancelled the course for the future. Today, we adopt a long-term policy that sets the framework for Norwegian seafood in the coming years. The Storting Communication describes how Norway can develop as a maritime nation. Norwegian fjords and seas are incredible tax chambers. There are a number of resources that are used to a small extent and that can give rise to new marine value creation. I am pleased that in the treatment there seems to be a great deal of agreement to facilitate new marine growth. In several areas, Norway is already one of the world’s leading maritime states. We are the world's second largest exporter of seafood. Our management of fisheries and aquaculture is one of the world's leading competences and management. Many countries look to us with wonder and wonder how we get it. Several key reports and strategies point to the industrial strength and growth potential of marine industries. Common to several of the reports is the view that Norwegian seafood will play an important national and international role. The seafood industry plays an important role in developing Norway as the world’s leading maritime nation. However, the profitability of the agricultural industry has been weak for a long time, especially in the fillet industry. There may be a lot of reasons for that. The production of ready-to-use products and direct contact with the market are essential for a dynamic seafood industry that is to achieve the highest possible value creation based on our marine resources. At the same time, the seafood industry operates in markets characterised by strong competition in both the raw material and the finished market. We are therefore pleased that the industry has gained a central role in the maritime food communication. I would like to mention in particular a few of the measures. One is the establishment of a public sample to review the framework conditions of the marine food industry by the end of 2014. The second is that the research funds should be targeted at market, technology and product development as well as better use of the residual raw material. Developing a more competitive seafood industry while ensuring that value creation and jobs benefit coastal communities is a challenge. 95 % of all seafood produced in Norway is exported. It is therefore important that the government has an active policy to ensure Norwegian maritime food market access in international markets. Market-oriented work is very important for Norwegian seafood to have a stable framework and to ensure that the industry can meet the demand for seafood from Norway. The Norwegian seafood industry has a good starting point with proximity to large fishing resources from fisheries and aquaculture combined with a short path to a well-paid market in Europe and Russia. However, if Norway is to be the best at sea food, the quality of raw material must be world-class. It's not like that today. The fishermen here have to take a much greater responsibility even for the quality of the raw material. We support the proposal to strengthen the supervision of raw material quality and raw material processing under the supervision of the fish sales laws. I also notice that the Progress Party is against this, unfortunately. Investments in innovation and technology development are important to ensure a profitable rural industry in the future. The industrial policy instrument plays an important role in this regard, as do schemes such as SkattenFUNN, which the Government strengthens in the revised national budget. It is a policy objective to maintain a varied coastal fishing fleet and to facilitate controlled structuring in line with the need for increased income. The adaptations shall be within the framework of a structured policy designed to achieve fisheries policy objectives. In the maritime food notification, the government proposes to adjust the quota ceiling for the fleet over 11 metres and to facilitate a greater degree of specialisation. We received clear feedback in the hearing that fishermen themselves wanted freedom of choice when it came to quota composition by structuring. We have listened to this, and together with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast, we have come up with a unified solution, with which I record that the industry is now well pleased. Based on an overall assessment, the structural quota scheme for the fleet is not introduced below 11 metres. The issue of quota access and profitability will be addressed. Meanwhile, the temporary co-fishing system will be continued. We support the proposal not to change the quota year and to consider the issue of quota flexibility. This can be a good measure to secure raw materials for industry. It is also very good that the health perspective is raised and that it focuses on ensuring high-quality and safe food for consumers. Investment in knowledge is a red thread throughout the message. The government will strengthen the publicly funded marine research, and I notice that this is something it seems to be a cross-political consensus on. We support the government's overall objective of further growth in the aquaculture industry within a sustainable framework. There is no doubt that the industry's main environmental challenges in the short term are related to escape and leachus, and the impact this may have on the wild. It is therefore proposed to establish methods for monitoring and measuring the impact of escape and salmonids. When limit values are exceeded, measures shall be considered. This shall provide management with better opportunities to regulate the aquaculture industry in an environmentally sustainable manner. In the long term, land use is likely to be the main challenge for industry. It is therefore appropriate to develop a zone-based land structure in the aquaculture sector. It is important that the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises are properly taken into account. In addition, it is important that municipalities receive part of the remuneration for the granting of new permits – this in order to give municipalities an incentive to plan for aquaculture. As a summary: this is an important and good maritime food message with many good measures that I record that the opposition is also largely behind it. So the opposition says in a note that we are now returning the clock to Svein Ludvigsen's time, but that is obviously not right. Then I also record that the Right Fisheries Commissioner, Frank Bakke-Jensen, was early out there criticising our maritime food report. In fact, he was out on the same day as it was launched, and made clear that he was deeply disappointed, and that the Right would come back with a counter-message. And since then we've been waiting. Right should have clarified long ago what fisheries policy they will pursue in the future. For the past eight years, we have carried out a responsible and good fisheries policy that has given industry profitability and ensured sustainable populations, including in the past. This is an important day for Norwegian seafood, and I really look forward to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4396	I have found a question for the representative from the Workers' Party. We also have the aquaculture law for processing now, and one of the things that is being changed in the aquaculture law is the ownership limit of 25 pst, which is now being repealed in the law. And the Council of State has sent the owner-control regulation to the hearing – this by opening up to increase the percentage of ownership to up to 40 pst. Now we're in the legislative assembly, and it's interesting to hear the answer to the question I'm going to ask the representative Lillian Hansen. The draft consultation which has now been sent refers to the need to increase the processing obligation and some other factors in order to increase the ownership of the farming industry. My question to the representative is: if after a time this is no longer observed, what will happen? Here we are talking about large international groups. What will happen if they fail to comply with the processing obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4403	What we've been clear about in the comments on the marine food notification is that if there are requirements for the obligation and it is not respected, it should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4408	Eight years ago, the Workers' Party held an election campaign in which, on the fishing side, they clearly announced that the structural model would be stopped, it would be reversed and it would be lifted. Then they took 18 months of structural break, and then they came on the track with a model that you still have, and today we're about back where Svein Ludvigsen was when he was Minister of Fisheries eight years ago. The representative Hansen says that you are not back where Svein Ludvigsen was, but that, on the contrary, a responsible fisheries policy has been pursued in these eight years. For the Right, predictability of nutritionists is an important value. How can the representative Hansen explain to me that the structure of the seed has been frozen, and then you've released a little bit and now you're back where you were eight years ago? Where is the responsibility element in the political job that the government has done here?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4415	At first I want to say that the Right must first decide whether it is negative or positive that you go back to the Ludvigsen time. There's uncertainty about just that. Right now I realized that it was negative, but it is possible that I misunderstood. As I said in my contribution, we have landed on a structural quota system that we have come up with after listening to the fishing industry. The fishing industry was very clear, and has been clear for many years, that they wanted 3+3 in terms of structuring. Now we have chosen a system that goes on freedom of choice, and as I said in my post, we have received answers from the industry that they are very pleased with what we have landed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4422	In the Maritime Chapter of the Communication, the Government announces that it will introduce sustainability indicators and limit values for negative impacts on the environment. We in the Christian People's Party agree. On page 122 of the message, there is a large and fine figure showing what to do if the sustainability indicators show that limit values have been exceeded. In the case of indications, an assessment should be carried out, and we also appear to be sensible, but it is further down in the figure: ‘verification of the state’ through ‘direct method of measuring actual impact’, one can then arrive at a high level of scientific verification as to whether the state of the environment is good, medium or poor. And in all three cases, it is still said that one should ‘assess’ and ‘renewal of increased monitoring’. Does the representative not agree that if you have scientific evidence showing a poor environmental status, could it be time to take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4431	I noticed now that the Christian People's Party is insinuating that we in the Workers' Party believe that the consideration of the aquaculture industry should weigh more heavily than the environment. That's wrong. It's as wrong as it might be. We are taking action, and if I have not misunderstood the Christian People's Party now, it is good that the Christian People's Party also supports the measures contained in the notification and to the extent also in the Aquaculture Act. Then we must recognise that all farming – like all other food production – affects the environment, and in every case it must also be fully possible to look at more considerations when we are finally going to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4438	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4442	I'm going to start with the Aquaculture Act, where I'm the case rapporteur. The Government, through the submission of Prop. 103 L for 2012-2013 had a back-testing of the Aquaculture Act. In this context, a number of legislative proposals have been made, and a significant change in policy has also been made. Some areas are not necessarily concerned with decisions that could have consequences today, because the technology is not yet in place. These include: opening for the purpose of requiring the labelling of farmed fish. Technology is not in use today, but from the government's side you open up to get a warrant in place. It also opens up the possibility of requiring a solidarity scheme in which farmers cover the costs of destocking runaway farmed fish in priority watercourses. There is already a scheme today, a scheme that the breeders themselves have put in place, that they finance, and that works very well. Furthermore, it provides for the levying of a State levy on farmers for environmental monitoring. More stringent sanctions are provided for. This applies in particular to the infringement fee, which could now result in a purely administrative fee linked to the breeding industry rather than having to go to court. At least a minority in the Committee considers this to be highly problematic in terms of legal certainty. There is also a reference from a law firm that points out the same thing. Then a minority has made a proposal in the vote that this fee should be limited to up to 15 times the basic amount of the public interest. In addition, it must be possible to report and execute criminal proceedings as a common criminal offence in the judiciary. Furthermore, it is possible to facilitate the exchange of information with other authorities supervising the aquaculture industry. That is a sensible measure. There should only be a lack of exchange of information between the agencies. There is also a possible future requirement for the use of sterile fish. Neither are we there with the technological part. Nor are we in the matter of labelling, where one has still not made a decision on, among other things. the veterinary and fish health aspects, linked, inter alia, to: fat-finishing, which has been one of the alternatives lying there. The positions and positions of the majority constellation have already been given in these matters. Now we've got more of that, so I'll go over to my own post related to the political part of these matters. In this connection, I must be allowed to say the following: In the change of line we have just had, there was an eye-catching response from the representative Lillian Hansen. On my question to the representative about what happens if a company acquires a larger holding than 25 p.m., according to, among other things. the draft consultation issued by the Council of State; if, for example: buys up in a company at 35 pst. – listed companies, large international groups – and then after a while you see that there is no economy to cope with the new requirements that exist, so the representative of this assembly says that this should be withdrawn. Then the question is, what is to be withdrawn? The shares have already been purchased. The company is already established. Then the question is not answered: Should the shares be forced to be sold? I expect representatives from the government parties in this room to clarify this, precisely because it is a very serious situation if this happens. But I expect the Council of State, when she has finished the draft consultation, and the final legislation on this matter is to be grasped, has a completely different starting point than that of the representative Lillian Hansen, who, on behalf of the government parties, spokesperson for fisheries policy, just had in his reply. I'm going to go over to what's going on with the Marine Food Communication, and I'm going to make points for points in a number of different areas. I want to start with the farming industry, aquaculture. Norway has enormous potential, and we have seen so late today that there is considerable interest in Norwegian breeding companies. We have followed the news as late as this afternoon, where the State Council Trond Giske among others. have notified possible changes in ownership constellations — the second last week of the Storting. Then we get presented with a proposition tomorrow morning, related to the possibility of both total sales in Cermaq ASA or any purchase in Cermaq ASA. So tomorrow we are asked for a power of attorney for a sale, which was voted down by the government parties as late as a month ago in this assembly, in connection with the processing of the Cermaq case and the purchase of Copeinca. The other part goes on a purchase, but it shows that there is interest in these companies. That's very good, because there's a huge potential in this industry. We have good areas, we have good areas, but then we also have to make sure that we make sure that the municipalities can also take a larger part of the value creation that happens out there. In the context of the 45 green salmon concessions, the Progress Party proposed that part of this money should not go to the county councils or state, but should belong to the municipalities where the concessions were based. The Stortinget voted down, so that the opportunity was lost in that round. Unfortunately, it might look like, at least with this government, that it might take a long time before we get the next concession round. But what's important is that we just make sure to give it to the municipalities. The message just says that, now you're going to start to see if the municipalities are not going to get a larger part of that cake. I also think that should be done a long time ago. I have already been involved in sanctions, and some of the other terms I will take if I get time to do so in the end, but I will take up all the suggestions we are making in all the matters we are going to deal with now, so that it is done. This applies in all three cases, including the Fish Sales Act, so we've done it all together. With regard to the fishing fleet, there are also great opportunities and great potential. We have already heard the government's position on what is freedom of choice within the coastal fleet, related to what is related to the quotas, in terms of being fully structured and being able to choose between the cod sector on board the boat or the pelagic sector in relation to these allocations. The Progress Party wants it to have full freedom of choice in that context. It must be for each vessel owner to be able to professionalise and streamline his own fishing, which is precisely what makes this a profitable fishing. Don't forget one thing: it's not just the shipowners who own the catch on board the boat. Through the lottery in Norway today, the active fisherman on board the boat is also the owner of the catch. Allow them to make decisions that optimise the catch to be delivered to some reception. Furthermore, as far as the fillet industry is concerned, most of us sitting here in the hall are reading the Fisherman's Book. This week we have, among other things: have been presented to the annual accounts of the Nergård group last year – significantly less. We have been presented with the accounts related to Norway Seafoods – significant minus. So it's the industry that we have to provide in this country, which is going to make sure that the great raw material we bring through our fishing fleet to land is being processed and sent out to a market that, hopefully, is willing to pay a high price for good quality. But then we have to have some fish sales that are better than what is happening today, able to convert the best quality raw material into a higher price than the raw material that is generally coming. It doesn't work optimally. We have to make sure that the industry that is going to produce has an economy that enables them to professionalise and invest in technological solutions that allow you to become competitive, among other things. to other countries where labour costs are significantly lower than those in Norway. Today a lot of fish are sent from Norway to China. The fish is filleted in China, sent back to Norway and sold to the market as Norwegian fish. It must have been better to make sure that our industry had the economic backbone to make investments in the best equipment and to have further developed new equipment, which could have read both the size and type of the fish and at the same time cut out the boulders without having to do it by hand – as we do in the industry today because of different sizes of the fish – and ensure that we can get a good return from the fish we are going to produce. But what's the answer? Well, the answer is to maintain all the solutions that have been found there, which are not a solution, but which have been centered over time and do not take into account the ability to streamline, rationalise and become competitive, but have been linked solely to what has been mentioned as a universal service obligation, linked to a specific berth in a specific municipality – and there the fish, whether you want it or not. It is not just universal service obligations on these facilities. There is also a purchasing obligation in this system. The time is overdue to look at these arrangements, but let me make it clear from this pulpit once and for all – so maybe some may spend their time changing lines on something other than just this: the delivery obligations that they exist are agreed upon. Agreements concluded shall be respected and respected – sentence. It's now cleared from our side and from the other side. The contractual works shall be respected and kept. Furthermore, I will also go into a few other areas of the fishing industry. This applies, inter alia, to: Our resources in the sea. I want to give the government a boost in the field related to fisheries management. We've been good in Norway in that field. It's done a lot of good. However, we still have steps to take in relation to research and development. It is time that we made sure to improve the tax FUNN scheme. In this way, this industry will be able to use a greater share of investment related to innovation, innovation, product development and other things in new production lines, by investing itself in what they are actually contributing to. Then, the tax FUNN scheme or direct tax deductions are linked to the investments made in innovation, the best scheme we have. The same applies to the BIA programme, the User-Controlled Innovation Arena. It offers great opportunities. But we have to have an economic foundation that enables us to use these arrangements. Then again the economy is a keyword. We have to make sure that our industries are robust. With regard to the food chain, both in aquaculture and in whitefish and pelagic fish, and what it might be, we have to think all the way to the market. It does not help us to have good thoughts in Norway if the market will change. If it's too expensive to produce the fish in Norway, the market buys tilapia and pangasius outside the world. We have to make sure we're competitive. The price of cod has become terribly low. I think it is sad that the cod has received such a low price. That is why I would like to challenge the Council of State that we must not just have a fresh fish strategy. It must be possible to take care of the amazingly good frozen products that we have. It also applies to freezing on board the boats. Today, Norway has three factory trawlers that produce the frozen fillet on board. No one is going to tell me that the fish is not of good quality. You have to ensure greater freedom for the smaller boats, so that they can put up a small fillet line on board the boat and produce a first-class product that can be sold in the market, without being spotted because you have produced it on board the boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4496	When we talk about awareness-raising, I have to say that the information we now received from the spokesperson on universal service was alarming. After all, the progress party has had a completely different line in terms of universal service – there is no way to tighten up. Now I understand that you've done a complete revolution here. To something else: Nesvik was about to deliver on specific quays in specific municipalities. The Progress Party is clear in this and other positions: it does not want to see regional policy in the context of fisheries policy. Greater regions, more factory trawlers, more onboard freezing, more purchase and sale of quotas – which will have consequences for housing and employment in rural areas. Doesn't the Progress Party see this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4503	It is obvious that I must provide the representative Lillian Hansen with reading help. As far as universal service is concerned, the Progress Party has stated clearly that we refuse to expand it. We say no to make it even worse for both the industry and those who are going to deliver. What we have said – I get to repeat it, so that the representative Lillian Hansen gets it along – is that agreements are to be respected. This means that in the context of the agreements that have already been signed – once allowances have been reduced – you should relate to the discount you have actually received. We have not said that we should not take territorial considerations into account. But instead of looking at the universality of a specific kai, a specific municipality, we have said, let's see this in the context of a larger region, so that you get more profitability, the opportunity to invest and the opportunity to live in the districts instead of living in a fantasy world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4510	In recent times, we have seen that the Progress Party has had different attitudes and messages about the new Fish Sale Act after which meetings they have participated in. In the debate during the anniversary of the Norwegian Råfisklag on 30 May, the representative of the Prämskritsparte, Øyvind Korsberg, said that the Progress Party would not change the law. However, in the Fiskribladet Fiskararen on 5 June, Nesvik says that the Advance Party wants to rematch the entire law after the election. My question to Nesvik will therefore be as follows: When the Progress Party in the proposal for this case says that they will ask the government to carry out an overall review of the first-hand turnover and revision of the minimum-price system, I ask whether this is in line with what Øyvind Korsberg said at the meeting of the Raw Fish Team in Tromsø on 30 May, or whether it means that the Progress Party will have a fight against the entire law, so that the industry gets more influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4515	We relate to what is available today. The answer to whether I and Korsberg agree on the presentation of the responsibility is yes. We are voting for the whole law today. We have said that when it comes to the problem, we will reconsider this. That's because we want to see this in a total review to see if there might be other ways to do things. One of those things may concern the pelagic sector, which largely uses the auctioning principle for its catches, but for catches less than 50 tonnes, the minimum price system is more widely used. This is one thing that can be seen. Anything else that can be seen is the law itself, the monopolistic part of it. However, we insist on the position – and the representative has also read it – that we support these things. We support what is available. We have no alternative legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4520	It's not that simple, though. The representative of Øyvind Korsberg said at the meeting in Tromsø that he fully agreed with the red-green ones. What Harald T. Nesvik of the Progression Party now says is in conflict with what the red-green ones say. We hear here statements about a monopolist to set the price. We hear how the Progress Party has intended to erode this law. With respect to reporting, this is not what the red-greens are presenting today on new fish sales laws. It is time for the Progress Party to be clear and clear to the fishermen and the coast of what they actually mean, and not to go with lies and turn the jacket after the wind depending on the meeting they're at.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4525	Several times in this room for the last three years we've been debating, the red-green politicians have categorically said that it's not relevant to change the raw fish law. Today, there are revised drafts, amendments to the law, changes to the structure, even changes to the name of the law and to the new purpose paragraph. I think the representative Lange Nordahl should go back to his own reports and see that it's not all you say, that's hogged down in stone. There are also legal issues: things have to be revised in the course of the process. We are voting in favour of the principle that exists here today. We're voting in favour of the law. But in the long term, we will review to see – when we may have an appliance around us and can use external people – what will be the most profitable for the industry itself, and see how we can get up the price level and do this better for everyone. Then we will come back to this, and then Stortinget will be allowed to make its decisions in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4533	There is a broad consensus today that the seafood industry is one of the most important export industries we have. Marine nutrition also meets us in many ways, both at the cultural level, as a traditional bearer, as a bearer of coastal culture, and as an identity for people who have their own business in the industry. In addition, it should be mentioned that it helps in the interest when you deliver 50 billion. kr in export income annually. This government has chosen different methods of anchoring political ideas. For the mineral industry and travel, we got government strategies. I think thorough processes are also behind these works, but in my opinion they have a little minus. They're actually not sufficiently anchored in the Storting. State Council Berg-Hansen will have the honor to take the industry so seriously that she promotes a big message about the matter. It results in a much more thorough process with its comitology, the involvement of all parties and additional consultation rounds. In my view, this thorough process and broad involvement also lead to the increased status that we want the industry to have in the political debate. In the past, we have referred to fisheries policy debates as debates on the bottoms. The Council of State is taking an important step in increasing the political status of the maritime food industry by promoting the dissemination of information. I think that the Council of State should have the honor of, in addition to the fact that other red-green states councils can actually have something to learn here. In the right we were early outside and informed that we would promote a counter-message. It was perceived by the position as opposed to the government’s announcement. Of course, it's not that simple. But we have other ideas and better solutions to parts of the message that the Council of State has presented to us. These differences seem important to us, not primarily because we believe that the positionists have passed by. We have recorded that the government will meet us in a number of areas that they have voted us down in this Chamber in the last four years. The position can therefore adorn itself with the fact that they have learned a lot from the Right Policy. Nevertheless, there are still fields where we disagree with the government. We promote our counter-communication to make what is our policy in the industry visible. I have to use some extra clarifying words about this. The red-greens have had two approaches when they are criticising that we are notifying a counter-message. First of all, they said that we could not notify a message until we had seen what the government was bringing. To that it's saying that we haven't slept in the last few years when we've been in this room, we've been working. We therefore know that there are enough themes where we have different policies. The second subtle way to criticize us is to claim that we should say one thing in the comments and then something else in our own message. Of course, we're not going to do that. Surprising for some people it may be, but there are not very many out in the industry who sit down and read comments on big messages. We therefore have good experience in the Right in promoting our own counter-communications on important issues; it is a good way to communicate what is our policy. The last time we did this with the agricultural message. This was very well received in agriculture as it better clarified what the policy of the Right meant. This is also the case with the Right Seafood Communication. Openness about politics is a good thing, we believe in the Right. I record that you think we're late, and that you're impatient in position to see what we're doing. I'll take that as a good sign. That's a healthy interest, and our message should come. What does the Right mean about the government's message? We believe that there is a message that contains important descriptions of the total seafood industry. It extends the concept of maritime nutrition to also include new fields where we are not yet completely at the top of the world, but where the potential is great. That's good. In the right, we believe that it is an important point that this is now more viewed as one industry, even though it is fragmented in several layers – with coastal fishing teams, fishing teams, Pelagic Association and fishing boats on the sea side, and with FHL and NSL on land. This is probably from a democratic point of view – and freedom of organisation is a value it is important to fight for – but for the industry it is important that it is perceived collectively. An overall seafood diet, and the seafood industry as a concept, is becoming important in the future, and it has been well treated in the message that has now come. The reason for this is that the industry is going to compete – on areas, resources, personnel, research resources, capital, infrastructure resources, etc. In fact, in order to exemplify, it is that there is more weight on the argument if the seismic shooting takes place at the expense of the seafood industry than if it were a problem for five flyers. So the maritime food notification should give us a brief summary of a policy that facilitates the development of the marine food industry nationally. One of our three most important knowledge clusters is to grow several times, so that Norway, as a nation, is to reach the vision of ‘the world’s foremost maritime state’. Where do we separate our paths? As in the Agriculture Communication, this message is full of objectives, but not as crystal clear on how to achieve these objectives. The seafood industry is, as has been said before, a relatively well-regulated industry. For the right, it is important that industrial policies facilitate growth and profitability, and not least that we focus on opportunities for growth and profitable operations. Therefore, predictability and the possibility of long-term planning are important factors for us. We believe that the government in the communication still sows confusion as to the framework factors that business operators can see for themselves in the future. What are the structural models to be applied? Up to the middle of the committee procedure, one model has been delivered, then the industry has turned around and now presents the flexibility that the industry wants. This isn't something you've been told about in the last 14 days, so you control, but you control the wings. How does growth in the aquaculture industry regulate? What should govern how much ownership you can occupy in both fleet, industry and aquaculture? In all these areas, predictable framework conditions will be important if the industry is to grow as much as we want it to. The right considers that the marine food industry, as the global industry we describe it, needs to have the market more as a guide. Existing markets must be maintained and new markets must be developed. To succeed, the correct quality of raw material must be available when required by the market. This applies to both white fish, aquaculture and pelagic industries. It is, therefore, the policy that needs to be implemented so that this can be done. The proposed changes to the consultation note on delivery obligations, for example, could, unfortunately, lead to a deterioration rather than an improvement, since no account is taken of what the market will have, but add up to a regulation that can quickly lead to an increase in the problem of overfish on land in the first four months of the year. This will allow a review of a number of regulations in the maritime food industry – it will be regulated away from market-oriented operations rather than tending to the market when it is there. If we're going to reach the vision, we're going to have to do more research. We have to do things smarter than our competitors because of a high level of costs and a demanding competitive situation. I therefore refer to our remarks, where in the Right we have a significantly higher investment in research than the government parties. Our policy also facilitates more research initiated by the companies themselves. This is, in our opinion, very important, and the key if we are to succeed in commercialising more of our research efforts: close cooperation between the research environments and a business with research focus. I record that representative Hansen is bringing forward SkattenFUNN as the new tool, on behalf of the government. There I have to be allowed to arrest the representative. Actually, it's not like you've improved the Tax Fund. You've basically tightened it up, and then you've announced an improvement, but you haven't delivered it. It can come to the harvest. It was notified in the research report and it is announced in this message, but it has not been delivered. It is experientially easy to wait for things to be delivered before cheering. In the Right, we believe that more of the value creation must belong directly to the communities. This is to give incentives to facilitate activity. We have therefore proposed that a greater proportion of the corporate tax should apply directly to the municipalities. In addition, the concession fee and the tax on MTB should apply to the municipalities concerned. Right view predictable growth as a good tool for the industry to research more and develop both more products and more markets. We also believe that the demand for sustainable growth is best achieved by facilitating predictable growth. We also suspend sustainability by stating the principle that each polluter pays. In the right we don't believe that a solidarity fund is the right way to go. We believe that the responsible breeder must also take the load when catching up and cleaning up. This seems more preventative in our opinion, and makes higher demands on individuals to meet the sustainability criteria. In summary, we have described three important policy principles in the notes. Policies shall primarily facilitate, not engage in business and value creation. The fact that more of the value creation belongs to the community in question is about the distribution of power. The right builds policy from the bottom to the top, and then provides a framework that allows local communities to facilitate the value creation of all kinds. Long-termity and predictable frameworks provide robust growth conditions, which will be necessary if we are to reach the vision of becoming the world's foremost maritime state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4577	I assume the representative will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4580	I am addressing the proposals that are available from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4585	The representative Bakke-Jensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4590	I registered that the representative Bakke-Jensen said that their alternative agricultural message was well received by the industry. I'll say it so that this is a great bypass of truth. But in the Right Program, and also in the Notes, the Right is very – to put it mildly – diffuse on what they really mean. For example, they warn that the regulation is too strict, that management should be more consistent and that the legal certainty of fishermen is not well maintained, while saying that they are going back to the fisheries policy of the Højres own fisheries minister Svein Ludvigsen in 2005. What does the Right One really mean? Can we expect the alerted counter-communication to come with a new policy that is not reflected in this setting? Then it may well be in place today to tell more about it and what course the Right seems to be staggering for the fisheries policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4595	It was a relatively comprehensive question for a one-minute answer, but we're going to try it out. In the case of Svein Ludvigsen's model, it is usually the structure model to which we refer. It was actually such that Svein Ludvigsen introduced structuring into the fleet. It was stopped by the Workers' Party eight years ago. They spent 18 months thinking, and then it turned out that this was the right way to go, and then they've been paying attention slowly to the fox, as we say in Finnmark, until they've come to a model that the industry's been crying and asking for in all these years. It's the part that has to do with structure, and that's the Svein Ludvigsen model. As far as legal certainty is concerned, I am amazed at the question. It is then clear that Lillian Hansen in this room – three times in this four-year period – has voted down proposals from the Right that go to legal certainty. The first thing we promoted was legal certainty in the aquaculture sector. Today, the Progress Party is dealing with some of the issues in terms of legal fees. The next proposal was on legal certainty for fishermen. The third was a general proposal on legal certainty for nutritionists. It should not be unknown to the representative what the Right believes about it, as she has voted against our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4604	I have noticed that the Right has developed double communications to an art in this election campaign. Now I notice that in the matters we are dealing with today, the Right argues quite strongly in the group and in the comments for the structuring of vessels below 11 meters, but they vote against the structuring of vessels below 11 meters in the form of decisions. What is that really Right meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4611	The right considers that there should be a possibility of structuring even for them below 11 meters. At the same time, in part of the local fishing teams and the counties, an argument has been raised against the structuring of the fact that, in the case of the fleet of vessels less than 11 metres, it is appropriate to be cautious with regard to the structure of the vessel. We've said that we've been positive all year in terms of structuring also for that part of the fleet, because it's an important fleet to modernise. It is also important that the fleet of vessels less than 11 metres should have such a large resource base that new boats can be built and more modern jobs created. We need to listen to the counties, including Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag, who has said it can be problematic with regard to recruitment. We are positive about this, but we are not voting in favour of the proposal. We want an investigation into the recruitment part here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4618	The right has long notified a counter-message to the maritime food message. We have not seen anything about this message, but it is announced that it will come – and the one waiting will see. I also want to add that the agricultural message to the right was anything but well received in the industry. In particular, the Right does not come forward with its own policy for the fisheries and aquaculture industry until after the Storting has completed the treatment of the maritime food notification. My question to the Right is therefore: What changes can we expect in terms of the Raw Fish Act, the new Fish Sale Act, delivery obligations and ownership of the aquaculture industry when the Right Counter-notification is presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4627	It's almost like that it shouldn't be allowed to write questions to the reply box until you've heard the post to the speaker. Now I explained relatively clearly our maritime food communication, what the meaning of it is. There are no rematches. It is not that we say anything in the comments in the matter, and then we say something else in the maritime food communication. The maritime communication is used to communicate to the industry what we mean is the direction of the marine food industry. It's actually a little disrespectful by the representative. First, she says that the agricultural message was not received well. It was very well received. If it had not been well received, the Right would not have been the second largest party among the farmers on polls. Well, we're capable of knocking down the boots of the Center Party -- we're living well with that -- but it's actually that the Right is a party to count on among the farmers as well. It will be that the Right really is counting on when we have delivered the message of our maritime food policy to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4636	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4639	Norway has natural premises to be the world's foremost maritime nation. We have a long coastline, and the continental shelf off the coast is an important spawning and breeding area. According to the Marine Research Institute, 70 pst. of all the fish in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea spawning area or growing area on the narrow continental shelf outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. Fishing resources and other marine resources are jointly owned. The fishing resources are renewable resources when we manage them effectively. A Joint Committee therefore emphasises the precautionary principle and ecosystem approach in fisheries management. Clean, rich and productive ecosystems are a means of achieving the goal of becoming the world's foremost maritime state. Marine resources laws stipulate that marine wild resources shall contribute to ensuring employment and coastal communities. SV is committed to pursuing a policy that takes account of this objective. Coastal fishing fleets, and not least the smallest fleet, are important for many communities, which also Right just admitted. The group under 11 meters is important for the bus ride along the coast. She is also important for recruiting for the fishing profession. Therefore, the government does not propose structuring in the group below 11 meters. There are different views of the economy of this group. Therefore, SV is pleased that it is proposed to dispose of the economy in the group. SV is committed to strengthening the economy without structuring. The world's foremost maritime capacity must also be at the forefront when it comes to marine research. This is an area where government priorities both in the maritime food message and in the research message. As we develop better fishing methods, it is important to have good knowledge of ecosystems. We also need research that can reduce costs both in the fisheries and in the fishing industry and that can increase market prices. Breeding industries have grown rapidly, and industry faces challenges in relation to environmental sustainability. It can have major consequences for the wild and other parts of the ecosystem if we don't take these challenges seriously. It can also destroy the economic power of the industry. Therefore, it is positive that a Joint Committee notes that further growth in the industry depends on addressing the environmental challenges and that one also addresses the challenges of feed in a resilient way. This is a ratio that has been updated since today's media look-up. Here it's natural to go over to talking about aquaculture laws. If we are to achieve the goal of the maritime food communication, it is important to have laws and regulations that can contribute to the environmental sustainability of the farming industry. It is important for the environment and for the industry itself. All experience from other industries shows that strict environmental requirements create innovation that benefits industry. Aquaculture law entered into force on 1 January 2006. It is now time to update some of the laws based on experience so far. Here, as often happens, prevention is the best. The government has proposed to amend the second paragraph of Section 10 so that the requirement to carry out preventive environmental work becomes clearer. There is something SV is busy about. Prevention is always the best environmental work – better than repair in retrospect. The Government also proposes to amend the second paragraph of Section 10 in order to allow the Ministry to introduce requirements for the labelling of fish. The aim is to better control the incorporation of escaped farmed fish into the river, and to trace them back to the farm – when we get adequate methods for it. It is important that in the further work on labelling, an emphasis is placed on animal health and good contact with the industry, to which a single committee has focused. The government also proposes to amend Section 11 in order to allow farmers to carry out or finance the necessary environmental research within their area of influence. The government also proposes to introduce an economic joint responsibility for the removal of escaped farmed salmon in the river. It's important and right that the industry cleans up afterwards. The Christian People's Party proposes to make the payments depending on the risk of escape in the plant. The intention may be good, but it may be difficult to find a fair practice of such differentiation. Finally, the goal of becoming the world's leading seamate is ambitious but realistic. We can achieve this by focusing on knowledge and management – for environmental and resource resilience.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4673	My question is related to the Aquaculture Act. The propulsion party believes that it is very important to get rid of farmed fish from the mermaids. We believe that escaped farmed fish are environmental pollution, and then the polluter pays principle. The government's answer in a case like this is a joint responsibility for financing a fund. In other words, it is not necessary to find the facilities from which it comes to apply the bill to them, so that a person is given a learning process and takes action. No, you want to move on with a solidly funded fund. This will mean that you will not get the effect you want, namely to trace back to the individual plant – it is actually technologically possible today. Why does SV vote against both the proposal on traceability by 2015 and the individual polluter pays?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4680	Firstly, I would like to say that we are in order to have a system that gives traceability back to the farms, but we must be sure that we have systems that work well, that take all the necessary animal health care and that are good in terms of quality. We believe that time is not ripe to establish that there are systems that we can put in place today. Until we have a system that can restore traceability to the right cause, it is possible to give solidarity on the basis of the principles contained in the message, which the discussion of the Department shows is in accordance with the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4685	I'm not going to use the cheap rhetorical point of double communication, but I'm going to give the representative Holmelid the opportunity to clarify a little on behalf of SV. At the much-mentioned anniversary year meeting of the Norwegian Redfish team in Tromsø, we were in a panel debate, a number of politicians. There was also a fresh young politician from Troms who represented SV. In the debate, when we started to discuss structure, he made clear that SV was against the structural system, SV was choosing to reverse it, and that there was opposition to all forms of liberalisation in this industry. The Swedish government has now announced that it is going for the structure model. Can you expect SV to run an election campaign, possibly in a new government, to start working against the structuring again?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4690	The SV is very pleased with this message, so far as the same thing that also Right has agreed on, that it is unfortunate for the smallest fleet, with vessels less than 11 meters, to structure. It's argued the Right very strongly for various times here in the hall, and also in other contexts. Now, SV and the government have come to the conclusion that we shouldn't have structuring below 11 meters, and it seems that the Right is also starting to end up on that line. When it comes to structuring vessels over 11 meters, there is still a discussion in our party. There are things in our party program that don't have government penetration at the current time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4697	SV wants to appear as an environmental party. They have done so on several occasions in terms of clean seas and the fishing industry in Lofoten and the West Seas, so that it has broken more than once in the conjugations of the government. But when it comes to the environmental problem related to the farming industry, we believe in the Christian People's Party that SV has been remarkably absent. Among other things, we were silent. questions about why the green concessions were declared as technology neutral. We have written comments on this, and we do not see anything about SV regarding support in this case. We are asking for progress in the labelling of farmed salmon, when we know that there is already a mature branding technology. Does not the representative Holmelid feel somewhat uncomfortable that SV is then to the degrees absent on environmental issues related to the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4704	I am very proud of what SV has done when it concerns the farming industry. Unlike the Christian People's Party, we've had a positive impact on green concessions, which is a real boost. For the first time, we really get pressure to improve the technology for the farming industry. I'm 110 pst. I'm sure -- it might have been a bit strongly said for a mathematician, but I'm very sure that the closed technology is so good that when there are concessions, we're sure to get applications based on closed technology. I'm also overconfident that the technology is going to win with the premises that are now made for the green concessions, so I really want the Christian People's Party to be offensive and get action, and not just demand action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4709	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4712	The history of Norwegian seafood is the story of how a thousand-year tradition of harvesting the sea's rich resources has laid the basis for Norway's being a major act of marine food today. Over 150 countries import wild caught and farmed fish from Norway. In all, Norway exports a total of 36 million seafood meals every day. In 2012, the export value amounted to a total of 51.6 billion. kr, which is Norway's third largest export industry. This is an industry for the future, and the choices we are making now will be crucial for both the industry and our viable coastal communities. The centre party is therefore satisfied with the government’s great vision in the maritime food announcement that Norway will be the world’s leading maritime nation. The centre party is committed to facilitating a forward-looking maritime food industry — an industry with a high potential for coastal development. It is therefore important that the notification covers the whole value chain, from primary to market. The government is committed to strengthening Norway’s already strong position as a seamat on the global market, thereby taking responsibility for increasing food supply and strengthening food security in a world of high population growth. To cope with this, we need to be knowledgeable in areas such as sustainable resource use, marine environment, climate, product development, quality and market. In the future, particular attention will be paid to market and marketing. At the same time, the Centre Party and the Government are committed to bringing maritime food to the benefit of the coast and the coastal population and contributing to the creation of viable coastal communities. For the Central Party, this perspective is crucial. Sustainable resource management is essential to ensure a viable maritime food industry. The Central Party and the Government want fisheries and aquaculture policy to be designed to help ensure profitable farms both on the sea and on land, and to achieve rural policy objectives such as jobs and settlement in coastal communities. The centre party is satisfied that the maritime feed notification determines that it will facilitate growth in the aquaculture industry. This industry has a high potential for growth and can become Norway’s new adventures at sea. We are also very concerned that it should facilitate a varied structure in the industry. The centre party is particularly concerned with the locally anchored companies, with many small and medium-sized enterprises – this is because, in particular, these enterprises are important community builders in their communities. The centre party is also satisfied that the notification announces that municipalities will receive part of the financial compensation from new concessions in the aquaculture industry. With this measure, municipalities are getting more back to put their areas at the disposal of the aquaculture industry. The centre batch is satisfied that the notification provides for a future spatial structure that takes into account small and medium-sized operators in the farming industry and takes into account the experience of local and voluntary work. The centre lot will underline the importance of this work when further arrangements are to be made for production areas, zones and fire holes. This means that the model launched in the Land Selection, or the so-called Gullestad selection, is not implemented. The centre will stress that important and coordinated work is already being done in the industry – with synchronised postponement and set-aside – and that it is important to build on the experience gained. We will also underline the importance of local and regional coastal zone planning. In this context, good interaction between the municipalities of the different regions and the county municipality is very important. Sustainable development is important for the aquaculture industry, and it is therefore of great importance that the industry continues to work on the challenges it faces in terms of lice and escape. These are areas that they need to pay a lot of attention in the future. The fishing industry is the basis for settlement in many coastal communities, and the Centre Party is committed to strengthening the fishing industry by ensuring a varied, profitable and forward-looking fleet that provides the basis for the recruitment and renewal of the coastal fleet. The centre party has always had a cautious approach to structure, but supports the government's proposal to adjust the quota base within the individual fleet groups, with a view to strengthening the profitability of the coastal fleet – this in order to clean up the various arrangements we have in the industry today for the ship groups above 11 metres, in order to ensure as much equality as possible. That's why we're very pleased that we're now getting an optional structure for the fleet over 11 meters. The group of vessels of less than 11 metres shall be allowed to continue as before – without structure – including the co-fishing system. We're satisfied with that in the Center Party. A separate study on quota access and profitability shall also be carried out for this group. Let me also stress that we call about the principles of the Raw Fish Act and the Participation Act, to which we come back. The seafood industry will have its own investigation in the future. That is very important. Seafood notification has been very well received along the coast. It shows that the red-green government is offensively betting to reach the vision of Norway as the world's leading maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4748	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4751	I quote from the proposal for a new Section 11 of the Aquaculture Act: ‘... shall carry out or cost the environmental studies necessary to demonstrate the state of the environment within the area of influence of the locality in the establishment, operation and closure of aquaculture’. Tests carried out on the release of fish along the coast show that escaped farmed fish will be recognizable along the whole coastline. If you release the fish outside of Rogaland, you can find it in More and Romesdal, Trøndelag, Nordland, Finnmark etc. My question to the representative is as follows: Where does the influence area end?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4771	It is particularly important that the industry meet the challenges of lice and escape. Here it is important that industry not least develops technology to ensure that you do not get escape. With regard to the area of influence – it is an important issue that the representative addresses – it is essential that we secure the facilities so that we do not get this situation. With regard to what I believe the representative is dealing with, the responsibilities – I believe that this is what the representative is really after – it is important that we commit ourselves to an administration that is not unreasonable to the individual actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4778	The delivery obligations have been an important and hot topic in the north for months. The purpose of the delivery obligations is to provide the industry with suitable raw material on land so that they can produce profitable products and keep people on the farms at work. With the government's fresh fish strategy and with the new ideas in the maritime food notification – to focus more on living storage of, among others. cod, so that production can be extended and raw material available when the market will be available – does the representative consider that assessing whether the coastal fleet could obtain part of the rights to which supply obligations are currently attached could be appropriate to fulfil more of the government’s visions? The coastal fleet can fish live fish, the coastal fleet can deliver excellent quality fresh fish, and the coastal fleet is, in fact, also so small that it can deliver to all the berths that today rely on universal service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4785	The centre batch is very clear that delivery obligations must be complied with. It was also on this basis that these concessions were given. The coastal fleet is currently very important for supplying very many plants with fresh fish. If the delivery obligations are not complied with in the future, you must have a new discussion about whom the rights should be granted. If this is the representative here, that the basis should then be moved to the coastal fleet, it will be taken up if the delivery obligations are not maintained – when the requirements are now tightened up. We are concerned by the fact that the coastal fleet has a strong role to play. It's still going to have that. At the same time, we know that very many farms were based on the maintenance of delivery obligations. We have to make sure that they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4794	Last November, the government issued a consultation note on universal service obligations for vessels with cod trawls. First of all, let me state that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party fully agree that universal service is an important measure – district policy and for jobs and housing in North Norway. The consultation note also shows that the universal service obligation is not fulfilled in Finnmark. An intrusion here is in its place. One of the things the government asked for feedback was to introduce processing obligations when it came to housing. 90 pst. the house of the country is to be processed. The answers have been received. There, in my opinion, it is unequivocally demonstrated that in the historical period, it has not been possible to make any money on filleting homes in North Norway. It could be good to hear the opinion of the representative – whether this is a consultation proposal that should be translated into practical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4801	To the question from Steinar Reiten, I would like to say that for the Central Party, it is superfluous that the delivery obligations are maintained. It is also important that the processing obligation is implemented. Then we'll see if there should be some adjustments to this proposal. The processing obligation is that you should not just be able to take the fish on land and then send it on. We are committed to providing shore-based jobs, and then it is important that it is required to be processed so that further activity can be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4808	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4811	The very title of the government maritime food communication is a Memorandum of Understanding with broad cross-political support. Our common vision is that Norway is going to be the world's leading maritime nation now and in the future. According to a report prepared by the government, Norwegian maritime food industry will have an economic sales potential of a total of 550 billion. NOK 2050, i.e. a six-fold increase in relation to today. The big question is: how can industry in dialogue and cooperation with political authorities achieve such an ambitious goal? Let me begin by stressing that the Christian People's Party is behind the vision of continued growth in all sectors of Norwegian seafood. At the same time, based on our ideological anchoring, we emphasise the principle of active management responsibility in terms of resources and the environment. We therefore note with satisfaction that the maritime communication contains a full chapter on sustainable management of natural resources. The Government assumes that the maritime food industry will continue to develop within the framework of social, economic and environmental sustainability. It is also underlined that the management of the marine food industry should be based on the principle of precautionary approach and ecosystem approach. These are strong, clear and important signals from the government that the Christian People's Party will support. In our practical policies, we will also do our utmost to ensure that these words are filled with content when political authorities set a framework for the administration of Norwegian seafood. In a brief article, it is not possible to address all aspects of the development of Norwegian seafood as described in the Maritime Food Communication. I must therefore confine myself to some matters that have been important to the Christian People's Party in its work on the processing of the message. The issue of the arrangement of the coastal-fleet quota system was raised in the context of the submission of the maritime feed notification. The government initially signaled an increase in the quota ceiling both for vessels over 15 metres and for vessels from 11 metres to 15 metres. At the same time, clear signals were given that the government wants increased specialisation for individual vessels in either the pelagic sector or the cod sector once the quota ceiling has been reached. The Government therefore expressed its objective of introducing a 4+2 quota allocation for vessels over 15 metres and 3+1 in the vessel group from 11 to 15 metres. We in the Christian People's Party have noticed that in their consultation opinions on the maritime food communication, Norway's Fish Team strongly argued against the fact that the coastal fishing fleet was to be forced into a system of increased specialisation. The Christian People's Party therefore called for voluntary action at an early stage for each vessel as regards quota allocation between the pelagic sector and the cod sector. Today, together with the Progress Party and the Right, we are promoting proposals to ask the government to ensure such freedom of choice by allowing the owner of vessels over 15 metres and the owner of vessels of categories 11 to 15 metres to choose an allocation of 3+3 or 2+2 within the quota ceiling, respectively. At the same time, we are pleased to see that all the parties – including the government parties – gradually concluded on what has always been the primary position of the Christian People's Party. This is a very important issue for coastal fishermen. It should therefore be a pleasure for the entire fishing industry to see politicians in all parties being willing to listen to factual and good arguments from fishermen’s own organisations. The willingness of the government to move as far as possible to adjust its own policy towards the recently issued notification also indicates flexibility and good listening ability. That is why we want to interpret the change in the course of the government positively in this matter. But there are also the benefits of the Christian People’s Party to the government. The maritime notification also contains a chapter on aquaculture, where the government draws up the lines for future framework conditions for the farming industry. Here it is several to put a finger on in the government's descriptions of environmental measures and balances between industrial and environmental considerations. We'll get back to that in a later article. Finally, I will mention an important situation in which the Christian People's Party appears to be standing alone with its position. All the batches in Stortinget will provide some compensation to the municipalities for the establishment of farming facilities. The majority want this to be a one-off remuneration in the form of part of the concession fee. On the other hand, the Christian People's Party proposes a model similar to that envisaged by the fjord and coastal network municipalities in its consultation opinion, namely an annual fee calculated on the basis of the area of the farms. We then assume that this should not lead to an increase in the costs for the breeding companies, but that the area tax should be deductible by offsetting the tax. On behalf of the Christian People's Party I promote the proposals No. One, two, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4834	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4839	The Christian People's Party seems to agree – regardless of whether it is a farm or not – with much of our fisheries policy. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship to sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry. We have good, common comments on this – structuring the fleet below 11 metres, the quota year, recruitment quotas and universal service, and not least on the importance of linking fisheries policy to regional policy considerations. In today's Fisherman's newspaper, we can also read about comments where the Advance Party and the Right have found together, which the Christian People's Party does not support. With this background, the treatment we have now had, it looks as if there is a long way to reaching agreement between the Christian People's Party and the right parties in the fisheries policy. I'm going to use the same words that were used against SV: Does the Christian People's Party feel comfortable standing closer to the red-green than the right parties in the fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4846	I would first of all like to say that I think it is good to note that we are perceived as being clear on issues relating to fisheries policy and rural policy. We were in Tromsø together, and the representative Hansen knows that I too was very clear and said clearly from among others. that the principle that the fishing side should have the last word for fixing the minimum price is established for us, in addition to the principle of universal service for vessels with cod trawl concessions. There I also said that this is a principle that is important to us, even when we are going to negotiate with the other party. We are willing to talk to everyone, but I think my good colleagues in the Right and the Advance Party too will agree that when we are going to reach agreement, perhaps not the first thing we are going to start talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4851	The Christian People's Party is concerned about the environment when it comes to aquaculture. The government proposes to amend Section 11 of the Aquaculture Act so that we can oblige operators to pay the necessary environmental studies. That note does not end with a Christian People's Party in the setting. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4857	The reason for this is that in the Christian People's Party in that note, we also saw between the lines that this principle of solidarity, where everyone has to pay equally, lies within. We have said in a special remark that we believe that such a system will give a disincentive as long as everyone has to pay the same amount, one will have no ‘drive’ to introduce new technologies that can reduce the risk for, among other things. lice and escape of fish. So instead of a model in which companies, when they can prove that they have implemented measures to improve safety and the environment, want to pay less for such a scheme and thus get an economic incentive to introduce new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4862	In the comments on the amendment to the Aquaculture Act, the Christian People's Party is not part of the comment that describes the breeding industry as a success story, with the growth industry has had and the impact it has had on employment and coastal value creation. In other comments, the Christian People's Party expresses itself very critically to the farming industry. My question to the Christian People's Party is therefore: Does the Christian People's Party see that the farming industry, with its diversity of ownership, with many small and medium-sized enterprises, as a cornerstone of many coastal communities with great potential for development, or is the Christian People's Party committed to introducing a management and requirement that will make it impossible for these companies to develop further?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4869	I'm glad of that question. Well, the Christian People's Party believes that this is a very important industry, which has the potential to grow. But the message speaks of economic, social and biological sustainability. In order for development to be characterised as a success, it is necessary to operate in accordance with all the sustainability criteria. In terms of the volume of fish in the sea, it has been a success. In terms of the number of jobs created and the values created, it has certainly been a success. But when it comes to the environment, in fact, we in the Christian People's Party believe that it's a good time to say that the farming industry has been an unconditional success for the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4874	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4877	This is one day I've been looking forward to, and the jam became fish in all the canals today – although it might not have been exactly the seafood message that went back in today's news picture. We have a long and rich history as a seamate, and today's debate is about how we can manage this proud history and take Norway further as the world's leading maritime nation. With the maritime food message, we take the choices that make it possible to realise the enormous potential outlined for this industry. We got it communicated through the report that said we can reach a turnover in the industry of 550 billion. NOK by 2050, in Norway. Obviously, it's going to be if we take in the growth of the world's population. At the same time, we know that much of the land's potential agricultural area is used, while only barely 2 pst. of the food resources come from the sea, which actually amounts to 70 pst. of the globe. Kofi Annan said when he visited the AquaVision conference in Stavanger: «I have little knowledge of aquaculture, but I can so much about hunger». His message to us was clear. It was not primarily the fish he wanted us to contribute, but the knowledge. Science, research, innovation and development are a red thread through the Communication. We are quite clear that we need to strengthen marine research. Annually, we're using 3 billion. kr on marine research. The public accounts for a large part of marine research, with over 60 pst. funded by the authorities. We need to strengthen the public sector, but the industry must also be involved. That is why I have proposed to increase the research fee, which is in practice a large layer of sprawl from different parts of the industry, and to allow it to also be used for measures that increase the overall competence of the industry. Investing in and further developing and developing the enormous knowledge that fishermen, breeders and others have, is one of the best investments we can make. It is precisely the close interaction between the seafood industry and the supplier industry that has made it possible for us to provide equipment for fishing and farming worldwide, and we – the government – will build up during this interaction. Two years ago, I asked some of Norway's best environments of competence at the intersection of research and industrial development to collect input from the research communities and industry – and advise us on how we should strategically address research efforts in the marine areas. Their work was addressed in the report ‘HAV21 – a port of formats’. The report will be followed up in the Marine knowledge promise action plan. We hope to be able to present the action plan as early as autumn. Another carrier in the Storing Message is profitable. The debate on the structure of the fishing fleet illustrates the interaction between politics and regulation in an industry where we reap the life of the sea. Stronger investment in research has given us increased knowledge of marine populations. Regulation and strategic efforts to cooperate with our neighbouring countries on resource management have contributed to solid populations. Nature, however, limits what we can take out. On the other hand, technological development and improved methods have enabled fishermen to operate more efficiently and with fewer crews. If fishermen are to have incomes that provide profitable operation, and not least the means to invest, income must follow the development of prices and wages in society. This is important for recruitment. In the maritime food notification we open up so that the fishermen can gather several fish quotas on one boat. That means there will be fewer boats and fewer fishermen. Some ask if it's negative. To that is the answer that it is not a goal in itself to have as many fishermen as possible. But it is absolutely an important goal that people will become fishermen – that it is seen as an attractive profession, that it provides a good income to live off, and that fishermen, like farm owners, can invest in their business. Fishermen shall also be able to combine fishing with a life on land. Then we also have to give them the opportunity to increase their profitability and to drive more together on one boat. The latter has to do with increased security. On this issue, we have been very busy having dialogue with the fishermen themselves, and I would like to take the opportunity to praise the Norwegian Fisheries Team for the good cooperation we have had on this and on other issues. Profitability is also crucial for industry — the land part of the marine food industry. It is challenging to run fish processing in a country with high compensation of employees, but it is absolutely possible. The government has an ambition that we will continue processing more of the fish in Norway. It's not only because we want the jobs that the process itself provides – that's important enough – but we send fish out of the country without processing, we not only miss the value creation, but also the residual raw material and the opportunities it provides for new knowledge-based business. The world's foremost seamath must also have the ambition to be the best in the world on marine oils, proteins and other components. Let me say that sustainability is a starting point for everything we do – especially environmental sustainability, although the other two components of sustainability are also important. In the Single European Act, we propose important measures on the environment to help the maritime food industry continue to be an environmental industry. The changes we propose in the Aquaculture Act are a lot about strengthening the environmental chapter in the law. The supplier industry is given an important place – an area with a high potential. There are many framework conditions that politicians set for the industry. The most important thing for an export-oriented industry, despite the fact that I believe the message we are discussing here today is the world's most important, I still have to admit that a secure economic policy is more important. I must therefore take this opportunity to stress that the situation for parts of the industry – especially in the whitefish industry – is demanding. This situation comes, I'm afraid, to persist for a while, and then this is not the time for economic gambling, and I will warn against the Progress Party's approach to the rule of action. I am a defender of a tight economic policy – not because I don't want more roads in the districts, but because the consequence of irresponsible use of money can quickly be that there is no longer a fishing reception at the end of the same road. A few weeks ago, a group of committed students in the field of chemical process technology at NTNU sent me a project work. The project was about macroalgae, or many in good Norwegian would call it seaweed. They point to potential uses such as human food, animal feed and, in particular, biofuels. If biofuels from macroalgae are an alternative to biofuels produced on possible food soils, ask the students. I think that's a good question. I do not have the answer – that is why I want more people to ask such questions and want to find answers. The potential to increase the production from the sea is perhaps greater than we are now fully able to understand. With this big message, we are preparing the reason why we can become “the world’s foremost maritime nation”.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4927	It's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4930	I have two quick questions for the Council of State. Can the Council of State order that the sale of shares in companies which have been expanded as a result of the repeal of the 25 pst rule be made subject to restrictions of ownership — so that we can clean it up in this Chamber? Question number two is related to cephalopods. It has now been authorised to have seine fish up to one kilogram on land before it is released into the sea. The question to the Council of State is: how is this fish categorized? Will the fish be considered as part of a food fish concession — which will limit how much a farm can have on land — or could it be a possibility that this is a set fish? Because if you slaughter this fish – when it weighs one kilogram and does not put it back into the sea – you can actually create a new product that does not go beyond the food fish concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4935	I can absolutely demand that we force shares. That being said, the question should have been asked in a different way. The representative Nesvik asked the question: What will happen if you break an agreement already entered into? This legislation and these regulations are now being consulted – with a deadline for consultation on 20 June. It will of course be the aquaculture law – and the sanctions we have in the aquaculture law – that will apply. It will depend on the number of penalties you may have, and in the utmost consequence, it is obvious that the withdrawal of a concession may be an instrument. I assume that the companies are complying with the agreements concluded in this area. I record that the most affected company thought it was wise, but tough demands were made in a new ownership control legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4940	From a sustainability point of view, we talk about economic sustainability, ecological sustainability – social sustainability. In the field of aquaculture, sustainability has grown, innovate and improved over the years. Now you've come to the point that you have to set the requirements first, and maybe you can join in, and then you don't have to get information about the opportunities for growth if you get a concession. We have proposed that we look at a model where growth is more predictable, while following strict sustainability criteria with it – using predictable growth and the ability to increase production and profitability while reinforcing the eco-sustainable innovation model: does the Council of State see that it can be a way to go, so that we at least reach the growth we want?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4952	It is possible that it is a long day and I am not quite there, but I am a little in doubt about what the question really was. I'll put that on my coat. What we have done in terms of growth is just to demand future growth on environmental sustainability. Some environmental parameters have to be met here. It is not least that the fish are to be inside the cage, that they are to be proven to be as safe as possible, and that they are to be proven to have new, good lice-related solutions. Then it becomes up to the different actors to show that they have solutions that satisfy it. I think it's a pretty common way of achieving important goals in different areas. Industry – what we can call the old-fashioned industry – has been brought forward. The car industry is perhaps the best example where environmental results have been demanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4960	The Government enters the maritime food notification in order to introduce a principle of average rolling maximum permissible biomass. In this regard, we in the Christian People's Party are a little concerned, because as far as we understand that principle, that means that in parts of the year there will be some significant more fish in the sea than it has now done. It may also be at times of the year in which the sea temperature is high, with major problems with salmonillus. Is there a concern the Council share – that the lice problem can be exacerbated by the average rolling MTB? Or is it a problem that the Council of State thinks is settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4967	What we've said and written is that it's an interesting way of looking at future demarcation. But precisely with the background that these are things we have to clarify – what that will mean, for example. lice and, in particular, what it can mean in terms of the market – we have said that we need to undergo some thorough analysis of that issue. We have notified this through the message, and that is a work we will of course do. We need to have good knowledge of the effects of an average rolling MTB. But when that is said, I have a great deal of understanding – especially with regard to the part of the salmon industry that is engaged in further processing – that it is a major challenge for them to be able to deliver 364 days a year with the fixed MTB, as it is now. But we're going to figure out the effects of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4974	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4977	One shall not have been on the Norwegian coast for a long time until it has been known that fisheries policy is a difficult balance. In my opinion, therefore, it should be well done to provide a wide-ranging maritime food communication in the maritime food sector. But it actually has the government this time ready to do. There are a number of measures in a number of areas proposed in the Maritime Food Communication and the consultation highlighted the broad support for the Communication. It was also a broad support for the structure proposed by the government – in the hearing. However, there was one point of appeal in relation to the structural arrangements proposed, and it was that most wanted a greater degree of freedom of choice in relation to the structural system. That's what we've done. We haven't turned around, but we've listened, and then we've met what was the only significant appeal to the maritime food message that was presented. In this way, it has been well implemented, and we have met the fishermen's views in relation to the maritime food communication that has been submitted. So we have a maritime food report with a number of measures that are being launched, so that we can achieve our goals and visions that lie ahead of Norway as a seamate in the next few years, and not least participate in an increase in value creation that is possible. From the time when the maritime food notification was presented – and perhaps some time before – the right notified its alternative message, as the rapporteur had already stated. Then it's tried to talk away in this room that this message has not now been submitted. I thought the Right had a self-interest in that the Storting could see what the Right thought about the seafood sector when one has this treatment. But they didn't choose to do that. They have decided not to present it, but they will certainly bring it later this week. I think that's very strange, as long as they have to write alternative messages, as they did with the agricultural message. And I think I'm going to have to freshen up Hill-Jensen's memory. At least my experience was not that it was well received. The only place it could have been well received in that case must have been in the Right House. So the Right is trying to make a point that we're now going back to Ludvigsen's time. No, fortunately we don't. Yes, we are implementing a continuation of the structural quota system. But it's a basic principle that's not in the majority now doing, and it's proposing eternal quotas. So if there's something to stress that the fishing resources are the property of the community, then it's not to allocate eternal quotas. Through the position that exists, I am uncertain whether the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have left what they thought in 2007. Then they were very for eternal allowances. It would have been possible to clarify in this debate on the Christian People's Party and the Right now it seems to be okay with the time limit that exists, or not. I think I have read about the attitude that the Progress Party is for eternal allowances as long as there is negotiability – sale and purchase – of allowances. So they've at least maintained their point of view from 2006. But it's okay to clarify it, because it's quite essential for how one then thinks about the resources. I am very pleased that the Minister for Fisheries makes very clear the comment that we have made on concessions. If the conditions are not met, concessions may be revoked. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. If the authorities impose concession requirements, whether they are owned in excess of 25 p.m. or there are other conditions in relation to a concession, the conditions must be met and followed up in retrospect. There is a consequence that the conditions are set – something else would be very unreasonable. So finally, in the case of the Aquaculture Act, everyone agrees that sustainability is important. But at the other points, where one goes in order to set stricter rules and stricter conditions and regulations in relation to environmental sustainability, the opposition cracks in all directions. I have to find out, or I think it would be uncomfortable to be KrFs in that confession.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4990	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e4993	The fish in the sea has been our gold for hundreds of years. Marine nutrition has a significant impact on coastal value creation, employment and housing. If we manage the resources correctly, we actually have something forever. Norway can't be the best in the world at all, but we have to be knowledge leaders in the areas where we have strategic advantage, and a strategic advantage we really have within seafood. When it comes to the area, our coastal and marine areas make up seven times our land area, and in several areas Norway is all the world's foremost maritime state. We are the world's second largest exporter of seafood, our management of fisheries and aquaculture is among the most important in the world when it comes to competence, the design of regulations, the ability to implement regulations and other measures, not least within the framework of sustainability. The seafood industry relies on profitable enterprises to secure future development and growth. The fish resources are the community's property and are therefore to be used in a way that promotes the highest possible value creation through the entire value chain, within sustainable frames. There are good measures in the maritime food communication to strengthen the framework conditions of the seafood industry, including: the commercial responsibility for raw material quality and raw material processing is strengthened and added to the fish salad layers and more targeted market righting, technology and product development and use of residual raw materials. It is good that a selection is set up to review its framework conditions in a NOU, which should include measures to increase profitability and value creation in a market perspective. The selection shall also assess regional effects and use viable production. The Labour Party is also very satisfied with the recording from the hearing in the committee, and the case-leader's view on structuring is followed, and thus giving us the freedom to structure over 11 meters. This will strengthen our nourishment. Earlier today, we discussed the research message, and we in the Working Party are happy to strengthen the publicly funded marine research contained in the message. A maritime knowledge leap and an action plan for marine research and competence are important measures to ensure profitability and resilience. The raising of knowledge is not just about more money for research. We also need to ensure that the research is applied to the right areas and that the research is used. The industry must have access to the labour force with the right skills. Increases in recruitment rates may be an important contribution here. It is also important that we strengthen both the long-term basic research and the user-friendly research. There is a growing need for food in the world, and Norway can play a central role in increasing food production. Our goal, therefore, is for Norway to become the world's foremost seammate, and the maritime food message attracts important ambitions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5016	The Government underlines in the message the objective of having an aquaculture industry that provides ecologically sustainable food production and of having an aquaculture industry that takes care of environmental and disease concerns. I have great faith that Norwegian aquaculture has a great future, but it is obvious that the industry has major sustainability challenges. It's not acceptable. Escapes continue to be a problem and spread of lice and diseases. This has to be solved. Increased control of production conditions is needed. Closed cages give you such control, and I think it'll win. We're not just going to be the world's largest exporter of farmed fish, we're going to have to be the most prominent in terms of quality. In the long term, the quality is necessary for the future of the industry. I eat farmed fish without being afraid of health, and I share the view of the Food Authority that the health benefit of eating farmed fish is greater than the risk of health problems with the same fish. But there is no reason to stop work to eliminate the health risks of farmed fish. We must not have a situation where short-term benefits go beyond sustainability or quality considerations. That means we have to be busy with the feed for the fish. Today is over 70 pst. of the fish feed vegetable. The proportion of omega 3 in the fish has fallen sharply at the expense of omega 6. Omega 6 we have too much of, while the reason for eating fish is that we're going to get into Omega 3. But the fish becomes like us -- a result of what it eats. In the case of fish feed from marine resources, the problem is that the fish acquire environmental toxins. The tear that we drink is purified for these pollutants. Norwegian fish food is under strong control, so that what is delivered to the market remains below the maximum levels. Parts of the industry are also working against the EU to raise these limit values, but I believe that we should be concerned about how we can ensure that the content of Omega 3 is large in fish, that there is still a fish – not a liquid chicken, as some people call it – and how we can further reduce environmental pollution, so that we can proudly say to the world that we bring them sustainable and healthy food.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5029	I continue on the same track as my good committee colleague, Lars Egeland, who made an important contribution to the aquaculture industry and sustainability. Marine industry is very important to many coastal communities in terms of employment and value creation today, and we hope and believe that industry will become even more important in the future. At the same time, in the Christian People's Party, we are aware that further growth requires the control of negative environmental impacts from farms. Before it is achieved, we cannot allow a growth in total biomass that will, in turn, impose an increased burden on the environment. We are pleased that the government will now introduce sustainability indicators and limits for the evacuation of farmed salmon and for the spread of salmon. We are similarly disappointed with the defensive use of words from the government regarding the description of procedures for exceeding limit values, because in the maritime food notification, the words ‘estimate measures’ are used consistently even after verification of the state shows that the limit values have been exceeded. We believe that it is natural to take action. The Christian People's Party is also disappointed that the government has chosen to make the announcement of so-called green concessions technology neutral. We find that the technology for closed installations has reached a level of maturity that makes it ready to be used on a commercial basis. Therefore, we believe that closed installations and/or other new technologies should be required as a prerequisite for the award of green concessions. The Government proposes in Prop. 103 L to introduce an authorisation to require the labelling of farmed fish. The Christian People's Party supports this proposal. At the same time, we record that mature branding technology already exists, including: snout marking for the purposes of vaccination. This type of marking makes it possible to trace escaped fish back to individual plants. We therefore believe that there is no reason for it to go out in time with a regulation that requires the labelling of farmed fish. As it will be relatively easy to introduce effective labelling at an affordable price for the industry, we also believe it would be wrong to introduce a system of financial joint responsibility to remove run-off farmed salmon in rivers. The Government proposes this in Prop. 103 L. Christian People's Party believes that as long as the payments to the fund are not differentiated on the basis of security measures and risks of escape, the scheme will provide incentives for investing in technological developments in the form of safer facilities, as the burden of escape is shared equally. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that the government instead introduce an arrangement whereby payments to the cleaning up fund are differentiated on the basis of factors such as: the level of safety in installations, the traceability of fish and other safety measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5044	Through the maritime food notification that we are now discussing, the government shows that it is committed to strengthening Norway's already strong position as a seamate on the global market, thus taking responsibility for increasing food supply and strengthening food security in a world of high population growth. The communication says a lot about what this will require of us and clearly shows that the need for knowledge in a number of areas will be great in the years to come. The maritime communication is, as we see it, a saying for diversity, for the locally anchored companies in the aquaculture industry. In the Central Party, we are very pleased that the Committee of the Regions' proposal for the management of marine areas is now being abandoned in its original form. The proposals of the so-called Gullestad Committee literally favored the largest nationwide companies in the aquaculture industry, and therefore we have fought a fight against this. For those parts of the country that have many small and medium-sized breeders, many with their own slaughterhouses, this sample’s proposal might have meant that after three years of operation they would have had to set up the facilities in the fourth year, with the serious consequence that the sale of locally owned farms would have been the only solution. This could have been very challenging for vital coastal fishing communities, knowing the enormous positive effects of local ownership in the farming industry. On the part of the Centre Party, we have been concerned with small and medium-sized locally owned farms – that they will maintain their activity and be able to grow. There has long been an expression of concern among small and medium-sized breeding companies for the proposals of the Land Committee, and it is therefore a great relief for the industry that it is now able to look ahead and strengthen its activity. The centre party has always fought the battle on behalf of the many small communities along the coast, and this is very important. The centre lot is also engaged in ensuring a profitable traditional fishing industry. Seafood notification alerts measures to strengthen the coastal fleet in order to ensure recruitment and renewal. Our starting point for that work was to strengthen the quota base for the coastal fleet between 11 and 15 meters, and to get as much equal arrangements as possible for the coastal fleet over 15 meters. The centre party has always been detained and skeptical of comprehensive structural policies. Thus, for vessels below 11 metres, the message is not structured, which is what we in the Centre Party are satisfied with. But the message alerts an investigation into quota access and profitability for this fleet group, which we believe is right, in view of the challenges faced by the fleet group today. Finally, the centre party is committed to strengthening the profitability of the seafood industry, and we think it is positive that a separate public body is now being set up to propose measures to increase the profitability of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5063	We all know how important the marine resources have been and are today, and will be for Norway in the future as well. But when we see the empty press release, you shouldn't think it was like that. The coast is an incredibly important resource source for all of us. That's why it's so important what we do politically. The vision of being the world's leading maritime nation is very demanding, but if we provide development opportunities for a differentiated fleet, a living coastal community and a top-class land-based industry, this vision is very realistic. We must not lose sight of the important regional policy role that fisheries and the seafood industry have and must have in the years to come. In my view, there is nothing to suggest that this should be a competitive backbone in the future – rather the opposite. Important in this picture is that recruitment to the industry is such that this important potential can be exploited over time. I believe that this is now being followed up in a good way through, among other things. the recruitment quotas. Sustainable management, good resource control and combating illegal fishing, etc. has helped to strengthen populations in a way that everyone now sees the benefit of. This is what the red-green government has to pay tribute to. The Norwegian shrimp industry today consists of five companies. Three of these are in Troms County, and they are of great importance there. These are top modern businesses, but international competition is high, and the lack of raw materials is an increasing challenge. I think it would be very sad if such a traditional and important part of the fishing industry were to have to stop the operation for those reasons. That is why I hope that work will be done in the future to find good solutions to ensure that this industry is able to operate properly. I am very pleased that a joint committee has made it very clear that the marine resources are the property of the community. That's the way it should be. The importance of the marine industry for our coastal communities is indisputable. In my opinion, it facilitates further growth in the aquaculture industry within a sustainable framework along our coast. In order to have housing, employment and value creation, we need a forward-looking fishing industry, as this message puts it very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5078	This is a good report from the government, which shows the breadth of the industry. The Aquaculture Act provides a good framework for those engaged in fishing. Seafood is one of the most important industries in the Western world. In Hordaland we have farming facilities inside our feathers, and we have wild fish – side by side. Then we have large fishing boats off the coast, as in the municipality of Austevoll. It is important that this industry is sustainable, to which it has been subjected, in view of the balance between the farming industry and the environment – environmental considerations. The Hordalands bench here at Stortinget has regular meetings with the industry – with those representing the farming industry, and with those representing those interested in the wild. I would like to give an example of how to get hold of the wild axis in order to be able to keep it, namely the Vossol axis. One has had a project with Uni Research, which has worked hard to hatch the eggs on the stem that belongs to the Vossolak. I, who is from Voss, remember these English Lords who came to Bolstad, who were there to fish. My point is that travel life and the framework have this, and all those who have rights in the fjords and in the rivers in the case of salmon and other fish, are important in order for us to be able to keep the frames around the environment, so that both parts can be side by side. Then research is very important – it is with new technology, look at how we can manage to stop the escape of salmon or other farmed fish, and also with lice. We've come a long way there. I also feel that the farming industry is accommodating and will bring this to life. Is it possible to have more land installations, is it possible to have more closed installations at sea, and is it possible to get those facilities further into the sea? These are things that we have to look at, and that will also improve the environmental. Is it possible that we can use alternative medication on the fish? And not least that with food: how are we going to feed the fish that we're using for food? Then there shall be profitability at all stages of the value chain for the fishing industry. The question then is: Can we manage to have more processing in Norway — is it possible in view of the strong competition that is out there? One important point there is how we structure the fleet, which is what the message takes up, and which is good. Then to the framework conditions in the industry. The fact that the Hardangerfjord regulation was withdrawn was fine for the farming industry in Hordaland, but anyway: bringing what is going to happen with the wild game is important. Norway shall have an international role in food safety. That's where we have to go in front, because that's what we have opportunities and resources to do. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to those who work with the law of the sea – a political field that also helps to make Norway one of the world’s leading maritime states, by facilitating Norwegian maritime rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5102	And to look forward, we also have to look backwards. When the former Minister for Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen made the trawls universal service compulsory, he did a great wrong to the fishing communities that depend on fishing. This is particularly true of Northern Ireland — and to an even greater extent of Finnmark. The settlement along the coast of Finnmark is due to only one thing: large access to fish. The Trolls that got the gold-plated beam concessions took them in, and they were perfectly aware of the conditions. The fish was to be delivered at specific facilities, in specified municipalities or regions. The aim was to obtain raw material for the fishing industry and activity on land. The Trolls had universal obligations. This changed Svein Ludvigsen to offer. The obligation to supply was subsequently so eroded that very little of the fish that was to land in Finnmark became the country in Finnmark. The fish ended up in a freezer hotel in Tromsø, in Ålesund or elsewhere, just not where to land it – in Finnmark. The coastal population in Finnmark has had a legitimate claim: that the fish given to Finnmark should be delivered to and create activity in Finnmark. We are pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has been consulted on changes in the conditions of supply for cod trawls and that the department is working on these changes. As a representative of Finnmark, I expect tightening. I know that once a release is given, it's hard to reverse. But this is about the community's resources and political governance of an industry. Political governance must also take account of jobs both at sea and on land. In addition, we know that the market situation for Norwegian fish is now very difficult, with large quotas, low prices and a financial crisis in Europe – Norway’s main market. I'm a little surprised by the fuzzy comments on the right, and it's been Right's style lately. The right is saying that it's unfortunate that the government, when it puts down a sample to look at universal service, in a short period of time comes with different signals to the industry. They do not say that it is unfortunate and unworthy of coastal communities that the fish that are subject to concession and are to be delivered to facilities such as: Mehamn, don't get there. Frank Bakke-Jensen has provided this confusion in every debate on universal service, and his party, Right, is also continuing to deal with this matter. It is hardly without reason that the Right does not flag its view in this matter. Frank Bakke-Jensen knows that there is overwhelming support across Finnmark for tightening delivery obligations. I welcome the tightening up and believe that the terms of the concession should be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5115	We in SV are not just concerned with the environment; we are also concerned with solidarity, and we are very proud that this message contains a chapter on international development cooperation. It is a little surprising that no one else has mentioned this so far in the debate, so I thought that we cannot have such a debate but that it will finally be brought up. When 70 pst. of the world’s seafood production is happening in developing countries – a large part in small-scale fisheries – we know that if we can contribute to our competence, so that one can take care of these resources in a resilient way, and take good care of further processing, it is perhaps one of the best developments we can do, in the sense that we can transfer the skills that are affordable to use. It will be very important to work together on management skills, in addition to the skills of bearers and fisheries. If small-scale fishermen can avoid large international groups coming and taking food out of their hands, we have done a great deal for the world's poor population. So investing in fishing, where we have wide management skills, is important. Perhaps as important as investing in cooperation on oil management, it is to bet on cooperation on fisheries management. We also have long traditions through research vessels, and we are now told in the message that we will have a new one in 2016. This is a matter that hastens to be seen clearly on the map when we have such a discussion, to see the breadth of our fishing competence in terms of what we can do internationally, not only in order to distribute our own resources to the rest of the world, but to help the rest of the world to take care of its resources. So I just want to take a little line on the representative, Reten, considering the discussion we had in a reply on environmental monitoring. If you look at the note, the Christian People's Party is also outside when it is providing support for individual environmental monitoring – and not just solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5128	I'll bring in another moment in the debate. Now there's probably more people here who start sweating, and they say, "Should we have a new debate?" Yeah, we should actually have. This message is on 139 pages. Sea mammals are not mentioned. So we're not going to assume that marine mammals are also part of what the sea and sea give us. This resource is being harvested. So this communication – and in this debate we have had – has not allowed room to take on the fact. It's a fact that we have a whale population, a wave whale population, which is in very good standing, on which we can catch more, which gives us fantastic good food, and which we have to exploit in a good way. We have a cell stock that is completely out of control, where we have to bring down the stock, precisely because of the amount of fish that the selenium eats. In this context, it's a little strange that we haven't found room to take that debate here. The different predators affect each other, and it's clear that if the whale population and the cell population continue to grow, it will eventually go beyond the quotas and what we can take out of biomass on our different fish stocks. It's worrying when we see the number of cell cuts going into the ice to catch. It's worrying when we see the population growing – we remember a few years back in time, when we got a selinvation along the coast. I am afraid that we can get one of these situations again, where our fjord fishermen will not be able to sell their products because of illness and crosshairs. It is very strange that we have not taken the time to ensure that this is addressed in this debate. It is just as much the responsibility of the Progress Party that we have not submitted any comments on this. That's why I chose to use this post to talk about the importance of making sure that we keep up these populations, which affect each other. Then we have to make sure that the receiver for the harness is in place. Then we have to make sure that our whalers have the framework conditions to be able to catch what they're going to do. Then we have to make sure that the legislation relating to whether you enter or leave a zone to catch the wave wave wave is of a more or less academic nature related to these regulations, when we know that it is the same stock. These things we have to take with us, and we have to expect it to be caught better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5141	I'm just going to sign out some of the recordings that have been made today. With regard to industrial policy, there is an important point for the Right that it should be as predictable as possible and that the framework conditions for traders should be as long-term as possible. It's also part of the things that we've focused on in our notes. So the head of the business committee, Terje Aasland, was up and criticized the Right for not having presented our own maritime food report now, and said that the Storting must know what is Right Policy. Well, the Storting knows what is Right Policy through the proposals we have made during this four-year period, and through the comments we have made in the setting of the big message. It is not the case that the head of the Business Committee has not been involved in the process and has not been able to read comments. The maritime food message we deliver, we deliver to communicate what is our industrial policy – as we have said earlier today – and it is to come. So a small point in relation to the eternal quota: it is so much an important debate, but remember that eternal quota does not give eternal life! You can sometimes get the impression of that in the debate. It's not like that. There is an accounting question about the length of your right to catch and the type of depreciation rules to be used financially in the accounts. To the debate on the eternal quota, and that there was someone who put it on for 400 years: it's not that bad. But it's an important point in accounting, I can be a part of it. So finally, to the representative Olsen from Finnmark regarding the delivery obligations: I am aware that it is pleasant to paste ourselves to the fact that we are unclear here. Now it is the case that we have made proposals in Stortinget on a review of the delivery obligations, with the aim of obtaining a regulation that meets the purpose of the delivery obligations. Everyone agrees. This raw material shall be on land and shall create activity on land. Then we're accused of saying more things. Erna Solberg has said that where there is an obligation to a right, the obligation must be respected – simply and correctly. That means Right – I have said that, Svein Flätten has said that, and Erna Solberg has said that. If you don't believe it, it's okay. But initially, it's as simple as we've said, and we think it's time to review the delivery obligations. The regulation, as it exists today, does not apply to the time we live in. We record that the Council of State has reached the same conclusion, so that job has now started.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5156	I thought for a while that I was going to be the last speaker in this debate, so I was really going to thank for a good debate, but now I see that someone has signed up for me. However, as the rapporteur, I would like to thank you for a good debate, which has been quite predictable and marked by the fact that we are in an election campaign. I think the other representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has a strange way to get out of the criticism that they haven't even come across a counter-message to our maritime food report. I find it strange because the representative Bakke-Jensen was early outside – yes, on the same day – and criticised our maritime food report at the moment, and announced that they would come forward with a counter-message. Then it is not so nice that it is sought both politically and also in the industry. So what have we heard here today? Yes, the Right will suddenly – or is uncertain if they will – structure the fleet below 11 meters. The right is diffuse on what is their overall and future fisheries policy, and we live in uncertainty until we get the so-called counter-communication. Then I want to say that we have a election campaign, and I will once again clarify – as I have said several times in debates here in Stortinget – that it is not the policy of the Right that has changed, it is the rhetoric. The policy will gradually prove to be exactly the same. Ingelill Olsen had in his post right in that very thing. When you hear at the top of the story that the agricultural industry accepted the Right-wing counter-communication, many react with me. That industry said at the time, we don't get saturated by tax havens. That's what the farmers said. We have also heard in today's debate that there will be no refuting of adopted policies, which we are debating today, in the Right-wing Counter-Report. That's good. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, I only have a summary to make, and that is that liberalisation is too slow. It was part of the previous programme for the Progress Party. It is possible that it does not now – we can basically sum up this debate with. I would like to say that I look forward to continuing to maintain the government power, so that we can activate the maritime food message that we will adopt today. Marine nutrition in Norway has a bright future. With regard to the notification of marine mammals, I called for it early in the process and got feedback that there is a current policy that applies to the notification of seafood and marine mammals, which I thought was very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5175	If what we just heard was a summary of the debate, and that the debate should now be over, I have to make a comment that opens the debate again – then I think we have to put our words a little differently. The posts that are kept here from the opposition parties, with the same message – the same post – for soon five times, I expect that we are now running again. I've got a lot of time. There is not so much I am going to do tonight, and I have as case rapporteur in the second case the unlimited number of 3-minute posts, so it is going to be fine. Here we'll be for a while. I would like to try to sum up – not necessarily confirm – a few of the things that have arisen in the debate. The councils referred to the rule of action and warned against the Progress Party as an economic experiment. I've heard the council say that several times. It's a rehearsed round or sentence that the Council of State has taken in the last year. Let me just say a few little things to that. We have criticised the rule of action, because the rule of action does not distinguish between investment and operations. But if the Council of State enters into the budgets promoted by the Progress Party in recent years, they are within the 4 pst path of action. Within the sum that is said to be the rule of action, i.e. the 4 pst. path, all the budgets of the Progress Party – we are talking about recent years. In addition, the party has put forward proposals to distinguish between investment and operations, because there is a difference in the way money is used. So to one more thing that I'm very happy that I signed out, and that's precisely the fact that we changed the 25 pst.-limit, if that is, for example. goes up to 40 pst. But it's not like there's just concessions you're talking about, these are acquisitions of companies. You go in and buy companies -- that's what happens here. I totally agree with the Council of State that it's amazing. The more you process, the more jobs we can get. It's very positive for Norway. But I say we also have to take over what will happen if you change the terms, or you're not able to follow the terms. Then it's about one more matter that I'm very surprised that especially SV is not part of – the environmental party SV. They do not agree to go in and take out or punish the breeders that are the cause of fish escape. It is said that responsibility should be shared by all. There is no incentive to introduce additional measures to prevent escape. There's SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5186	The role of the opposition is to criticise the position. That's the way it should be. But sometimes you get a little surprised, because I could read in the Finnmarks press – before the message came – that the Right Fisheries Commissioner, Frank Bakke-Jensen, was critical of the message, and he didn't expect anything. I almost wondered if the man had become psychic, but that is at least an example of talking down an industry and a message – before it comes. I think it is good that the same hill-Jensen is more positive in the hall, but he has had a line exchange with Irene Lange Nordahl who has been wonderful. He asked her questions as to whether the coastal fleet could get part of the delivery obligations for the trawls, and at the same time he said that the coastal fleet is so small that it can deliver to all the berths claiming universal service. This statement does say everything about the view of the Right and Hill-Jensen on the matter of universal service. Hille-Jensen – in the Right Counter-Message to the Maritime Administration – may be able to inform the Assembly of the number of berths claiming universal service obligations. It would be interesting to know. This is a serious matter for a county, and I think the statement and the question from Bakke-Jensen to Irene Lange Nordahl was very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5195	Just a few brief comments to the representative Nesvik on marine mammals: it might have been nice to have the situation of marine mammals re-examined, but after what I remember, it's about. three and a half years ago we last dealt with a marine mammal message in Stortinget, Nesvik was the case rapporteur, and I believe the comments and the setting from that time really still stand quite well. There may be different perceptions of it, but I agree that marine mammals are an essential theme for Norway. So to the discussion about delivery obligations and the seafood industry. I will not go into the delivery obligations. That's well enough expressed from this pulpit. I just want to draw attention to the fact that in the maritime food communication, it is announced that one wants to set down a public sample to review – in full range – the framework conditions of the seafood industry. I believe that in recognising the challenges facing the marine food industry, a completely necessary and proper approach by the government. Then it was okay to clarify the Right, we'll say, description of what's going to be a counter-message. Now, what we've been talking about is that there's a summary of Right's comments and suggestions in the last four years. In this way, it may be more a narrative they present, or, as we call it in the Workers' Party, an annual report, but not very exciting in terms of fisheries policy. I agree with what I said at the outset in my first post. I believe that what has been presented by the government, to which the government parties are now joining within a particular, we should say, the difficult area to balance, as the fisheries policy is, is a big message about the world's leading maritime nation with a very high level of precision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5204	The representative Alf Egil Holmelid is a keen observer, and on closer inspection it turns out that he is quite right that the Christian People's Party does not have a note where it was really supposed to be standing. That's why I have to take the floor again, at least to make sure that it comes into the Minutes. What I have to show is the sixth draft of the committee position, where I've written it into the margin, but it hasn't come along, and we have to put that on our cloak. But we support the government in its view that the influence area should be a larger area than the immediate proximity of a farm site, and we also support the principle that a fee should be charged for environmental studies. Then it should be corrected, at least in the record of today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5209	Then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5212	Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5216	A small comment to the representative Nesvik: it's not that introducing joint responsibility means that we stop sanctioning where we can prove that there's been a spill of farmed salmon. The point is, where we can identify each breeder's salmon comes from, we already have clear sanctions possibilities. What we're talking about here is where we don't have a chance to go on the individual. Then we have a joint responsibility. But that does not prevent us from punishing where we can detect where the salmon come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5221	Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5224	In the case of universal service, it is actually the case that there are quays claiming the right to allowances. If you follow the media up there, you'll see that it was last used in Kiberg that thought it would have part of a quota. To be more specific, it should have a third of what was already called Kerak's quota, which was a trawler. Kiberg is actually also in the situation that there is no way to get in with a trawler. That's a bit of the complicated picture we described when we asked for a review of the delivery obligations. Then back to the committee chairman, Aasland – about the annual report, etc. We have therefore warned that if the chairman of the Committee wishes to find out what is the right policy, he should follow the committee procedure and read the comments and the communication as they exist and as it will be adopted tonight. That's a good input for a politician. But then there's someone outside this house who would like to communicate this in a different way. To them, we're going to deliver the alternative maritime food message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5231	In order to respond to the representative Holmelid: My starting point is that the representative Holmelid and the government parties both vote against the fact that there will be a traceability system by 2015 and in addition will have a solidarity fund instead of that we will trace back and send the bill to those who are responsible for these escapes, just to have the preventive perspective. That's what the real problem is in that context. But it is unfortunately such that I have to ask for a response from the Council of State. She did not have the right to answer in the line change – I understand that, because you have 1 minute. The question relates to food-fish concessions and set-aside fish of 1 kg. There has been no clarification, as far as the undersigned has at least seen, on how to calculate this fish. Because as long as you give the concession that the set fish can go from 200 grams and up to 1 kg, the product can be used for other things than to be put into mermaids. Then my question to the Council of State is, how is this to be understood? Should that volume, the MTB that's shown by the set fish here, that's what you have, for example. on land, be part of the food fish concession, or can you use it in another way as long as you don't put it into the sea? It may be good to clarify, because if not there can also be a new and fantastic market linked to kilos of fish coming from this industry, without going beyond the food fish concession itself that you have linked to mermaids.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5238	If that's okay, I'll answer from this pulpit, then we'll save some time – it's late in the evening. As the representative asked for, unfortunately I did not have time to answer the question in the loop. I think I remember right, that we've had discussions around exactly the same topic related to another debate, but at least, what we've opened up to, is essentially a trial plan, call it, to see if it's possible to have the set fish on land, up to 1 kg. So far, subject to the fact that I don't have a complete overview, it hasn't been, to say it in popular language, a run of enquiries to establish that production. To put it that way, with my knowledge of the farming industry, I don't think this is going to be a land-based food fish production, in the sense that it won't be economically sustainable. When we gave the opportunity to have the seine fish on land longer, it was simply from the point of view and the idea that it would reduce not least the lice plague, that one could have the fish, that is, the seine fish, on land after the worst lice season is over. Logically, one would believe that at least that was possible. But then we'll see what the interest is. It is in any case to understand that there are set-aside fish on land and not food fish production we are talking about on that issue, when you are going to drive ashore.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5247	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5262	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated up to 3 minutes to each batch and up to 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply being given. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5271	Few, if any, debates create more temperature, commitment and bulky posts in fisheries circles than those that have the raw fish law as their theme. The law is referred to as the fisherman's basic law. It once gave fishermen a monopoly on catching and first-hand placing on the market of fish. In addition, there was an opening in the law to allow fishermen themselves to set the minimum price. This was intended as a safety network and to increase predictability in operation. Seafood is currently a global industry where market price transparency is quite different from 75 years ago. The possibilities of transporting raw materials also give fishermen a completely different negotiating position today. The last and most important understanding in this picture is that it's probably more what the market is willing to pay, which determines what the price down the value chain is. This understanding becomes important to work ahead of time. The new Fish Salmon Law is versatile. It entitles fishermen in law to catch and first-hand trade of fish, including the choice of selling form, and the Minimum Price Institute. However, in addition to this, it imposes a number of obligations on fishermen via its sales teams. The law obliges fishermen to acquire and avail themselves of adequate market competence. The raw fish layer manages the market competence of the fish. It obliges pricing to take account of the next stages of the value chain so that profitability can be achieved at all stages. It is therefore also the responsibility of the workers on land to have a viable framework. I'll make it short, since it's late in the evening. It is that the aim of the law goes a little parallel to the great vision: a well paying consumer who chooses Norwegian seafood products because they have the best quality, is simple to prepare and submit confidence that they are the catch of sustainable stocks. When we get there, we've come to where we want to go. On behalf of the Progress Party, I am promoting their proposals. And then I just want to add briefly that the matter is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5293	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5296	We are now dealing with a new law on the first-hand marketing of wild marine resources, the Fish Sale Act, which is to replace today's raw fish law. I think I'd like to say the raw fish law for a long time to come. The Fish Sale Act must be practised. First, I would like to take the opportunity from this chair to congratulate the Norwegian Raw Fish Team on 75 years of age. I see we have representatives from the Råfisk team up at the gallery. Yes, there are many opinions about the importance of the raw fish law and the raw fish layer for the fishing industry. But there has never been any doubt that these two together have been very important community builders along the coast in all these years. The aim of the Raw Fish Act is essentially to ensure stable and good framework conditions, and that the law provides clear and predictable conditions for all who trade fish in the first place. But the raw fish law has been, and is, under constant criticism. The working party is clear. We want the main features of the law to continue. We will continue to hold back our two most important laws in the fisheries legislation, the Fish Sales Act and the participant law – no doubt about it. Now that the government is proposing a new fishing law, it is following a thorough and comprehensive process. We see it as important that the law be harmonised with the other two central laws governing the fishing industry, namely the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act. The government's proposal is that the minimum price should be determined after negotiations between the fishermen and the industry, and that the sales laws should determine the agreed price. In the event of disagreement, the minimum price shall be provided for mediation. However, if mediation does not result, the sales laws shall set the minimum price. The new law also gives the Ministry the opportunity to impose on the fish sales laws tasks of controlling the quality of raw materials. That's good, and it's completely in line with the focus that's in the maritime food message, on quality. The working party fully supports it. As one has heard earlier today, I do not hide that I am surprised, but nevertheless satisfied that the Right is following the government in this matter. You might say that this has taken time, but it has helped us to have a revised law that should stand over time, and that the Right with the government parties will be the guarantor that the main features will be fixed. I cannot say the same about the Progress Party. During the debate that was also referred to earlier, I thought for a moment that the Progress Party had turned around. But how long was Adam in Paradise? Not for long.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5319	Fish stocks and raw fish stocks have played an important role for fishermen and for the fishing industries in this country. The first salsa, the Great Fire Company, was founded in 1927. The establishment of the salsa and subsequent legal regulation were decisive measures to create better conditions for fishermen. Actions included: The aim is to balance the relationship of power between fishermen and exporters. Salacks have also played an important role in managing our fishing resources. The system of fixing minimum prices has been a central element of the raw fish law and the work of the salads. Today's crude fishing permit dates back to 1951. Since then there have been new laws regulating the fishing industry. This applies primarily to marine resource laws and participation laws. Therefore, there is a need to update and modernise the raw fish law. But the main pull is stuck. The government is proposing a mediation mechanism for setting minimum prices, but the final word for the listing should be non-aggressive. SV supports this and believes it is important to ensure that the salsa layers get the last word. This is a system that has been important for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry and which should be passed on. It is also proposed that the salsa should have a greater role in controlling raw material quality and raw material handling. These are important measures. The maritime food message suggests that Norway will become the leading maritime nation. If we're going to achieve this goal, it's important to focus on quality in all terms. Quality focus is also important to ensure the profitability of fisheries and the fishing industry. The responsibility of the salsa when it comes to quality comes in addition to the responsibility of the Food Safety Authority for quality and food safety. It is important to identify a good division of labour and good forms of interaction between the Food Authority and the section. Proposition provides a strong quality focus. At the same time, the main features of the promise are fixed, and it includes the salsa's right to have the last word on the minimum price. SV supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5336	With some people having a bit of a hard time for it tonight, I'm just going to say the following: The Progress Party is voting for the law as it is here. The proposals that we have made have already been taken up. One of the reasons for them is, among other things, as it says in our remark: ‘These members consider that questions may also be asked in the comprehensive delegation of management and control tasks to private-owned budgets to which the law provides.’ We want a review of some of the elements of the law, but we are voting in favour of it as it stands today, so there should be no debate related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5346	For the Center Party, the cooperative tank is strong. The Raw Fish Act and the Fish Sales Act are an important part of the cooperative and Norwegian model. The centre party is therefore pleased that the new law continues the main features of the raw fish law, and we think it is positive that there is a new and modern law that is harmonised with the other two central laws regulating the fishing industry, the marine resource law and the participant law. When the Senterlot rings the principle in the Fish Sale Layer Act, which implies that it is the sales laws, i.e. the last word to be used for fixing the minimum price for fishermen is because it is a very important principle. This is an important principle that the Center Party does not want to rock. The centre lot is the guarantor of this principle. The centre party does not want to return to the time when the fishermen had to hand hold the hua and negotiate the price with the buyer. We are concerned that the primary producer, i.e. the fisherman must be secured against the industry. That is why we are pleased that we have now reached a solution that is in line with what the fishermen and the raw fish team asked for in their hearings on the matter. We want a permanent mediation arrangement in case of disagreement about the minimum price, where the sales teams have the last word. And we're going to get it into place. A short time ago, the Redfish team celebrated its 75th anniversary in Tromsø. There were several claims made. Among other things, the Øyvind Korsberg of the Progress Party claimed in the debate that the Progress Party would not change the Raw Fish Act, as I mentioned earlier this evening. It is – I repeat – with respect to notifying people and fishermen behind the light. When we see in this position that the Progress Party is proposing a revision of the system of negotiation and fixing the minimum price, it is in reality a rematch for the whole law. They should only wait until after the election. In a number of comments from the Progress Party, the lot is more concerned with complying with the conditions of the industry than they are with the fishermen. They state in their comments that they are concerned about the balance between fishermen and fish buyers’ interests and that fishermen have too much influence. They also write that they want a change to Section 12 of the Act, so that either an order of business or an arbitration title is established. There are major principles that are now at stake, and this is the true face of the Advance Party with regard to the new Fish Sale Act. This involves a rematch on the very basis on which we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Raw Fish Team: the basic law of the fishermen themselves. The policy of the Progress Party will lead us back to a time when the fishermen were standing in hand with the fish buyers. This is the policy to which they are now inviting, and that is the policy to which we from the Central Party are going to give strong warning to fishermen and the coast. The fall selection for the harvest is therefore an important option. With the Centerpartet and a red-green government, the basic law of fishermen will be firm. With a blue-blue regime, with the Advance Party at the head, there will be a fight over the entire law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5367	In the government's proposal for a new fish-sales law, several important principles are passed on under the Raw Fish Act. The most important of all is the principle that the fisherman owns the raw materials at the price has been established and that thus the fisherman’s side shall continue to have the right to set the minimum price. The Christian People's Party has long traditions to protect the interests of the primary industries. In both agriculture and fisheries, the interoperability model is very important to ensure a stable and predictable price of their products for farmers and fishermen. Cooperations have also been entrusted with other important tasks, including: ensuring equal and safe access to raw material for the food industry. It has been the Christian People's Party's policy for every year to support the cooperative model for the marketing of raw materials from agriculture and fisheries. Christian People's Party therefore supports the government's proposal regarding the pricing procedure in the new Fish Sale Act and that the right of the fish sales laws to set minimum prices is now explicitly laid down in Section 12 of the Act. A new element of the law is compulsory mediation, if the fishing side and the industry side do not reach agreement on the minimum price, but the principle that the fish sales laws are entitled to set the minimum price if the mediation does not result is maintained. We're giving our support to this new arrangement. Like the Right, however, we do not understand that the Red-Green Government has spent eight years establishing a mediation system, similar to that introduced by the Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen of the Bondevik II Government. In the Christian People's Party we also notice that the fish sales laws are being introduced to new control tasks with the new law. In addition to the tasks of controlling quotas and withdrawing catches in excess of the quota, the fish sales teams shall now monitor the quality of landings. We record that these are still unresolved questions regarding the division of tasks between the fish sales teams and the Food Authority. We therefore meet the notified review of the cooperation and sharing of responsibilities between the Food Authority, the Directorate-General for Fisheries and the Fisheries Sales Act. We also refer to the comments of the Christian People's Party then Report. Art. No. 16 for 2011–2012 was discussed on 4 June last year. We then pointed out the wide variations between the sales teams in the control work. There is a considerable variation in the use of both personnel and resources. A common practice and understanding of how this work is to be carried out are very important. We therefore believe it is important that Section 7 of the new Fish Sale Act opens up the possibility of establishing a joint body for two or more fish sales teams to carry out control tasks. It will provide a more consistent practice in control work, and we hope that the fish sales teams will take advantage of this opportunity. With these comments, the Christian People's Party joins the government's proposal for a new fishing law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5384	The government has put forward a bill on new law on the first-hand marketing of wild marine resources. The main features of the Raw Fish Act have been passed, but the proposal implies that we have a new and modern law harmonised with the other two central laws applicable to the fishing industry. The new purpose paragraph expands the purpose of the law by emphasising the involvement of the law in sustainable and socially viable management. The law has a larger dimension than just providing good and stable prices for fishermen. It shall include, inter alia: ensure a fair distribution of revenue from the market between fishermen and industry. This will ensure a stable framework for turnover, which benefits both the fishermen’s side and the industry’s and fleet’s side. In addition, the social responsibility of the sales teams is highlighted by their control of the resource outsourcing. The legislative proposal provides for the setting of minimum prices and the procedure to be followed in the event of disagreement between the parties. The sales teams have, as before, given the last word, if no agreement is reached, but only after mediation has been completed. I feel that a lot of the debate has just been about setting the minimum price. I stress that the law contains more than that. I recognise that it is important, but I do believe that the normal thing – and this has been true in most cases for many years – is that the parties have agreed to negotiations. I have to bring forward something the representative Nesvik said in an article on the matters we dealt with before this, and it was that the fish sales teams did not work optimally to get the best possible price for the best possible raw material. Then the almost question has to be whether the representative Nesvik is dissatisfied with the minimum price, because we are really talking about setting the minimum price and not what is possible to get into a market. Finally, I would like to mention that the new law allows the sales laws to impose controls on the quality of raw materials. The aim is to contribute to improving the quality of the catch delivered. In my view, the legislative proposal will provide an important update of the legislation on the first-hand placing on the market of wild marine resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5404	At the beginning of the sample work and at the hearing, some criticisms were made that the law was not fully reviewed when it was first started. The term of office was limited and was further restricted after the sample manager asked for clarification. In the opinion of the Right, it is little luck that you did not attack this case as widely as possible when you were going to have a review. A more thorough examination of the role of the market and a stronger emphasis on the principle of objectivity in the sales strike mechanism would, in the Right’s view, be desirable. It wasn't done. Of course, one can inquisitorially claim that if this is Right's view of the matter, the Minimum Price Institute falls with Right in government. No, that's actually not right. In the new Fish Sale Act, the right of the model with mediation is also possible in case of disagreement on pricing, and that fishermen get the last word after mediation. Why this contradiction? The new Fish Sale Act is versatile. It entitles fishermen in law to catch and first-hand trade of fish, including the choice of selling form, and the Minimum Price Institute. But in addition to this, it imposes a number of obligations on fishermen, via its sales teams. The law obliges fishermen to acquire and avail themselves of adequate market competence. The raw fish layer shall manage the market competence of the fish. It obliges pricing to take account of the next stages of the value chain so that profitability can be achieved at all stages. It is therefore also the responsibility of the workers on land to have a viable framework. It obliges fishermen to supply catches of such quality as to enable the industry to choose between several forms of production. It obliges fishermen in respect of resource control. Sustainability certification will be the driving force in many, many more markets in the future. If there's any doubt about whether we report the right volume in resource management, we can face greater loss of reputation and values than we like to talk about. The reputation of the seafood industry must therefore be a shared responsibility – as clearly on the boat deck as in the production hall. In short, the new law makes greater demands on fishermen to see their role in a more comprehensive picture. In the Right, we believe that the new law, with the mediation agency, will have a disciplinary effect in terms of playing against their own and other actors in the industry. This will benefit both fishermen and industry. The right-hand objective of the new Fish Sales Act and the Storing Communication on Seafood is to start on the road to profitability at all stages. We think it is possible to achieve this by giving industry a more market-oriented approach to catch, a quality thinking that goes far beyond the needs of individual joints, and a production understanding and product development that provides both more sales and better prices in the market. A well-paying consumer who chooses Norwegian seafood products because they have the best quality, because they are simple to prepare, and because they provide confidence that they are caught and sustainable stocks, is a good image we're going to have in the debate further. Finally, I would like to add that the last winter's tumults and debates around the minimum price show that the raw fish layer was the task of growing up. In the storm they stood against both their own members and the industry, and in my opinion they did a good job. So that's also a little bit of the Right rationale for being conservative and changing slowly. We believe this is a good law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5427	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 23, 24 and 25 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5467	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes each to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5476	It was not bad that we started on the case on 10 June, on the way to 11 June. In this debate, as the President informed, three issues which are quite different, but which have in common something to do with the EOS Committee. I'll take them in order. The annual report of the EOS Committee provides a good insight into the operation of the EOS Committee in 2012. The Committee is broadly satisfied with the work of the EOS Committee and underlines the crucial role played by the Committee in ensuring good democratic control of the secret services. At the same time, control activities will also help to ensure the legitimacy of the secret services. A liberal society must have functional secret services that work for the security of the state, combined with good control procedures. In 2012, the EOS Committee carried out 30 inspections, of which an unannounced check. The Committee notes that the EOS Committee has complied with the requirements of the control directive, but stresses that it must be considered as a minimum for the control activities, which means that the sample is completely free to carry out more controls. In addition, the EOS Committee itself has to assess the future use of unannounced controls. The Committee considers that it can be effective in a number of contexts. 21 complaints were dealt with in 2012, and several of these complaints are rejected because there is no basis for bringing an appeal. The Committee has pointed out in its opinion the need for a notary to be included in the appeal cases rejected. In recent years, interaction between the PST and the E service has evolved. That is good, but that cooperation can also help to create some new control challenges because the basis for the different services is different. The Committee considers that such developments may further increase the need for controls and calls on the EOS Committee to pay particular attention to the need for any changes to the rules resulting from such closer cooperation. There's been little time in this case, so I just have to skip a lot and land at the Intelligence Battalion. Following a complaint, the EOS Committee was in a state of unannounced control there, and illegal registrations and information were found about two specific journalists — the complainants. It's surprising that the Intelligence Battalion is breaking the law this way. It is very worrying if the illegal registration was due to their journalistic activity. We have, and should have, a critical press, and it is totally unacceptable that the authorities are doing illegal registration of work and personal data on journalists. The EOS Committee has also implemented a major project in which they have examined PST’s registrations of persons related to two specific Muslim environments. It's a special message from the EOS committee, and let me first say that the EOS committee concludes that the PST had reason to monitor people related to these two environments, but that the circuit had become too large. There were several registrations on persons based on their connection to the religious environment, without any additional elements underpinning the registration. It is contrary to the PST instruction, § 15. The Committee considers that it is important that the PST be closely associated with the legal frameworks laid down for the activities and the possibility of registering persons and the necessary procedures for following up registrations and deleting records for which there is no longer any basis. In the course of the work of the EOS Committee, the PST itself initiated a new review of these records, resulting in a large number of deletions from the PST register. It is necessary for the confidence of the PST to improve these procedures and to ensure that these records are within the regulatory limits. I would also like to add that it is an inherent challenge for the secret services that they, on the one hand, get criticism for not detecting or registering persons who can later be linked to acts of terrorism or preparatory actions, while on the other hand, get criticism for registering too many. It is a challenging balancing exercise that the service has to live daily. Finally, some brief – that is to say fast – words about the proposal for a representative, Document 8:130 L for 2012–2013, where all parties – and it is very pleasing – agree that the right of access of the EOS Committee to telecommunications companies providing services for the secret services should apply universally. Today, access to the control of the EOS Committee is limited to the companies owned by the country itself. In practice, there has been Telenor, while they have not had the ability to control the other telecommunications companies. With this amendment, the right of access to the EOS Committee is made universal, regardless of who owns the telecommunications provider. It's important, and that's good. With that, the rapporteur-general’s job has been completed, albeit with too short speaking time – and time has passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5506	We're very clear when we're dealing with the EOS Committee setting, that the selection has more tasks, but I think it's important, even though it's now a long night and we're starting to wear out all of us, to keep a strong focus on the fact that this selection's special task is to make sure that the secret services do not expose individuals and citizens of Norway to abuse. That's all that matters. I am very pleased that there is no debate whatsoever, nor in the services, about these services being under democratic control. It is crucial for the legitimacy of these services, and not only the EOS Committee is visiting these services. We do, too, and we hear very clearly that they join such an understanding. I think the Storting should be happy about that in every context. So I would say that as we read the EOS Committee's setting, we see very clearly that the secret services in all, mainly do a very good job. It's important to be told, so that we don't get past it. At the same time, I would like to express the same concerns as the rapporteur, the representative, Mr Anundsen, also expressed from his position, namely the two significant comments made by the EOS Committee in this debate. One of these concerns the management of the PST, where 120 people were required to be removed. That's too much. It is absolutely necessary that the PST take the necessary reviews of its own culture and of its administrative procedures in order to remove that kind of practice. There's been a lot of attention around the E battalion, as it's called. What is the big concern about what happened there, the illegal registration of Norwegian journalists, is asking the crucial question from us in this Chamber: why in the world are they doing it, when they obviously know it's illegal? That question has not been answered properly. They said it shouldn't repeat itself, so you've gone through all the routines, but we haven't got an answer to that particular question. It is necessary to highlight in this discussion. I'm not going to stress it any more, as it's called, but I would like to say that that question actually hangs still a little bit in the air. I would say that it is very necessary for those who listen to this, and who read the minutes from these discussions with seriousness, that they notice that the Storting is aware that that question has not been answered. I expect the EOS Committee as such to follow this up. So, as the representative Anundsen said, this is about controlling some of the core activities of democracy, namely the right of journalists to protect their sources, to carry out their missions. It says the Stortinget and the Norwegian press in the same school, to put it this way – on both sides, but in the same school – and it is very necessary to stress from this speaker that this is not acceptable. I'm glad that the EOS Committee saw this, and I'm glad that the defence management and the defence minister have also so clearly distanced themselves from it. Then I just want to say that there are many elements in PST's work that you have included in the setting. I just want to join in what has been said in the setting, because it is important to be told that the PST must be proactive. It is very important that the PST be able to keep up with developments, that they are proactive, and that the political leadership of the respective departments ensure – and now I see that both Councils are present – that there is good cooperation between the E-Service and the PST. It is actually a prerequisite for the future of good services. Finally, I would like to say that the Workers' Party agrees with the remark in the vote that we are sending a letter to the Presidency, asking that the presidency go through the provisions of the rules of the EOS Committee that it is necessary to do, so that we can have a fully up-to-date law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5525	My post only applies to Inner. 376 S, in one of the three cases we're dealing with, and I have two comments. The first one is the most shocking, and that's the note about the Intelligence Battalion – the E Battalion, which it's probably called. I have to say that as a Norwegian citizen, I am disappointed and a little shocked that the defense is acting contrary to Norwegian law. In particular, there is an area that often distinguishes authoritarian regimes, namely the identification and prosecution of journalists. The job of journalists is to be critical of power, that is. political power, being critical of government and wanting to engage in gravitational journalism. It can be unpleasant, and in regimes we don't like to compare with, the military methods are used to bring this to life. This reminds me of something of the same thing, and I don't like it. I choose to believe that the defence is familiar with Norwegian law, but nevertheless traded in violation of it. I agree with Mr Kolberg that the answer to this matter is still hanging in the air. It doesn't benefit forever to point out that the case is under investigation, and that results will come out of it. But I just want to recommend to the EOS committee to pursue this matter further, or have it under surveillance. Although the Storting is now politically taking some kind of vacation for a few months, I think the Minister of Defense must also expect to be asked what the outcome of the case was, in addition to the letter sent to the committee, where it refers to the investigation. My second comment relates to what the Committee actually asks the Presidentship of the Storting to look at. This applies to a number of relationships that I am uncertain about working well enough. This is not where we go to the Council of States, because the EOS Committee is, of course, the Supervisory Board of the Stortinge, and therefore the Stortinge must clarify this. That is why the address is addressed to the presidency. I pay particular attention to the first two issues to be asked for in the letter, which is referred to in the setting on page 4, namely, if not the selection today actually ‘should have unlimited access to require transparency in all documents the sample may consider relevant’. It will be requested that the ‘principle that the agencies themselves can decide against the sample whether documents can be downgraded or downgraded may entail a potential restriction on the reporting possibilities of the EOS Committee’. I expect that the new presidency will take this up in a dialogue with the sample to see if these are real problems, and make sure that any legislation is changed if necessary. It is not, in fact, an overall committee that is asking for this. For once I have to say that I do not understand what the Progress Party means, because they write in the setting: ‘These members consider such an enquiry to be a matter for the parties involved.’ Yes, and I represent the Right. That's why I join that enquiry, and the natural way to do it is actually through the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5545	Let me also start with the E battalion and wonder a little bit that it is possible that the defense actually violates Norwegian law in this way – and probably knows that they do. Then you have to ask yourself, is there a culture in any environment in Norway that makes it possible to continue like this? For SV's part, we know through history that this has happened before. But that it is now continuing in 2010, 2011, 2012 – that such things are still going on, not least against journalists – I think I am very serious, and I expect very strongly that it will be followed up in a thorough and proper way. We must end it, it must be history that public servants break Norwegian law. As others have been in the past, we have, among other things, At the initiative of SV and the red-green ones, a letter sent to the presidency that we want to give the EOS selection even better working conditions than we think they have today, so that they can demand transparency of what they think is useful for their work, whatever the various departments may think. So it's one of the elements that's being captured. There are also many more elements that we would like the presidency to assess, for example. with regard to the use of external, former assistance personnel — or those with our EOS service staff, who can be used as assistance staff — or the relationship of secret services with civil informants, and the manner in which this should be done. We will certainly come back to a matter that concerns this, but we want to get a case from the presidency that goes through several elements related to the work of the EOS Committee, so that they get better working conditions and better transparency than they have today. It may seem as if it is absolutely necessary, when we get things like the E battalion and monitoring, that the PST had of 120 people in some religious environment. There is no doubt that the Traavik report and the Gjørv report raise serious questions about how, for example: PST is working. Now that we've got a new lead in the PST, I hope that we'll get caught up in the issues that include: Traavik and Gjørv are recording. Not least, the Görv report made it very clear that with a different focus, maybe July 22 could have been prevented. It's a very big question, which says that you have to set up the services after the groups and the people who might want to attack Norway with terrorist acts, as happened on July 22nd. Here I hope that the PST's new lead gripped the criticism that is coming, and made sure to clean up this. Let me end by wondering a little bit about something that is not in the configuration, but that the red-green ones have discussed so far, starting with SV: Is it the presidency that's going to be in contact with the EOS selection, or is it the control committee that's going to be in contact with the EOS selection? Not all parties are represented in the presidency. All lots are represented in the control committee. It may be natural then to report directly to the control committee, or – if there were problems with transparency or difficulties at any point – to consult the control committee and not the presidency. There is a debate that can come back to when one receives an answer from the presidency, but there is a problem that has not arisen when it relates to the letter sent by the signatories on behalf of all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party. Like the representative Foss, I am also wondering that one does not have the procedure that this letter states, namely that we send a letter and get a case back to Stortinget that the groups can discuss. Then it seems strange that one says the opposite: that one should have the groups first – instead of doing what is normal. I don't know if there's any other motive behind not joining this letter. At the end of the day, it's interesting to see if we can get into the EOS Committee's next report. It seems there are very serious things that have happened in the alert case in the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5566	I would also like to add some comments to the Annual Report from the Swedish Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Control Committee. Intelligence is a necessary part of the national State’s efforts to ensure people’s safety. But intelligence is also like an onion. There is a shell on the shell, and new ones will be created from within at all times. So it's more than demanding to have democratic control over an organization that has, and must have, such growth. Ensuring trust through democratic control and democratic governance in such a way that the intelligence, surveillance and security services do not address actions related to general personal circumstances or strong political opinions in a democratic change of words is very demanding. What has emerged from the unannounced visit of the EOS Committee to the Intelligence Battalion is that information on some journalists has been stored. It's published news articles, it's open information. It's not of the strongest negligence or the most serious crime you can do, but according to today's law, it's against the Data Protection Act and the norm we've set for what's going to happen. I have wondered why the intelligence battalions – different intelligence battalions in the Defense – are not subject to the Intelligence Act. I might have wanted to hear the Council of State's explanation as to why it's not like that, and whether she shouldn't discuss it, so that you have a clearer legal basis. I would also like to stress, as many have been involved, what is in the vote, and which has been sent in a letter to the Presidentship of the Stortinge, that one should look at whether the EOS Committee should have unlimited access to all documents, which will help to ensure the trust that is absolutely necessary to ensure that everything is done as it should – and similarly that one should also look at the use of persons who have previously served in the EOS service as assistants. Finally, I would like to say that these are issues of democratic trust in an enterprise that I would characterise as a necessary evil, but which is absolutely necessary in any state of law, in any nation state. But then we have to make sure that this onion has control over it, so that it does not evolve with uncultures, contrary to what is democratic will.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5583	It is of great importance that citizens have confidence in the secret services and that they do not go beyond the laws and instructions that apply. The EOS Committee, through its work and controls, contributes to the creation of trust, and the sample provides the Storting with useful information on the work of the secret services. The selection carries out the most pre-announced inspections. We see that this can be useful to get the best possible information as soon as possible. At the same time, in some cases unannounced inspections may be necessary. The manner in which inspections are to be carried out must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Only one of the checks of the sample has been carried out as an unannounced check. As many have said, it was addressed to the intelligence battalion at Setermoen during a complaint procedure – a complaint from two journalists. Here, as I said, it was discovered that the Intelligence Battalion had stored information about journalists — name, image, education and work history from published news articles — which the selection concluded that the Intelligence Battalion had no legal basis for. This shows the significance of the sample studies, and an overall committee takes the view that the EOS Committee regularly checks the relevant units of the defence, in the same line and with the same rights and powers as they have vis-à-vis the other E-service. So a few words about the EOS Committee's special message to the Storting regarding PST's registration of persons associated with two Muslim environments. It is important to clarify that the PST has as one of its most important tasks the prevention of events that could undermine national security and damage vital social interests. In this context, the PST has the power to monitor persons where the service finds grounds to investigate whether someone is preparing for a criminal offence, a criminal offence, which the PST has the task of preventing. But there are also clear limitations here. The PST instruction § 15 does not provide for the opening of the registration of persons only on the basis of their political or religious convictions. This provision limits the persons to whom the service has legal basis for monitoring in the light of prevention. Thus, the EOS Committee's studies concern the monitoring of two Muslim environments by PST, and the purpose was to see whether this could be problematic in relation to the PST instruction § 15. Now it is said that the EOS Committee determines that the PST initially had a basis for monitoring central people related to this environment. The challenge in this case is that in addition, the PST has processed data on a dozen persons where the relationship to these environments has been remote and peripheral, at least so remote and peripheral that the requirements for registration do not appear to have been met. In this way, the service may have recorded information about these which has not been necessary for the service to follow. We are talking here about a number of people who are registered only on the basis of what is known about their religious beliefs, and where the registration violates the aforementioned section 15. The PST has been in touch with this and has put in place several measures to clean up registration practices, and that is good. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the secret services are under democratic control and democratic control, and with which I started: the EOS Committee contributes through its work and investigations to creating trust, while the Stortinge gets useful information about the work of the secret services. In order to further improve the work and control function of the EOS Committee, the Christian People's Party is also involved in promoting a legislative amendment and clarification of Section 4 of the EOS Act so that the sample is also allowed to inspect private companies assisting the PST in its task execution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5602	I have no ambition to expand my list of speakers with my post. I want to address two aspects of the annual report and the special reports that we have. The first is that we are about to adopt new terrorist laws in the Storting, which will, of course, increase the possibility of using rather in-depth monitoring methods, simply. This will be incorporated into the range of things that have happened in recent years, which actually indicate that the EOS Committee is getting a bigger and bigger job to do, both in terms of the skills they need, and in terms of the extent to which they have to be able to deal with. I think it is time for the Storting to have a proper debate on whether we have the right resources in place with regard to the challenges ahead of us in terms of monitoring, at least if it turns out that the terrorist laws to which the Justice Committee has unanimously agreed are actually being adopted. There will then be very large demands for an EOS selection, and more resources will have to be followed up in order to be able to do it properly. The second item is a special comment that the Left item has in its configuration. The EOS Committee has done just as they have been informed and as mandated in the alert structure. We find it strange, however, that you have to complain to be informed that you have been illegally monitored. I understand that it is not possible to alert everyone, both because the severity is different, and because by noticing that someone has been monitored incorrectly, someone who has been monitored correctly may reveal something. There's a balance in this, but I think there's a lot of good points in the letter from the Norwegian Editorial Association and others in the media world, where they say they think it's strange that the journalists who ask get answers, while those who don't get it, don't get notified. I think it can lead to a lot of negative, because the EOS committee gets a lot of questions that they might not have had to spend resources on, because people are asking for security. I think we have to have better routines for this, and people have to feel that there's a connection between being exposed illegally and the follow-up you get later. This is a job that the presidency has now got, but we believe that here we need a proper review of the whole code, because this is not related to people's perception of justice and their perception of how the system should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5611	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 23, 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5625	This is a half-yearly exercise by Stortinget – an important and laborious exercise – but which fortunately does not contribute to the major debates in the Chamber, because the review of the State Council Protocols usually results in the majority of things looking right. However, I would like to review the minutes of the Council of State for the period from 1 July to 31. ==References== It's getting really good, but unlike what one might have got the impression in the media, there hasn't been any dissidents in the government in this period, so this time the government has been quite united. There is one aspect which the Committee has taken particular note of. It is that the Departments' refusal of access requests may be charged to the King of the Council of State under Section 2 of the Public Service Act. During this inspection period, 10 such complaints are made to the King of the Council of States. Of course, in order for the King of the Council of State to be able to deal with these complaints, it is imperative that the King of the Council of State understands what the complaints are about. In one of these cases, the Royal Resolution is in such a way that it is completely impossible to understand what the complaint is really about, or what the matter is really about. It is therefore not possible to enable the Council of State to assess the substance of the complaint. The Committee notes that it is important that the Ministries ensure that the Royal Resolution takes such a form that it is possible for the Council of State to actually assess the complaint. It's really saying itself. I have to say I am somewhat surprised that we have found this case, because I do not understand how the government has actually been able to decide on this matter without knowing anything more than what you knew. So this time, too, the Committee, using the Storting investigation section, has been subject to two regulations to check that they are in line with the assumptions and bases of the Storting. One is the Code on International Cooperation in Criminal Matters, Regulation 2012–12-14-1227. The investigation section concludes that the regulation does not conflict with any leadership or premise given by the Storting, which the Committee agrees with and of course is satisfied with. In addition, the Investigation Section has reviewed the Regulation on patients’ and users’ rights in the fixed medical scheme, Regulation 2012–08-29-843. There the investigation department has made a statement that I allow myself to quote a little from: «In the opinion of the Investigation Section, in order to avoid any doubt as to the scope of the home, the regulation on patient and user rights in the fixed medical system should have been provided for in the third paragraph of Section 3-2 of the Health and Care Services Act in addition to the fourth paragraph of Section 2-1c of the Passbrul.» The Committee has listened to the Investigation Section and asked the Ministry to consider how this could be followed up. There is therefore no stronger request on the part of the Committee than that. With that, this unanimous and thoroughly elaborated position has been put forward for a kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5643	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5657	I present a unanimous opinion from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The National Audit Office’s Annual Report sets out the Riksaudition’s framework conditions, management system and achievement target for 2012. The Committee has noted and supported the fact that the Riksrevision vision is to contribute effectively to the control of the Storting and to promote good governance. It is in line with what I see as the role of the National Audit Office in Norwegian policy and in Norwegian administration. In a democratic society, control of administration is absolutely necessary. The National Audit Office is the largest external control body in the United Kingdom, and it is important for the Storting that there is a continuous review of the management's ability and willingness to follow up the decisions of the Storting – not least because, as elected representatives, we are to uphold the rights and demands of every citizen to know whether the resources are being used effectively and in line with political decisions. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee believes that the annual report shows that the National Audit Office is working hard and focused on this ambitious objective of effective control and better management. It is worth noting that the Riksrevision in various opinion polls scores very high on both credibility, integrity, professionalism and competence. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the overall management seems to be satisfied with the work carried out by the Riksrevision. The user surveys have demonstrated that the administration has experienced a particularly good dialogue with the Riksrevision. It also shows that 82 pst. the administrative respondents experience that the Riksrevision has sufficient competence in the implementation of the tasks. However, there are – almost obviously – improvement points for the Riksrevision too. On two points, user surveys indicate that there are varying results for target achievement: good guidance and presentation of audit results. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision itself expresses its commitment to improving these two points. In 2012, the Riksrevision sent 15 management reports to Stortinget. The reports show – albeit in slightly different ways – that management should be better adapted to the objectives and requirements of the enterprise or area. It is essential that the Riksrevision should be included in the reforms, development processes and plans undertaken at all times in the Norwegian administration. The Annual Report provides us with a good overview of a broad range of activities that are important for the Storting to receive information about in order to fulfil its responsibilities as a constitutional body. The Committee believes that it is important that the Riksrevision addresses issues that go across the ministry. A cross-sectoral perspective is both sensible and necessary, not least because policy areas are interrelated and because they affect each other. The National Audit Office has listed developments in government that will be significant in the future. It concerns the sustainability of the public welfare system, the economic framework and efficient use of resources in the country, municipal service production, health and care, social security and preparedness, environmental and climate challenges – to name a few. These are areas that concern us all and have a major impact on the individual's living conditions and the possibility of life development. The Committee therefore welcomes and agrees that the Riksrevision focuses its attention on these areas in the years to come. It is important that the objectives of the Storing are achieved, and that is a prerequisite for a good society. Finally, I would like to highlight the National Audit Office's international work and activities. It is good that the National Audit Office assists in the development of national audits in order to promote better and more effective governance in developing countries. The Committee welcomes the contribution of the National Audit Office to greater transparency and better governance of the international organisations of which Norway is a member. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee notes that the international activities are in line with the Riksaudition's objective of being a leading actor in the development of public audits internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5688	I would like to join the rapporteur's description that the Riksrevision is doing a good job. The National Audit Office’s vision is to contribute effectively to the control of the Storting and to promote good governance. However, when we look at what has been presented to us, that in 2012 the Riksaudition sent 15 management audit reports to the Stortinget, and these administrative audits document weak achievement, low efficiency and/or administrative practices in the areas under investigation, there is evidence that the experience gained so far from the management audit reports has not been sufficient to bring about the necessary improvement – so to speak, if we are to be aware that the areas that have been revised here are areas that one has reason to see that there is a greater need to do something about. What I want with this post is to draw attention to how the Norwegian government is being run today, how management is being carried out. We've been involved with this in relation to emergency services, we're quite often involved with it in specialist health services, and many have opinions about it in relation to Nav. Very many people who are affected by it have an opinion about it in relation to child protection, and no later than today we received a press release on how the administration is within the Railway Agency. I believe that this topic of management has far too little focus, and that there is too little debate about the reports that the Riksrevision is doing, which leaves the impression that there are great opportunities for improvement here. There was much discussion in the Committee's position on 22 July, one in Chapter 3.8.1 of the Government Parties' comments on what is known as "mission-based management", a new decentralised management philosophy in order to ensure initiative, creativity and ownership of the tasks, sense of responsibility and thus a collective commitment, the purpose of which is that the one with the best understanding of the situation should recognize the importance of, and be trained to act maritimely, but in line with, the overall level's intention, as it was at the time. Obviously, management needs to be exercised differently whether it is administrative bodies, where rule of law values have a high priority, or in emergency agencies, but the key word is to take responsibility, to have a management that is such that a person gives responsibility, and to uncover the persons standing in the first line. I think it's important that, based on the National Audit Office's management audit reports, we get more discussion about how we exercise governance in the public sector, so that we ensure that this responsibility gets better, and thus becomes a more effective, more legal certainty and better management of what is so essential to ensure justice and security for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5703	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27. We are now dealing with cases No. a total of 28 to 45. All cases relate to the second processing of legal acts. It is a legislative act starting from No. 73 and even No Ninety-nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5891	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5897	Then it looks like we're ready to go to voting on yesterday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5907	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, 28 and 32 from Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 6 by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 7-10 and 29 from Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 11-17 by Henning Warloe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 18 by Tord Lien, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 19–23, 25–27, 30 and 31 by Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 24 from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a comprehensive strategy for the higher education and research sector of the future in Norway. The strategy must contribute to clarifying the outlook of the future education sector in Norway and contribute to a clearer focus and quality response in higher education and research in Norway.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e5946	Just for the record before we move on: if anyone looked at the big screens, they have unfortunately taken the evening, but the vote result will be visible at the representatives' seats in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–23, 25–27, 30 and 31, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asking the government to fix the 3 pst research target. of GDP until 2020.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish an extended state aid scheme to recruit internationally recognised foreign researchers to Norwegian universities, colleges and institutes. The system must be unbureaucratic and easy to use for institutions.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a stepping-up plan for the national artistic development grant programme. The plan shall aim at covering the entire range of artistic expressions and all higher education institutions offering art training.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asking for a strengthening of external sources of funding for artistic development.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked to establish its own grant scheme for innovative public acquisitions.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the co-location of the maritime educational institutions with regional educational centres linked to existing educational institutions which currently provide higher maritime professional training.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national framework plan, in the form of a regulation, for higher maritime professional training. The maritime professional training framework should be coordinated with the national engineering training framework.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the industry, is asked to draw up indicators for good maritime professional training.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider moving the engineering study up to cost category D.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the civil engineering study, by increasing capacity and improving the infrastructure of places of study.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6011	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the presentation of the State budget for 2014 to make proposals to place the three-year Bachelor’s programmes in category D of the funding system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6028	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-17, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a State scholarship scheme to allow Norwegian researchers to research and teach at excellent foreign institutions and a similar scheme to attract international leading researchers to Norway.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to strengthen the Tax Find Scheme, to increase the maximum amount of intra-corporate and external support, to remove the hourly ceiling and to extend the Tax Find Scheme to include innovation activities’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for strengthening incentives for commercialisation of research results and how the instrument can contribute to this, and to extend the gift-enhancing scheme to commercialisation activities.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to provide funds for new scholarship positions in the context of the State budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a minimum number of recruitment posts to be stepped up in the long-term research plan in line with the report ‘Questionnaire and offer of scholarship positions in Norway up to 2020’, updated with new estimates.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up its own scholarship and research programmes for young researchers under the age of 35 who pay particular attention to new and innovative ideas.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a scheme of start-up packages of 5 years for young promising researchers, which includes positions, equipment, infrastructure and operational resources following similar European schemes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6076	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–10 and 29, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a time-consuming research goal for the new long-term research plan.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2015, to submit proposals for the right to retain the nutrition Ph.D. scheme.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibilities of introducing a ‘120 % model’ in order to better facilitate the combination of family life with a research career.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to set up a scheme in which well-established research institutes can seek financial support in order to qualify for basic government funding. The aid should be of such size and duration as to allow the institution to be evaluated on an equivalent basis to institutions that already have such funding.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The government asks to put the character tree in mathematics as a requirement for admission to the engineering study.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6113	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit, by 2017, a plan for achieving the 3 pst. target for research by 2030.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6130	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, 28 and 32, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess measures for better coordination of public research policy.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to entrust the Norwegian Research Council with the task of setting up schemes to stimulate several fresh PhD candidates to leave in the years immediately after graduation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own forecast of future maritime education.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to strengthen business-oriented research by increasing the appropriations for the Research Council’s User-driven Innovation Arena and other business-oriented investments’. [[BIA]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking how the government can use its order role to promote and reward innovation and possible models and impacts of setting innovation as a public acquisition criterion.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the provision of advanced mathematics as an electoral profession in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is calling for a strategy to strengthen and boost the world’s top university environments, which includes the following actions: a more robust funding mechanism with a competitive power that stimulates increased quality, a structure for the sector that promises the leading professional environments, and new instruments that can make Norwegian research environments attractive partners in international research cooperation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6297	In the course of the debate, Mr Hofstad Helleland put forward three proposals, the proposals No. 1-3, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up proposals for amendments to the Children’s Hospital Act so that the police record also provides the employer with information on matters such as body damage and possession of narcotic drugs.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up proposals for amendments to the Kindergarten Act so that persons convicted of cases involving gross violence, trafficking in human beings or violence in close relations are excluded from work in kindergarten.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up proposals for amendments to the Children’s Homes Act in order to provide for a general possibility of reconsideration which also includes information other than that provided by the basis for issuing the original police certificate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6374	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6384	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6392	In the course of the debate, 38 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5-23, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 24-32, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 33, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 34-38, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–33 has been included in the vote, while proposals Nos. 34–38 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 34, 35 and 38, from the left. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the division of labour between the Municipal Child Welfare Service and the Children’s, Youth and Family Budget in order to transfer tasks from the Bufetat Regional Offices to the municipalities.’ [[Bufetate]] Proposal No. 35 reads: ‘The government is asking for measures to improve the quality of welfare education and training.’ Proposal No. 38 reads: ‘The government is asking for incentives for a more pay-differed system that also motivates more people with higher education, such as psychologists, lawyers, specialised educators, socionomists and child protection educators with additional training, to work in the field of child protection.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6442	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36 and 37, from the left. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a pool of skills for the first line of service of child protection from which funds can be sought for training and further training.’ Proposal No. 37 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the shift from municipal service to state level by coordinating the level of pay between state and municipal child protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6464	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider legalising the provision of centres for parents and children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6479	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24, 27, 31 and 32, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 24 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that knowledge of child protection measures is made available to everyone on an appropriate website.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government requests the statutory entitlement of the support person for parents who lose care permanently or temporarily.’ Proposal No. 31 reads: 'The government is asked to review the Law of 17 July 1992 No. 100 on child protection services and promote a comprehensive legislative proposal proposing the regional level of the Child, Youth and Family Status.’ Proposal No. 32 reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to bring down the subjects of child protection and social affairs, and to transfer the tasks of these subjects to the ordinary courts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6511	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28 and 29, from the Advance Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that youth under the protection of the child is guaranteed the right to follow-up until they are 23 years of age’. Proposal No. 29 reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider transferring the executive child protection tasks to the municipalities and to add the control, support and funding tasks to the state.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals. The voting boards showed that 20 votes were cast against and 12 votes in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.53.49]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6533	Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6545	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 23, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch an investigation into the design and implementation of an Internet-based service portal with the aim of providing an overview and a basis for comparison between the offers, in order to make it more possible to choose the best offer for individual children/individuals to be placed outside the home, to improve the quality of the overall offer and to contribute to full equal treatment between public and private actors.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up a legal security committee for the protection of children’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6567	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-11 and No(s) 13-22, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The government is asked to implement the necessary measures to strengthen the cooperation of child protection with the family protection offices.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of closer cooperation between child protection, kindergarten, school, police and labour and welfare services [[Name]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all municipalities are connected to a child-restraint guard.’ Proposal No. 8:@item: intable Text ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of information work in order to make the competence of the cultural sensitivity of child protection available to, and to be used by, all child protection services.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of approval schemes for institutions with quality criteria, as well as ensuring full transparency of the content, quality and price of the provision of child protection’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests that municipalities be given the right to choose child protection measures freely after an assessment of quality, price and what gives the best assistance to each child, irrespective of who delivers the measure.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a diversity of child protection services by ensuring stable and good framework conditions for private services as well as strengthening quality control at all child protection institutions.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to separate the professional directorate’s duties in the state child protection work from the state’s responsibilities for the protection of the children of institutions.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to pay more attention to children and the needs of young people for stable care professionals in the preparation of rotational schemes for public child protection workers.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a better and more committed cooperation between the protection of children and the psychiatry of children and young people.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan to ensure that all children under the care of the child protection receive the right to individual training.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish an independent low-threshold complaint mechanism for children and relatives in order to ensure their legal certainty.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the coordination and follow-up of the post-war protection of young people in the field of child protection.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all child protection services are properly manned.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider establishing equal rules for the compensation of foster parents in all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to allocate funds to research that develops knowledge aimed at preventing and detecting abuses and care failures in public care.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the municipalities which have the necessary competence be given a full professional and financial responsibility for the protection of children’. The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6669	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads: ‘The government is asking for the possibility for several child protection actors to recruit foster parents and for the support device around foster families to be strengthened’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e6684	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, 3 and 4, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that close relatives are always considered as a foster family before children are placed with strangers.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider launching a public investigation into foster home care.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to re-evaluate the balance between the institutional and foster home offerings.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e7157	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to the second paragraph of Section 5-7 and proposal No. 26 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 100 on child protection services are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e7186	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on Sections 2 to 2, 4 to 16, 5 to 8, first paragraphs, 8 to 2 and 9 to 6 and proposals No. 25 and 30 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 100 on child protection services are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e7244	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on other paragraphs of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e7254	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e7264	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e7272	During the debate, Mr Horne presented three proposals, the proposals No. 1-3, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan for full foster home coverage by 2015.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a stability reform in the protection of children’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop precise registration and full overview of the extent of movements of children under the care of child protection.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals. Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e7314	During the debate, Mr Horne presented eight proposals, the proposals No. 1-8, on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to review existing equality and discrimination laws with a view to promoting proposals for a general and general universal equality law and against discrimination irrespective of the basis, and to return to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Act prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 5 is replaced by the following: Discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression is prohibited. [[Discrimination Act on sexual orientation]] The same applies to discrimination on the basis of other similar material circumstances of a person. The prohibition applies to discrimination on grounds of actual, presumed, past or future sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. The prohibition also applies to discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression of a person to whom discrimination relates.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The law on gender equality is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 5 is replaced by the following: Discrimination on grounds of sex is prohibited. [[Equal opportunities law]] The same applies to discrimination on the basis of other similar material circumstances of a person. Discrimination on grounds of pregnancy and maternity or adoption leave is regarded as discrimination on grounds of sex. The prohibition applies to discrimination based on the actual, suspected, past or future pregnancy or leave of a person. The prohibition also applies to discrimination on grounds of sex of a person to whom discrimination relates.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Act prohibiting discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion and outlook on life is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: Discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion or outlook on life is prohibited. [[University Discrimination Act]] The same applies to discrimination on the basis of other similar material circumstances of a person. Discrimination on grounds of national origin, pedigree, skin colour and language are also regarded as discrimination on grounds of ethnicity. The prohibition applies to discrimination on the grounds of actual, presumed, past or future ethnicity, religion or outlook on life. The prohibition shall also apply to discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion or outlook on life of a person to whom discrimination relates.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Act prohibiting discrimination on grounds of disability is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 5 is replaced by the following: Discrimination on grounds of disability is prohibited. [[Discrimination and Accessibility Act]] The same applies to discrimination on the basis of other similar material circumstances of a person. The prohibition applies to discrimination on grounds of actual, presumed, past or future disability. The prohibition also applies to discrimination on grounds of disability of a person to whom discrimination relates.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Grand Duchy with an evaluation of the effects of the amendment and its consequences on the protection of the discrimination of pregnant women and parents taking out parental leave within two years of the entry into force of the Act.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The law on gender equality is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: Discrimination in religious societies due to gender necessary for an objective to be achieved and which is not disproportionate to the person or persons discriminated against is permitted. [[Equal opportunities law]] In addition, in the case of employment in religious communities, the requirement of a particular sex must be of crucial importance for the performance of a job or profession.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Act prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression shall be amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 6 shall be replaced by the following: discrimination in religious societies on the basis of the form of life necessary to achieve an objective which is not disproportionate to the person or persons discriminated against is permitted. [[Discrimination Act on sexual orientation]] In addition, in the case of employment in religious communities, the requirement of a form of life must have a crucial role to play in the pursuit of a job or profession.» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e9195	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e9205	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e9213	During the debate Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11757	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11767	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11775	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 4-8, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up and propose a plan to reduce prison cows and to expand much more closed areas within existing walls. It is assumed that there is no form of criminal discount for the purpose of reducing the cows or for convicted zones with electronic control where this is otherwise not normal.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all financial payments to foreign prisoners are stopped with immediate effect.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish its own custody prisons for non-residents with reduced standards and in relation to border crossings.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds ‘The government is asking the Government to draw up and propose a plan to transfer all foreign criminals to its own prisons according to the model of the project in Kongswinger. As the re-socialisation argument is not valid and the prevention argument becomes more relevant to criminal foreigners, it is assumed that these prisons will be given a reduced standard.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to see all proposals in connection with the objective of protecting criminals in their own country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11822	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the economic and social benefits of non-residents in Norwegian prisons and an assessment of the intersections of earnings that should be taken into account.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11841	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a criminal care capacity plan, emphasising in particular the reduction of pay queues, the increase in custody positions and own prisons/departments of foreign nationals with expulsion orders.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to immediately start work on intensifying the number of settlement transfers and, in some cases, to open up the possibility of buying settlements for foreign offenders in their country of origin.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11856	And Christian People's Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11861	The Christian People's Party also supports the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11878	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Anders B. Werp on behalf of the Advance Party and Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals for legislation that criminalises begging in public places.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for an action plan against beggar-related crime. Such a plan should include, inter alia, increased attention to, and penalties for, trafficking in human beings, increased border control, and proposals for municipal measures to combat begging.’ Alternatively, between the proposals No. 1 and 2 by the Party of Progress and the Right and the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11898	The Christian People's Party and the Left have notified that they support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11915	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Anders B. Werp on behalf of the Progress Party and Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 22 May 1902 No. Paragraph 350(a) shall be replaced by the following: Up to two months' fine shall be imposed on the person who asks random persons for money in a public place or for the same purpose seeks them in their home. [[punishment law]] The prohibition does not apply to organised collection for charitable or non-profit purposes when the collection is registered in the Collection Register and the money collector documents the connection to the collection. Nor does the prohibition apply to activities specifically permitted by or under other legislation. Participation is punished in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11970	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11983	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e11997	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12033	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12043	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12067	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 4–6, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks it to consider paying the claimed compensation as a lump sum to facilitate the rehabilitation of victims of violence.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government immediately requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to amend the Act on the Compensation of Victims. The amendment should provide for all victims of violence up to 60 G in compensation, irrespective of when the crime occurred. The substantive legal requirements for compensation, including the requirement to notify without undue delay, are adapted to the current rules.» The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12100	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the State to promote compensation for all victims of violence, including those not awarded compensation by the Office for the Compensation of Victims of Violence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12117	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4 and 5, from the right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility that today’s system in which victims are entitled to compensation of up to 60 G may be retroactively applied.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine whether a date should be set back in time for the correction of claims up to 60 G in respect of claims.’; The Progress Party has announced that it supports the proposals in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12141	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine whether the State should forge compensation for all victims of violence, including those not awarded compensation by the Office for Victim Compensation.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12164	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12181	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to prohibit the use of eloquent clothing in public places.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that identity cards which do not comply with the requirements of the passport regulation are considered invalid.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to promote the necessary legislative proposals providing for an appropriate criminal response, such as fines, to the use of thick clothing in public places, unless the clothing is used in accordance with health, environmental and safety rules. [[HMS]] Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12206	The Christian People's Party and the Left have notified that they support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12223	During the debate, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose that the remuneration and remuneration of directors of limited liability companies be determined by a binding shareholder vote in the general meeting of the companies.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that pension funds, in shareholder voting on remuneration, be required to vote in the interests of members and to publish their voting rights.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12243	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12260	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left The proposals from the Left are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12272	I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists support the proposals from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12277	First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for expert models to ensure that a nationwide ground network number 2 is realised as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to increase the capacity of the telecommunications network abroad, including its own Norwegian Transatlantic link.’ The Progress Party has announced that they wish to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12301	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan as soon as possible for when and how map data and property information data can be made available as raw data for all.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12335	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 6, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose a scheme whereby municipalities that have used the land for aquaculture receive compensation from farmers for this. Such a scheme is assumed not to result in an increase in the cost of rearing.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12370	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a structural scheme for the smaller part of the fishing fleet as well.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12385	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the State budget for 2014 to make proposals to increase the special tax deduction for fishermen and fishermen.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12400	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a principle of freedom of choice for owners of vessels in relation to the allocation of allowances so as to allow vessels in the coastal fleet above 11 metres to choose between structural model 3+3 or 4+2. The size asks the government to set the abbreviation to 20 pst. for structuring beyond 3 times the base quota.’;» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12417	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a principle of freedom of choice for owners of vessels with regard to the allocation of quotas for the cod sector and pelagic sector for each vessel between 11 and 15 metres in the coastal fleet respectively.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a principle of freedom of choice for owners of vessels with regard to the allocation of quotas for the cod sector and pelagic sector respectively for each vessel over 15 metres in the coastal fleet.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12457	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party, 5 and 6, by Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 7, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to regulate, as appropriate, the responsibility for the cleaning up of runaway farmed fish, so that economic operators with a lower risk of escape also bear less responsibility for the cleaning up of unidentified escaped farmed fish.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12487	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the right. Proposal No. 5 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12517	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the closure of the work to put in place a traceability system to track back salmon to which it has escaped, and for the implementation of this system as of 1 January 2015. The case shall be brought before the Grand Duchy before its final entry into force.» Proposal No. 4 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12542	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to open the rolling average MTB for the farming industry.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12888	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee under the second paragraph of Section 10. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12903	The Committee shall be called upon to vote on the appointment of the Committee to the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 11. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12917	The Committee shall be called upon to vote on the appointment of the Committee to the last sentence of the first and second paragraphs of Section 11 and the third paragraph. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12931	The Committee's recommendation to Section 30 is addressed to voting. Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘§ 30 Infringement fee shall be replaced by the following: An undertaking may be liable for an infringement fee if the undertaking or any person acting on its behalf infringes the provisions of or comply with the law. This applies even if the liability for the infringement cannot be directed to any individual. In determining whether the undertaking is liable to be charged an infringement fee and in measuring the fee, particular attention may be paid to: (a) the preventive effect of the infringement fee; (b) the gravity of the infringement; (c) whether the undertaking could have prevented the infringement by internal control, guidelines, instructions, training or other measures; (d) whether the infringement has been committed in order to promote the interests of the undertaking; (e) whether the undertaking has had or could have benefited from the infringement; (f) the financial capacity of the undertaking; (g) whether there is repetition; (h) the measures taken to prevent or remedy the effects of the infringement; and (i) whether the infringement is a risk of, or has led to serious or irreparable environmental damage. The amount of the infringement fee may not exceed 15 times the basic amount of the public interest [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12993	President! In the last two votes, errors were recorded. I voted in favour, but it was registered against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e12999	Is the representative Lars Peder Breck registered with a vote against?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13002	At least it was registered so that it was the opposite of what I voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13007	The President must say two things to the representative Lars Peder Breck. One is that we correct it afterwards. The other thing is that he has to follow along, because it has happened before it has been wrong here. It's fine if you follow through on this. It is noted that in the last two votes the representative is registered with the wrong vote, and it will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13010	It shall then be counted against the other paragraphs under I and above II.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13021	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13031	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13039	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No I, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an overall review of the first-hand placing on the market of fish and crustaceans.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise the system of negotiated and fixed minimum prices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13455	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13465	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13540	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13550	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13628	With regard to the matters that now follow, as from case No. 28 even case No. 45, they're all second time dealing with the law. Since there are no comments on any of the legislative acts, the President suggests that we treat them together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comments on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-10.ana.ud446e13731	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
