ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e31	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e149	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Robert Eriksson and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Dag Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e156	Since the government change, via the government platform and the additional proposal submitted to the government budget, we have seen that this government's first weeks are mainly marked by a breach of promises. Never has so many promises been left so quickly. Despite more money in the state budget, there are some departments that are losing anyway, and one of the budget's clear losers is the Minister of Labour, who is also responsible for those who depend on the social services in Norway. Despite the fact that the government is spending more money on the state budget, and despite the government's warning of increasing unemployment, we see that measures for the unemployed are being cut. We see that the rules of leave are being weakened at a time when companies have challenges to keep people in work, and we see that the guarantee for those who lose their jobs after bankruptcy is being weakened. So someone has to pay for the tax relief. Lonely caregivers must. Those who may have the most reason to be disappointed in the state budget are the country's pensioners. State Council Eriksson has characterised the pension reform as the greatest welfare trajectory of all time. He has characterized the abbreviation as greedy. He has strongly criticised the regulation of pensions, and he has strongly criticized the fact that pensioners pay too high a social security charge. In the year's budget, social security contributions are increased. Will the Council of State Eriksson complain to the country's pensioners that all the promises he has made will not be kept?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e165	Let me first say that the Progress Party would wish for more impact on pension policy, but at the same time I am very pleased with the policy of the government. We make sure that the minimum deduction for pensioners increases. We give a tax relief to pensioners – overall – that will provide better purchasing power. In addition, the government platform, on which Andersen's representative is concerned, also states that we should reduce the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners. I expect you to understand that you did not get it on an adjusted budget after three weeks, but these are things you have to do in the current growing period, which means a purchasing power improvement for married and cohabiting pensioners of around NOK 8 000. It's a significant rise. In addition, this government contributes to a policy that leads to an increase in value creation. This means that you can expect more employment. Further to next year, increased employment is expected to increase by 30000 more in the labour market. With 30 000 more people in the labour market, we are creating policies that ensure high employment and maintain low unemployment. It must be the support of the social structure. That must be good economic policy. It is sound economic policy, and it is good, both for enterprises and not least for employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e174	So the government is warning in the supplementary proposal that unemployment will increase, despite what Eriksson is now saying. But let me be quite specific about the question that I did not get an answer to. Is it true, despite Eriksson saying that he will remove the current age pension regulation system, that it will continue? Is it true that there will still be curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners? Is it true that pensioners' social security contributions are increasing in the year's budget? Is that right, or is it wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e181	It is true that the social security charge is increasing, but it is also true that the overall tax burden on pensioners is falling. The surrender of the party's policy is correct, as it has been and is in our party program, but it's also true what the government platform says, that we are now going to reduce the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners from 15 pst. to 10 pst. during the current ageing period. It means a significant rise for married and cohabiting pensioners, but it also means that there's still a 10 pst curtailment. remaining. If the voters want to do something about it, yes, the simple way to do it is to make sure that the Advance Party gets bigger at the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e186	Follow-up questions are given – first Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e189	As you can see from the main question, it's obvious that the people who care about the government's budget are the ones who have the most of them. The Council of State took the last week offensively into the media and wanted young people to get up in the morning. I followed the Council and got up early on Friday 8 November to read through what the government wants in labour market policy. There were no uplifting Lights. The government is weakening the law on permitting, which will particularly affect young people. It's a draw. It's a draw. St. 46 for 2012–2013, More at work, and cutting out job vacancies for the unemployed, which in itself is a paradox, as the State Council of the media says that the downside message was pulled because it was not too ambitious. My question to the Council of State is: how can it be defended to cut out action places for a year when an expected increase in unemployment? What has the Council of State planned for young people to stand up until the morning?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e200	Thank you for the question. I'm glad to get it, because, point one: there's still a low level of unemployment on the ground, it shows numbers both from Nav and from the Central Statistical Office. Secondly, this government is giving very high priority to those who are outside the labour market, those with reduced working capacity. This is why we have chosen to give priority to strengthening the number of job-impaired areas of action by 3000. The situation in the labour market is, in fact, at the same level as before the financial crisis, therefore the number of ordinary action spaces is also at the level of what was before the financial crisis. We're showing a change of pace, we're offensive. We are doing so that more of the young people who are now far from the labour market are given the opportunity to stand up to, gain qualification and be clarified to move on to work. So I'm very pleased that we've got such an offensive policy and are strengthening the number of action areas for people with disabilities by 3,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e209	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e212	Since we are at the beginning of the government's work, it is important to develop the positions, the course and the priority that apply after one has entered the government. The Progress Party has previously said that one is for, and works for, most people – that is something that has now come under discussion, and that is why it is important to clarify it. Norway has a high cost level, and we have many minimum pensioners. Would it be natural, with the new government and the new Council of State, that we will in the future receive a higher percentage increase in pensions for those who have the minimum pension, compared to those who have the supplementary pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e220	Now I don't know the detailed figures for how growth develops among the different groups of pensioners, but I'm sure that in the years to come there will be fewer and fewer minimum pensioners, given that more and more of those who are now moving into the ranks of pensioners have been involved in the working life and earned supplementary pension that makes you not within the definition of minimum pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e225	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e228	The progress party did not participate in the big pension agreement here in the hall. It is based on an important premise, an important understanding of the challenges that Norway is now facing, namely that more must be done to keep our welfare state and all the good arrangements that we have in the future. An important step towards getting people to work longer, so I have two questions for the Council of State: what will the Council of State actively do to try to get rid of the special age limits we have? And what measures does the Council of State think it is important to set in motion to ensure that people have the incentive to do extra work, that they actually get something left to contribute to the community for a few more years than they had actually planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e233	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande – it is important to make sure that we get more older people to stand longer in the workplace. It is also one of the key objectives of the agreement. It is also clear in the government platform, which we are going to implement in a good way, in the right way and in a fast way. We will ensure that we go through both the age limits of the Work Environment Act and the special age limits and follow-up of the pension reform in this area, so that we get the incentives needed to stay longer in the labour market. In addition, it is always going to pay off in the workplace with the new pension system, because you earn more pension the longer you stand. It also means that you get both pleasures and benefits from standing longer in the workplace, while at the same time having professional income longer and will have a better economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e240	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e243	It's an expression that says the sea gives and the sea takes. We who live along the coast know that nature swings. This means that in some periods there are a lot of fish in the sea, and in other periods there are not so many. That's why we've also had rules for permitting the fishing industry that have worked according to nature's pattern. The government provides strong cuts in the fishing industry's permitting rules. This will have dramatic consequences for people on the coast and for a whole diet. A lot of people will lose their daily allowance. There will probably be several bankruptcies, and more will be cancelled as a result of the government's strategy. Do the councils see these major negative consequences for an entire industry and for people on the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e248	Let me first point out that the legislation on permitting has been changing as the labour market continues to develop. That's the way it has been, that's the way it is and that's the way it's going to be in the future. I recall that the last government also reduced the length of the fishing permit period from 104 weeks to 52 weeks. We have now adapted it to 26 weeks based on the labour market situation. We are also aware that it is a seasonal diet, but let me be very specific that the rule in 26 weeks still applies. Only 3 pst. of which the period of leave exceeds 26 weeks. I think it is important to have a good policy that allocates the labour force where it is needed faster and more efficiently. It is not an objective of this government that people should go as far off as possible or on leave, but it is a clear objective that people should quickly enter income-generating work and remain in income-generating work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e255	Before Stortinget moves on to the next main question, the President will remember that as far as possible, follow-up questions should be related to the main question – which, therefore, cannot be defined as the entire portfolio of a government council. Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e260	The councils are doing the right thing to stay standing, because my question is also about work. Work is about human dignity. It does something to us when we can and will work, have the opportunity to realize ourselves through work. It gives us social networks and the ability to realize ourselves, and work is the key to getting out of poverty. So it's important for the individual, but it's also important for society. The great thing for the state council is that if he succeeds in including as many people as possible into work, it also pays off financially for the state. Although Norway has a low unemployment rate, we have many people who are unemployed and who are struggling to get back to work. In 2005, it was about the same. 150 000 people who were defined as having reduced their ability to work, that they needed help from the state and Nav to get back to work. Now it's over 200,000 people. The situation for these people is that it's too long waiting before they get help. Many have to wait two or three years in line before the effort comes. There are four-sided systems for the various measures offered, and the quality of the measures varies greatly — and also geographically. Businesses are making a vigorous effort to include people who have built up skills. They themselves have requested that something be done in the field, asking for action from the state. The point is, we need a more ambitious policy for those who have fallen out of work and who need help to get back. So my question is, does the Council of State share the impatience of the Christian People's Party? And what are the ambitions of the Council of State to include more people into the labour market again?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e271	Thank you for the question. Let me first say that I share the Christian People's Party's commitment to getting more people into the world of work. One of the major challenges and tasks of the IA Agreement is intermediate objective 2, which is to a far greater extent to succeed in realizing the dream of many who have reduced their ability to work by getting them into the labour market. There is a need for a wide range of responses, including: several action places for people with disabilities. This is why this government has proposed 3,000 more sites for action. I record that the NHO management companies – representing the management companies – say they are satisfied with the pace shift of this government, just to sharpen bets, to sharpen efforts against those outside, to help more people get into the ordinary working life. We clearly share the ambition to bring more people into the labour market. It is also true what the representative Ropstad points to: Work is the very basis for both combating poverty and giving people greater freedom to realise their goals and dreams in life. Work is the key to the security that all people need. For this reason, labour policy is essential for this government — including to increase the number of people with reduced working capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e282	Thank you for your answer. I'm glad the Council of State is showing this impatience. We in the Christian People's Party are to be vigilants – and to the extent that partners – in Stortinget to get the best possible policy. But when the Council of State says this, it really surprises me that he has chosen to withdraw the big message that came to the Stortinget in August. In fact, we have long wanted this message – and the red-greens did not choose to deliver – but there were some things in the message that I think it would be important to build on. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party agreed on the direction this message showed in the previous period. The Christian People's Party wants more measures – such as flexibility and shorter waiting times, which we were in the midst of – but we agreed that the content of this message was what we were to build on. My question is, why has the Council of State withdrawn this message, so that the Storting cannot discuss it? In that case, will he give any indication that there will be a new message, so that the Storting can provide predictable guidelines to help as many people as possible return to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e292	The reason this government has drawn the message is because we have an ambitious policy in this area. It's about two things. Firstly, it is right that the representative points out: there were too few concrete, binding measures to follow up on such a communication. I want a forward-looking policy, with more concrete means of achieving the objective of getting more people into the labour market. Secondly, there will be no severance on the part of this government. We want to send a message and come back quickly to Stortinget with it. In addition, one of the major challenges is that many are waiting to move on — from one action to another. In order to avoid people being thrown between different measures — with stop and wait times and start-up times again — this government will continuously make a number of direct proposals to the Storing to ensure that the response system is simplified and improved in a much more offensive way. We don't have time to wait for a message processing – we'll get faster with this than we did.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e301	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e304	I thank the Council of State for saying that they want a forward-looking policy in this area. We have an incredible number of great reconnaissance businesses all over our country. These are companies with a high level of competence, companies that help the weakest, to help them get back to work. These enterprises need predictability both for the company and – not least – for the employees, but for the users concerned. Can the Council of State order that it is in order to commercialise this model that he has withdrawn this notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e311	I gave a thorough answer to the previous question as to why I have withdrawn the message. I would like to repeat this response to the Storting: it is simply to ensure stability, a simpler system of action and less bureaucracy in terms of measures. I already visited several rehab companies in my own home state on Monday, but also in Trondheim. All pointed out clearly that things have to be done quickly with regard to simplification of the action system. Nav points to exactly the same in order to be able to make better and more effective use of intervention agencies. This is what this government wants to facilitate, precisely to help more young people enter the labour market. That is why we are already working on simplifying all these measures – to prevent stop and wait times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e318	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e321	I think the question of the Christian People's Party travelling here today is so important that it deserves a slightly more precise answer from the Council of State. He thus gets an opportunity by that I ask the following follow-up questions: The certification companies in the NHO have requested that the message not be withdrawn. The government itself said that there will be a change of pace in this important work. The Prime Minister has said – confirmed by today at the latest – that what should characterise this government is effective. Is really the most offensive government can come up with in this field, draw a big message? Does the Council of State have a feeling of how much this will delay the necessary work on a reinforced line of work for these important groups? In concrete terms, when can we expect concrete action from the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e328	It is quite right that both the Prime Minister and the undersigned have said: this is an important area for the government. Helping more people into the labour market is important. We want implementation. That is why I also said to the representative of Ropstad: In parallel with working with a big message that needs to be concrete and precise, we put forward – in order to avoid delays, to do the most important steps, the grips that are demanded from the management companies, action actors and, not least, young people themselves, and to ensure that there is a simpler response system, fewer stop points and shorter waiting time – issues about improvements directly to the Stortinget. We're working on bringing these things forward, we're working on it. Things are coming to Stortinget in the relatively near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e335	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e338	It is nice to hear that an ambitious policy should be pursued – now it is really going to be settled. There should be more concrete instruments. Therefore, one starts by pulling what has been presented – here one has to get moving quickly. This is probably also going to cost money. It should not only be simplified, it should not only be better – one will also need some money. I want to follow up on the relationship between reinsurance companies and, if necessary, others who are going to do a job. The competence of the management companies is linked to the particularly important and particularly demanding job they have. They are developing their entire organization to cover this thoroughly. They depend on predictable framework conditions – as it is called – so that they can plan for the longer term. There's a concern among them about what's happening now. Will the government bet on these, or will one now add that this will be equal, that commercial operators will be responsible for the job that reintroduction companies are doing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e345	For this government, it is clear in the government platform that we should open up to more actors and non-profit actors. We know that the interaction between several is good, but there is a need for companies to play a central role in the implementation of this. Contingency holdings will continue to have the same predictability, the same key role. Let me give you one example of how we think of such an interaction. On Monday I was in Trondheim and visited "RBK – young at work". There is an interaction between Prima, Rosenborg Ball Club, Nav and the sponsorship companies of Rosenborg Ball Club. The fact that more people are working together here and think positively, forward-lookingly, and that the management companies are a central player, makes sure that more people get into the world of work. The XXL sports equipment chain only employs 10 persons from this project in the last year, under normal conditions. This shows that it is possible to get better results by thinking new.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e352	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e356	I registered that the Council of State Eriksson was also on tour in my home country. I share to the extent that he feels that there is something that needs to be done now, because, unfortunately, over the last eight years, a lot of young people have fallen off the systems. A little of what I expect when the Council of State withdraws that message, concerns what has been the deficiency for a long time; the interaction between the offices, between re-entry, Nav and the whole system. Then I want to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State agree that it is especially public that needs to be better, and what will he do in that case to make these systems work better, so that they actually help those users who have the need?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e363	I've been on the Storting for eight years, and I've been the Council of State for four weeks. During the eight years and four weeks, I have visited an incredible number of different relaying companies around Norway. What the feedback companies are saying to me is that, as I have repeated here several times today, we need to simplify the response system. We have too many measures – people get unemployed and wait between measures. The feedback to me is that the most important thing I as the Council of State and this government can do is simplify those measures, get fewer measures, so that we get more focus on qualification, preparation and dissemination towards the labour market. That is what I want to say, and then we politicians have to simplify that legislation and the arrangements. It will make it easier for Nav to practice it, and it will also make it easier for the management company to deliver. The end point will then be a better, less bureaucratic and simpler training round for young people, who are more likely to receive the help they need, and are more quickly qualified for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e370	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e373	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The Council of State no longer has a regional minister in its title, but continues to have responsibility for regional and regional policy. In the right-hand note during the spring of the district and regional notification, the lot wrote the following: ‘The aim is to take care of the main features of the housing pattern and to trigger the potential for value creation in all parts of the country.’ And on. ‘prioritising instruments that can contribute to strengthening the capacity for innovation and re-establishment in all parts of the country, with a focus on reaching potential entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs’. It is in stark contrast to the wording of the supplementary proposition of the State budget, which states that the government will ‘strengthen the growth force where it is’. So the main focus seems to be to boost growth where it is, and as we all know, growth is particularly high in and around the big cities. In recent years, the red-green government has been able to maintain job development and residence in the vast majority of municipalities in the country. It has succeeded in implementing active district policies and in establishing good partnerships between local authorities, regional authorities, local businesses, state innovation actors such as Innovation Norway, SIVA and research environments linked to universities and colleges. The centre party believes that the management of regional funds is the best way of actively involving regional and local authorities in the implementation of the measures. We also know that our main export and future industries, such as energy production, fisheries, tourism and mineral extraction, are typical district industries. What needs to be asked after reading the government's statement and how regional and district policy measures are being shaved in the new government's budget is: What are the government's real ambitions for regional and district policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e396	Let me first say that it is a good and important question that is raised. Let me also say that the comment from the Right in the spring that was referred to was well formulated, and it reflects the government's policy. We are concerned with both housing and growth power throughout Norway. We are committed to maintaining competitive businesses, which have weakened their competitiveness under the red-green government. We know that the companies that are exposed to competition are in particular represented in District Norway. We are committed to facilitating both road construction, research and good tax framework conditions that enable us to maintain jobs and build up under the growth power of Norway as a whole. The representative says that the red-green government has maintained the settlement in most municipalities throughout Norway. Let me then just say that it is primarily labour immigration that has led most people to maintain their residence, and that is what should be honored. So to the regional development funds. Obviously, if you measure the success of district policy based on how much money is allocated over Chapter 551, item 60, I think the red-green government will beat the sitting government. But we're concerned with results. We're listening to what business is asking for, and that's better ways. We have helped increase the appropriations for county roads in the representative's county, the South Trondelag, by 33 million. kr in addition to the county road rate compensation scheme. We focus on the tools that businesses and businesses are asking for, and this will lead to growth across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e407	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, I cannot say that I was reassured. I agree that rural policy is not just public instruments; rural development is also highly dependent on the framework conditions of our rural industries. I mentioned travel lives, because the most spectacular experiences we offer tourists coming to Norway are in the districts. I can also mention fishing, farming, mineral industry, forestry and agriculture. The appropriations for regional development and innovation through the county municipality have been reduced by about 30 pst. Further cuts have been made in Innovation Norway, to SIVA, to the tourism industry, agriculture and fisheries. Cuts are much larger — many times larger — than the increased county road allocations. How will the Council of State facilitate growth throughout the country and contribute to good conditions for the important district industries ensuring jobs and housing throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e416	I am pleased that the representative initially acknowledged that public instruments are not just important to businesses. That is precisely the point of this government: that we should facilitate entrepreneurs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for competitive business, we need both to pursue an economic policy that prevents us from pricing businesses out of our country, and to facilitate road construction, for investment in research and for private ownership. What this government is doing is both lowering the property tax and removing the inheritance tax, which strengthens private ownership. If there is something that is really important for communities around Norway, the family-run enterprises that maintain both some of the jobs and some of the growth power in the district of Norway. But it is clear that if you just measure district policy from the appropriations above Chapter 551, heading 60, yes, then this government has a different policy. We give priority to what businesses want, namely investment in the road, research and better framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e423	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e426	Market forces are strong – they are incredibly strong. It works in the Norwegian community today that, together with public organisation, we get an ever stronger two-way distribution both in the workplace and in the business world, and we also get stronger tensions between the centre and the periphery. It is in the logic of market forces that the strong become stronger, and that the weak become weaker. What is then at the heart of public policy is correcting market forces in order to achieve societal goals. The way we correct it is by far more than chapter and post, it's public organisation, taxes and charges, infrastructure and everything. My question concerns the attitudes of the new government. Does the new government want to correct market forces more strongly, so that the two-parts I referred to become less or stronger in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e433	If the representative Lundtegen with the question thought that we want even more government governance and detail management than the red-green government, the answer is no. If the question is whether this government believes that the market should be corrected, the answer is yes. Our point is that we need to build up under the growth power of business, in enterprises, to ensure that communities in Norway also have more autonomy and less state detail management. And if that's what I'm hearing, also from the Centerpart-steered municipalities, it's that you want less state-owned overtests, you want more local self-government. That's what this government will do. What I hear from Municipality-Norway and companies is that they want more investment in roads and infrastructure. You get that with this government. Only in the representative of Lundtägen's home country, Buskerud, will next year increase the appropriations for county roads by 46 million. kr. In addition, the interest-rate compensation scheme comes. So we contribute to growth, and we contribute to strengthening local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e442	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e446	We are not going to measure developments in the amount of money allocated all the time, but we are now getting strong signals that there is a real danger that many good industrial development projects in the regions and districts are either not starting up, or that many good projects for more jobs cannot continue because of the cuts we are now seeing in the regional policy instruments. So the question is, how does the Council of State assess these consequences, and does the Council of State think that there is a good development for job innovation in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e453	Let me just show you that it's still going to be 1.1 billion. kr is again distributed through the regional development funds of the counties. Then it will be up to the county councils to decide how that money is prioritised. We come from the government and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to be very clear that the money that is left, and that is most of them, must be given priority to business-oriented measures. The point is that the money that the counties have disposed of has been used for a bit of each. Much has been used for good, nutrition-oriented measures, but money has also been spent on other measures. We are now reducing this item somewhat, and we are honouring the strong desire of businesses and the counties to increase the appropriations for county roads, so that we can sew the housing and working areas together. It contributes to growth and development throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e460	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e463	From 2004 onwards, the counties were given their mandate to be regional actors, and they were to allocate resources to create regional development. This has led to the launch of multi-annual projects, which are now being asked questions with this savings. I am aware that after 2004, this has also been used as a counter-cyclical tool in periods where the labour market has needed it. And I think it's positive that we're getting improved road development. There's a greater need, and it's probably true, as the Council of State says, that the states want it. There's a lot of people now who can't be road workers. They're doing their high skills. The high-tech enterprises need risk capital. It is in the case of risk capital that not everything succeeds. That's where business can evolve, that's where we can get value creation in the districts. How will the Council of State do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e472	It's a very good thing and I also want to say the right question about venture capital for business. Although I run a department that is quite large and extensive, I am not responsible for all the instruments. Much of this is under Innovation Norway and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But we are concerned that we should have good arrangements through Innovation Norway, which contributes to risk capital for business. In addition, some of the most important risk capital is linked to private capital. That's why all the bourgeois parties, the cooperation parties, have been concerned that we should step down the wealth tax. Because it is clear that as we step down the wealth tax, it helps to increase private capital that can be invested in businesses, and similarly, when we remove the inheritance tax, it means that we strengthen private ownership. Let me then return to the regional funds. There is a lot of money left, which allows the multiannual projects to continue as well. It'll be up to the states to prioritize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e481	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e484	The Council of State was concerned with a number of things that we in the Left also agree with. Infrastructure and innovation are important for districts, and not least less bureaucracy and more local self-government, which in turn also leads to less detailed governance. It is not possible to assume that there are relatively large cuts in regional development. I wonder what will happen to the partnership that is often between companies, SIVA and municipalities, because many of these measures have a three-year cycle. Can the Council assure me that none of the projects that are in the middle of the course will be cut? Can the Council of State give such insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e491	The answer to that question is no, because I am concerned with local self-government. That's still 1.1 billion. kr left in that pot. This means that the county authorities themselves must give priority to these instruments. What we're going to be clear about is that they should be given priority to business-oriented, business-oriented, business-oriented actions. Otherwise, let me stress that I very much agree with the approach taken by the representative of Skkelstad, namely that industrial policy, innovation policy and district and regional policy are also about how we facilitate research and development. There's an offensive program for the Left. I am absolutely sure that the Right Party government and the Left will find good solutions. When we are already increasing the research and development funds in relation to the red-green government, I am sure that together with the Left we will find good solutions for Business Norway and the workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e498	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e501	I heard on the radio today early that the government was going to be characterised by executive power. If you want to be a little small, you might not need so many – and if you don't care about how they do the cuts you do, it doesn't work, especially when the effect comes in District Norway. A cut that struck down like a bomb in Hedmark was the removal of a national, modernisation project for the archives – planned for many years – that will have ring-fenced effects on at least 80 permanent jobs, and business is already planning and agreeing. This has caused great concern, and representatives from Hedmark Right ensure that the location decision is in place. Can the Minister now guarantee that the archives will be added to Tynset, and that money will come, so that the project can be started?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e508	I'd like to answer that question, even though it's pretty far away from the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e514	It's a main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e519	No, this was a follow-up question, wasn't it, President? - Yes. It is the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Culture which is the contracting department. It's true that the archive building on Tynset is under Statenbyg. When the representative, Andersen, says that this has been planned for many years, it is a little strange that no impact assessment had been carried out. The reason why this government does not grant money this year is firstly that the red-green government put so many into the budget on the way out of the government building that we had to prioritize. Secondly, in the case of the archive building on Tynset, no impact assessment has been carried out. But we're concerned that we're going to build an archive building, and we're going to come back to that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e528	So we're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e531	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. It's approaching Christmas, it's approaching December, and it's approaching the expiry of the current IA agreement. On Monday, many of the social partners strongly called for a new IA agreement to be put in place. Working with inclusive working life is important, and continuing and improving the IA agreement can be a way of strengthening it. At the same time, we have several major challenges. One of them is that many of the positive tools through the IA agreement, e.g. Nav organisation grants, only available to some enterprises and not to all enterprises. It also applies to many other good tools that should have been available to everyone, and it goes beyond small businesses that it is not. Another challenge is that we still have a significantly higher sick leave than our neighbours, and that little has happened in that way. In the summer, an evaluation from SINTEF concluded that the IA agreement has not worked properly. Can the Council of State give a'release message' about how one is working on setting up a new IA agreement? And what will one do to make sure that the agreement will work as intended this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e542	This government wants to continue the IA agreement. The IA Agreement is important to achieve the three strands: reducing sick leave, getting more people involved in the labour market – those who are currently out of work with disabilities, and, not least, making more older people longer in the labour market. If you want to succeed, you must also be willing to look at new measures, and I fully agree with the representative Rotevatn. Firstly, we are starting work on a new IA agreement this autumn, and the parties are already being called up for discussion. As our main objective, we have better actions — more targeted actions — to achieve better success within all three strands. Although it is difficult, demanding and challenging, this government wants to have clear ambitions to get better action and better results in all areas. So the sick leave has gone down by 9.5 pst. in relation to the original objective. But the original goal in 2001 was 20 p.m., so we're still a long way from it. In the case of Objective 2, we are very far away, and there we need new instruments. That's what we're going to sit down and discuss with the parties. In the case of sub-measure 3, we're still a long way away. But there has been a positive improvement in the fact that there are now several older people standing a little longer in the workplace. We're on the right track, we want to make our instruments clear, so that they get even better in that area. Then it is important for this government to ensure that we get through action, find out what it is, builds up under the actions that work, and reduces and eliminates the actions that do not work but that create increased bureaucracy and lead to that we do not achieve the results in a good way. So we're on, and we're going to get started during the fall with a new IA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e555	It is good to right that the Council of State shares much of my description of reality – that unfortunately we are still far from achieving specific targets 2 and targets 3. To get a more inclusive working life and a more flexible working life, Left also believes that one should be willing to look at something of our law. Last time we had a civil government, some sensible relaxations and liberalisations were proposed, for example. work environment law, including to include more people in our working life. At that time, very strong words were used about this, especially from parts of the trade. In the last week there has been a lot of rustling with sablars again, and there have been strong warnings about making our working life more flexible. Does the Council of State think that the previous bourgeois government has gone far too far in making working life more flexible, or does it think – as the Left – that it is necessary to have other rules for the average deduction of working time, for more temporary additions and to include more in a more flexible working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e566	Thank you for the question. At least let me first make it clear that I should not be a sensor to previous governments and distribute grades to them. But what is important is what this government should do about politics and implementation. What's on the government platform is not something we've written just to write it. That's something we've written because we're going to implement it. This government is clear and clear that we should have a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life with room for everyone. We need to provide more flexibility in working life. We want to make temporary employment easier to lower the threshold, so that more people can get into the world of work – get an arena to try on. We'll get back to that in an appropriate way in Stortinget about how we implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e571	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Pål Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e574	The left does not appear to be the government’s change in the rules of leave — and what the Council of State said now — is a correct answer to the question put by the representative Rotevatn. The fishing industry is an industry dependent on flexibility due to seasonal variations in raw material access. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, was in a previous question today on the unfortunate consequences of changes in the rules of the permit. The left fears that the change proposed will have a serious impact on the ability of the fishing industry to offer permanent jobs. This has been clearly reported by the fishing industry over the last few days, not least by the industry itself. So my question is, what will the government do to prevent changes in the rules of permitment from having a negative impact on the fishing industry in general and on the employees of this industry in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e585	Let me first underline that the law on permitting is not part of the IA agreement as such – so we are a little more precise about it. With regard to changes in the budget on permitting, I have already answered up to several times from this pulpit today. But let me repeat the answer: this government wants a growth-promoting industrial policy with a general, good framework for the entire Norwegian industry. This will also benefit the fishing industry. Then it's important to repeat again that with 26 weeks of permitting, we make sure that we can allocate the labour force. Firstly, it is adapted to the situation of the labour market — a more rapid allocation of labour from long-term leave and into the labour market. However, the key lies in the overall industrial and tax policy of this government, which is a growth-promoting tax policy – and industrial policy – which also benefits the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e594	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e598	First, I would like to endorse the recent question of follow-up, because even if the rules of leave are not part of the IA agreement, it is part of the framework conditions for working life that both sides of industry are engaged in. It affects the climate of the agreement. I can tell you that once we have had hearings in the committee, not only the fishing industry, which is hit hardest by the government shift, but also the other industry, which is weakening the rules of leave, has asked insistently that we try to stop those proposals from the government. That, I believe, contributes to better cooperation with the social partners. So to the follow-up questions of Rotevatten on the flexibility of working life. For now, the OECD has just published its report on the labour market in 2013, where they have gone through it thoroughly with temporary employment. There they emphasize that hiring people temporarily, not giving more jobs, but it gives more people who would have a permanent job, a temporary job. Will the Council of State now abandon plans to increase access to temporary employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e605	The answer is no. We want to sit down and make an embellishment to make it easier with temporary employment. I also refer to the employment message of the red-green government that shows that about 60 pst. of those who take up a temporary post, enter into a permanent post within two years. This shows that the way we have done it in Norway is good in getting more people into the labour market. Why not then look at the possibility of softening it up, so that more young people, people with disabilities and also immigrants get an arena to try to get into the workplace? I have, through my eight years as a politician in this house, met many young people, immigrant youth and people with disabilities who say, "I should like to have an arena and show myself on – only I had that arena, I should have shown that I am doing. We want to create that arena for those people and make it easier to get fixed-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e610	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e613	When talking about inclusive working life, it is clear that the Work Environment Act is important, because it must also be a law that helps to protect workers and ensure that they can work for a long time. The council will not make itself a sensor over previous governments, and that's why I can do it. I believe it is obvious that Bondevik went too far, and I am pleased that this government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has been concerned that one should not go so far in the changes that are to come. One must have no liberalisation, but one must have adjustments to a more modern working life and the time we live in. When you talk about the IA agreement to be concluded, I am glad that the Council of State signals that he wants a new agreement. There is a lot in the agreement that works, and there is something that doesn't work so well. One also sees clearly that there are differences — where companies take a clear responsibility and management goes into and focuses on various important measures, one usually achieves good results. My question is: when the Council of State wants more measures and improvements, what measures does it not seem to be working well in today's agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e622	I'm going to wake up well to start going into concrete terms about the different measures. I think it's probably understanding in the Storting and wisely by the Council of State to sit down with the social partners and discuss the different measures, and that we're doing things in the right order. But let me point out one thing, and that is that the medical practice we have today has created unnecessary bureaucracy both for employers in the form of follow-up, for Nav in the case of follow-up, and not least for doctors who feel that there is a problem that there is more bureaucracy. Finally, it's the sick person who becomes the wasteball between those systems. Here I see clearly that we need to get more simplification that will give you a closer, better and seamless follow-up of the sick person. The aim is not to create bureaucracy with the tools, the aim is to create good tools to ensure that the sick person gets back to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e627	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e630	The point of the IA agreement to get more included in the working life is no coincidence. It's an incredibly important social goal, and a desire to get the parties into it. It is absolutely essential for both human dignity and the development of society that one has social security. This is becoming increasingly demanding. I know that the four-year rule regarding redundancy payments expires in March next year for 63 900, cf. number from Nav in September. At the same time, we have a historically high level of work immigration in practical professions, and many of them compete for the same jobs. So it's very demanding. My question is this: with regard to those who have partial working capacity, those we must include, are the measures to be taken by the employer and, for example, by the public at present good enough for them to be employed with their working capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e637	It is an important question for the representative Lundtigen to address, and that is precisely why we should look at that part when we are going to sit down and negotiate with the parties and discuss the measures to enter into a new IA agreement. It will be an important moment to find good solutions to this, for there is once again largely in the public sector. Then I must be allowed to say that the representative Lundtigen's party has been in government for eight years before us. The most neglected sub-target is sub-target two, which Lundtegen here is occupied with. Why hasn't the previous government done what Lundtigen thinks you should have done in the eight years you've been in government? In the case of redundancy payments, those who expire there, the previous government has been sitting for eight years without following up on those people at all. I've been sitting for four years -- no, four weeks, sorry, I hope I can sit for four years and maybe longer -- and we've already started the follow-up of those people and started to give 20,000 of them an explanation just in the weeks we've been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e646	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e649	My question goes to Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson. One of the most unsocial cuts that the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed to do is the severe cut in the old-age pension for the disabled. This is about people who have no opportunity to work more and more to zero the impact of the lifestyle adjustment, a scheme that the Progress Party has been so opposed that they would remove it for everyone. It is therefore particularly outrageous that the first thing they do is to remove the half shielding that the red-green government got in place for those who have had a disability – the most vulnerable, those who can't do anything to counteract the cuts. And there's a lot of money -- the full effect of this is $6 billion. kr to be sucked out of the wallets of the sickest old age pensioners. Many people have been miserable all their lives and have had no opportunity to nullify this effect. A report that came from the Young People with Disabilities organisation this week shows, among other things. that through life, on average, they have NOK 10,000 less a month to live off than everyone else. In addition, they must now experience the full effect of the age adjustment. Then my question to the Progress Party is this: Why does the Progress Party think that disability on retirement has too much money, while on the other hand they believe that the richest people in this country should have millions in tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e658	Let me first remind you – and it is quite right that the representative, Andersen, points out – that the Progress Party was the only party outside the pension reform. This government and I have a clear mandate to finalise the pension reform in a good way. It would have been alarming if a government council had stood in this room and said that he would not implement the Storting decision – it would have been alarming. Those who have introduced lifestyle adjustments include, inter alia: the previous government and SV, Karin Andersen's own party. Once life expectancy adjustment has already been introduced, I believe it is both natural and reasonable to have equal living adjustments for all retirement pensioners, who ensure that you do not end up in a situation where one who works until he is 67 years old, with exactly the same assumptions as one who has worked partly and partly absent, comes out worse as an old-age pensioner than one who has been unemployed. I don't think that appeals to several older people to stand longer in the workplace, there would be an unfair system in my head. Once life expectancy adjustment has been introduced, it is important for us to make sure that we have equal living adjustments for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e664	The size has adopted half-life adjustments for disabled persons on retirement pensions, precisely because they cannot benefit from what are the mechanisms of the pension agreement, namely that one can stand longer to eliminate the impact of the retirement adjustment. That's why it was so important for SV, when we worked with a new disability benefit, that this scheme should be in place. I really expected that a party that claims to have a social profile, but that has also been concerned with the pensioners, would have doubted the protection that these old-age pensioners have. But it may be that the Party colleague of the Minister of Labour from the Progress Party, who is today in many newspapers and says that the party has become a party more for academics and nationalists than for ordinary people, is right. The Minister of Labour sees the lopsided policy of distribution as, among other things, this proposal involves?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e671	This government, this Minister of Labour, sees that the Stortinget has taken a decision that also involves evaluating the pension reform and the living adjustment by 2018. This Minister of Labour, this government, also sees that the Stortinget has already adopted a new disability pension reform with effect from 1 January 2015. I would like to remind the representative Karin Andersen that her former head of government, Jens Stoltenberg, also said that it is rare that you are either completely ill or completely healthy – everyone is in the middle. We get a new disability system that allows you to combine work and disability in a much more flexible way. It will also make it even more sensible to have a level playing field once life expectancy adjustment has been introduced for all pensioners. My question back then is: how can you measure the different lifestyle adjustments if you work 60 pst. and is 40 pst. - What's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e680	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e683	This is a narrowing logic, but it is not going to get away from the fact that with this proposal the Progress Party introduces a quite different relationship to the working line. On the one hand, the government will give more money to more people not to work, through the cash support, while those who are sick or after a long working life have worn out and do not have the opportunity to work any longer, will be punished with lower pension payments. We have heard the Minister of Labour try to explain this, but I want to ask the Minister of Labour: what does he have to say to those people who will now be paid less pension without being able to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e690	What this Minister of Labour and this government can say to those pensioners is that the Stortinge has adopted a pension reform with a living-age adjustment. This government is concerned with a clear social profile, but we are also concerned with a clear justice in the way we organize and organise the policy. That's why it's fair for all old-age pensioners to have the same standard of living. This will give you a simpler, debureaucratic system that will give you a more accurate way of calculating pensions. I think that makes sense. I think it is good to ensure that we have justice in the pension system – that this government is in line with the decision of the Storting. Although the Progress Party was opposed to the pension reform, we have to deal with the Storting decision – something else would have been alarming – and implement it in a fair manner. That the principle of justice is underpinned, I think is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e697	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e700	I am recording that the Council of State in this matter is trying to push them with graduated pensions in front of them. It's a bureaucratic argument that I figured we'd get fewer from this government. But I think it's an artificial argument that it's a pity that we've been working and earning pensions all our lives, because we keep a small advantage for those who haven't had that opportunity. We who have worked all our lives will probably have more to live on as old-age pensioners than those who never got the opportunity to work. It's not just the lifestyle adjustment we're talking about here. From the government platform, it may also look like a ghost of the children’s supplement while they are under-pensioners. I wonder, what wrong have they done, that gets the Right Party government to take from them the small benefits they might have?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e709	Let me be very clear that they have done nothing wrong. We have to make sure that they get a good income hedge in the future as well. There's this government busy. But this government is also concerned with a fair system. I really have to say that I am a little surprised when the representative Christoffersen calls it the gradation of disability, for a ‘bureaucratic argument’. Wasn't that the whole point when the previous government with a unanimous increase went in favour of that graduation, that it would be easier to combine social security and work, so that the individual could be helped to take out his or her working capacity in a positive way? If it has suddenly become bureaucratic and the Workers' Party has gone away from the line of work, I think it is very surprising. For this government, it is very important to facilitate motivation and make it easy for individuals to use their work skills, and that they also have something left to do. I think that's a good, fair policy, and that's what this government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e718	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e721	I must admit that I smile a little when I hear the red-green ones. It seems that when the government has decided for something, it's the way it is. Then I would like to remind the House that the new parliamentary situation means that the government needs a majority in order for matters to be adopted. The Christian People's Party does not want to remove the half of the standard of living that they do not have. When you're talking about lifestyle adjustment, about pension systems, there's complicated issues, but I think it's reasonable that my generation, we who are probably living a little bit longer -- the calculations show it -- can compensate for it working a little bit longer. But it's not as easy for someone who's out of work, who doesn't have the opportunity to work, to compensate for someone who's going to live to work any longer – for one can't work. I hope that the Council of State and the Government will see and assess that point before they bring a case to Stortinget. I want to challenge the Council of State: how does he intend to get the matter through in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e730	This government will naturally take the Storting in the deepest seriousness. We're going to come up with issues for the Storting that we think are fair. I know the Christian People's Party as a party that is also very concerned with justice, that it should pay off to work, and that you have good incentives for it. So I feel pretty sure that we're going to be able to come up with good, sensible and fair solutions to both what's left of the pension reform and other issues with the Christian People's Party and the Left of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e738	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e741	My question is to the Minister of State. One of the major and important tasks of Norwegian municipalities is to ensure a good childcare service. When the Right was in opposition, we experienced that they were often very critical of the ambitions we had in kindergarten, despite a large-scale expansion of kindergartens in that period. About a year ago, we challenged right here in Stortinget on their own ambitions that municipalities should facilitate continuous admission. The current family-political spokeswoman in Right, Linda Hofstad Helleland, then said: ‘In our alternative state budget, we have to deal with the red-green system that applies. But of course, we're going to find the money that's needed when we get to the government offices next autumn. The same applies to continuous admission into kindergartens. The right has not yet adopted our new programme, and it will not apply until the next majority period.’ The status now is that the Right has adopted its new programme, and it says that it is necessary to ensure that municipalities facilitate continuous inclusion. However, we can see that the programme has obviously not yet begun to apply. In the municipal scheme that we presented a few weeks ago, we added money to extend the right to children's playground and escalate against two admissions. But when the additional proposition from the Right and the Advance Party came last week, we could see that what they thought was too little ambitious last year, was too ambitious this year – and after the elections. I have recorded that the Minister of State is talking a lot about simplification, but why is it more important for the Right to prioritize large tax cuts for those who have the most of them before, rather than to simplify their daily lives for Norwegian families with young children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e759	When the President does not point that out, perhaps I should do so, namely that this is a matter that is under the control of another Council of State, and it is practice in the Grand Duchy to ask the questions to the Council of State that is responsible. However, I choose to answer that, because it's a little special that a government that's been sitting for eight years, and that's all the way up until the roll call, argued against two admissions because it was too expensive, suddenly finds that it's going to be included in the budget on the way out of the ministry offices. I think that might say more about the government that was on its way out than about the government that has come in, that does not have on its platform that it will carry out two babysittings. What we have chosen to prioritise in the budget for next year is what we have promised, namely equal treatment between municipal and non-municipal or private kindergartens. It is important for many young children’s parents, and it is important for the provision and diversity in the kindergarten sector. We also implement other measures in the budget that contribute to greater freedom of choice for families.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e764	I did not think I got a very good answer to the question I asked, namely how a Council of State and a government that is so concerned with simplifying rhetoric, does not prioritise it in politics and through the budget. When it is stated in the Right Programme that it is difficult to understand that the municipalities are able to perform continuous recordings, it is difficult to understand in any other way than that there is something that the Right has promised to their voters. I also think it is a little surprising that the municipal councillor is trying to get away from his responsibilities in this area, because it is not the case today that municipalities are not able to carry out continuous admissions, but it costs money to do so. Therefore, it is important that there is money for this in the municipal scheme. Therefore, my question is, Will the Minister of State contribute to the success of the municipalities in the years to come, to the fulfilment of the right's very clear election promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e771	With the risk of becoming formal in general: let me just repeat that there is another Council of State that is constitutionally responsible for the questions raised and that the questions raised in the Questionnaire are linked to the Government Platform. But when that's said, there's also a difference between the continuous admission and the two babysitting. On-going recordings may facilitate municipalities in a way other than by the adoption of two recordings by the accumulation and government. It is also the case that, in addition to our 2014 budget, we are maintaining the growth of free income for the municipalities, yes, we are actually increasing it slightly in relation to the red-green government. The red-green parties should take over – they used the entire election campaign to say that a Right-wing Party government would rage over the municipal economy – that we have actually strengthened the free revenues of the municipalities. And yes, we are going to facilitate a good, solid and predictable economy for the municipalities in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e778	There will be three follow-up questions – first the representative Rigmor Aasrud. The President will stress that the issue must be related not only to the main issue but also to the responsibility of the Minister of Municipal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e783	I record that the Council of State Sanner will not answer children's gardening questions in concrete terms, but let me nevertheless relate my question to kindergartens. Over the last few years, we've heard that the Right has new ideas and better solutions. It's been a mantra that's been going on for years. I expect that the Right then not only has new ideas, but also has better solutions to some questions. With regard to the governance of the local government sector, it can either be done through frameworks, funds, or it can be done through laws and regulations. And we've heard the Sanner Government Council say that you have to bet more on local democracy – less laws and rules. There is also less money to be given to municipalities to implement what is in the Right Children's Court Programme. What tools does the Council of State Sanner see for itself that municipalities should be managed in order to achieve the objectives of the Right Programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e792	Let me first say that I have answered the question of kindergartens, I have replied that we have given priority to the government that has promised, namely increased equal treatment of municipal and non-municipal or private kindergartens. It was also a promise that the red-green government gave, but that the red-green government chose to break. Similarly, in the case of two kindergartens, the red-green parties – and the Labour Party in particular – thought before the elections that it was almost irresponsible and too expensive, but on the way out of the government offices, it was found that it was appropriate to put it into a budget for which no responsibility was given. So we follow up on the promises made by the Right Party government. We're going to measure on what's on our platform, and I'm sure we're going to deliver on it. And yes, we're going to make sure that the municipalities have a solid, good and predictable economy in the years to come, which allows the municipalities to take their responsibility to provide good childcare facilities for the country's young children's parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e797	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e800	It is a sign that a government council has a bad case when it starts pushing the formal in front of it all the time, instead of dealing with the policy that a government council is responsible for. In the red-green period, we first prioritised full child care coverage, because we thought the most important thing was that there should be full child care coverage throughout the country. It was a major freedom of choice reform that we carried out. When we had done that, we increased the cash support to NOK 5000 for the smallest children, because we thought it gave greater freedom of choice for small children's families. The next project we saw started was two annual babysittings, and we wanted to give that money through the municipal minister's budget, because we wanted to strengthen the municipalities' ability to carry out two annual babysittings. The right said last year that it would have dramatic consequences for the families of young children to have to wait an entire year to get kindergarten. What's the difference between last year and this year? Is there still dramatic consequences when small children's families have to wait an entire year, or would it be wiser to introduce two recordings, as the previous government wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e807	Let me start by giving homage to the growth in the number of kindergartens and the kindergarten reform that was adopted. I think that is a reform that the red-green government carried out, which will also be in retrospect. There were not so many other reforms, but that reform was implemented. It was important, and it was important for the country's young children's parents. Let me repeat that in the case of two babysittings, the Right Party government has not promised it. We deliver on what we have promised in our platform, and that is equal treatment for municipal and non-municipal kindergartens. That promise also has the red-green given, but they didn't keep it. Two nursery receptions thought the Workers' Party was almost irresponsible before the elections, and then it was proposed in a budget that was not to be held accountable. It's that simple. But then it is clear that we are going to facilitate a good municipal economy in the years to come, which allows several municipalities to carry out ongoing childcare services. I think that is both right and desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e817	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – to the last follow-up question. The President again recalls that representatives should ask questions related to the territory of the Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e822	There is complete confusion about who is actually responsible for kindergartens. We asked questions about an exactly similar situation in the last week, when Prime Minister Solberg answered questions. On a challenge from finally Rigmor Aasrud she replied that one should enable the municipalities to have a running recording. Then came the budget last week. There, the new government went away from increasing the number of kindergartens, so that one would step up against running admissions. It is the municipal minister who is supposed to be able to have a running recording, which is a much more expensive solution than having two recordings, a much more ambitious system. My question to the municipal minister is, how should a municipality be able to have a running recording?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e829	There is no confusion as to who is responsible for kindergartens. The constitutional responsibility lies with the minister of knowledge, and my responsibility is with the municipalities. We are concerned that municipalities should have a predictable and good economy, and that way you can facilitate continuous recording if that is what the municipalities prioritise. For this government, it is also important to respect local self-government. Norway is a diverse country, where there are different challenges in towns and cities. Then it is important that we have the greatest possible responsibility in the municipalities, so that they can give priority to what they think is important. Some municipalities will facilitate continuous admission within the framework they have, and other municipalities will give a different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e836	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e848	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice and Defence. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time, as the Minister of Justice and Security has left. Question 3, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport, who is responsible. The question falls, however, as the questioner is not present. Question 4, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Questions 9, 10 and 11 from Kjersti Toppe, Martin Henriksen and Anne Tingelstad Wøien, respectively, to the Minister of Knowledge, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e874	This issue has been transferred to the Minister of Justice and Defence. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time, as the Minister of Justice and Security has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e881	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘The guarantees for Norwegian deposits are important for the stability and security of the Norwegian economy. The EU is working with new rules on deposit guarantee for bank deposits, which may lead to a pressure to weaken the Norwegian scheme. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian interests are safeguarded in the ongoing negotiations in the EU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e895	In Norway, deposits are guaranteed up to 2 million. kr per depositor per bank. Solid banks and a good and credible deposit guarantee scheme are important elements of Norwegian financial regulation and contribute to the stability and tranquillity of banks. In particular, this is important in times of economic downturn. I want to follow up on the good work that, with the support of all the political parties in Stortinget, has so far been done to maintain the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme. I have also made this very clear in the supplementary proposal that the government made last Friday. In the EU, the level of coverage of the deposit guarantee scheme has been harmonised to EUR 100 000 in all EU countries. This provision has been proposed to be continued in a major revision of the Deposit Guarantee Directive which is now being worked on in the EU. The European Parliament, at its first reading of the case in February 2012, adopted a provision to meet Norway’s need to maintain the current level of coverage. Shortly before the government change, the European Parliament and the Council resumed trialogue negotiations on the Deposit Guarantee Directive. The Ministry of Finance became aware at the beginning of October that these trialogues between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission discussed a concrete transitional arrangement for Norway in which historical deposits can, by a certain date, maintain the current level of coverage for five years from the entry into force of the Directive. I will continue to work actively to allow Norway to continue our deposit guarantee scheme on a permanent basis. But we cannot close our eyes to the discussion that is actually taking place in the EU. I have therefore sent a letter this week to all the central people involved in the trialogue negotiations, to stress that the new government fully supports the work of the previous government in this matter. Furthermore, I argue on both a principle and a practical basis against a division between historical and new deposits. Such a distinction would be impossible to introduce, as Finanz Norway has also underlined in its letter of 5 November of this year to the parties to the trialogue negotiations. In the letter I have now sent, I propose that a possible transitional period be extended much longer than five years. Following the latest draft directive that we are familiar with, the EU itself operates with transitional rules up to 2027. It is only then that the EU itself can talk about harmonised rules in the EU. A good and credible deposit guarantee scheme helps customers to trust that their deposits are safe and that deposits are a good and stable source of funding for banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e910	Thanks for the answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance is so clear that she wants to work actively to keep the Norwegian scheme as it is. Then one can add that if the Minister of Finance argues in principle against transitional arrangements, which I agree with, it is not so important how long the transitional regime really is. Transitional arrangements are also relevant only if we lose the case in question. I think Norway has a good cause. It is not the case that there is a capital injection to Norway even though we have a higher limit on deposit guarantees than the EU has. However, I am somewhat concerned, and I therefore wonder what the Minister of Finance will do if Norway does not reach the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e917	I think we have to take one step at a time. The starting point now is to argue for the permanent exemption and stick to it. At the same time, however, I stress as much as I can, that it is not feasible to divide the deposits, and also that any transitional period must at least be as long as the European Union grants itself. I think that the representative Serigstad Valen should also be concerned with the length of the transitional regime if there is to be a new discussion. But my starting point and my government's starting point is to focus on arguing to keep the arrangement we have, which is good, and which works well for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e922	All the time the Minister of Finance talks about transitional arrangements, it is open in the debate that we cannot achieve our primary position towards the European Union. In that case it will be very unfortunate, and it will be serious. That is why I wonder whether the Minister for Finance sees more action options than agree to a transitional arrangement. I wonder, for example. whether the Minister of Finance will allow the Norwegian Government to exercise the right of reservation in order to prevent the introduction of the acquis in Norway, which would weaken the Norwegian banking deposit limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e927	I repeat what I said earlier, that now we have to take one step at a time. I believe that the most important thing now is that the signal and voice coming from Norway should be as clear and clear as they have been all along, namely that we will argue for the permanent derogation. Starting a big and comprehensive discussion about alternatives can send bad signals, when we are actually fully in agreement from the Norwegian side, across all the political parties, that we should do everything we can to ensure the permanent exception. This is also the case – I would just like to inform you – that the EU delegation is now following up the letters I sent on 11 November, in the same way that the EU delegation has been doing all along through discussions with completely central people in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e945	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Transport, who is the appropriate person. The question falls, however, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e959	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e966	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘In Europe, the United States and Japan, a new generation of radiation treatments for cancer called particle therapy has been introduced in the last decade. It gives a stronger and more precise effect, and it is estimated that it can be critical for approx. 1 500 patients per year in Norway. A working group has proposed building three particle therapy centres in Bergen, Trondheim and Oslo. In the election campaign, Right Bent Höie would not respond to how they addressed this. How will the Council of State follow the plans to build particle therapy centres in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e975	Particle therapy, especially proton therapy, has increasingly been used internationally. There is reason to believe that particle therapy would be preferable to conventional radiation therapy for an increasing number of cancers. Particle therapy is less damaging to surrounding tissues and is particularly important in the radiotherapy of children and young people. At the company meeting in September, under the previous government, regional health firms were commissioned to carry out an idea phase work for the establishment of regional proton centres in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. Health West was asked to manage the work, with contributions from the other regional health businesses. A mandate shall be drawn up with objectives, assumptions and frameworks for the project and shall describe the need for resources and the plan for implementation of the design phase. The work shall be carried out by 1 December 2014. A coordinating unit has been established by one of the proton centres responsible for ensuring a geographically fair distribution of patients and for the coordination of joint protocols on which patients are to be treated. Furthermore, it shall be envisaged to develop a national cooperation model in which university clinics with proton units cooperate with other non-site clinics and establish a national research cooperation on particle therapy. I believe that the establishment of particle therapy in Norway will be a significant boost for cancer patients and for patient-oriented research. In order to ensure Norwegian cancer patients access to proton therapy until Norway has built up its own treatment provision, an acquisition process has recently been carried out that has agreed with proton centres in the United States and in Europe. The agreement requires the availability of treatment sites for Norwegian patients filling the indication for treatment. The agreements apply from the autumn of 2013. I want to follow up on the work started by establishing proton centers in Norway. I am also concerned that Norwegian health professionals will be given the opportunity to build their skills on proton therapy until we can offer this type of treatment in their own centres in Norway. It is therefore important that Norwegian health professionals are given the opportunity to accompany the patients to the centres with which we have agreed and to host them. I will follow this up with the regional health companies, so that when we make these significant investments in this type of offer in Norway, we will ensure that we have actually spent the time until it builds up the necessary skills to have full use of these centres once they are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e994	I thank you for a positive response and for following up the thread that had started this summer. Norway has been in deficit there, so there is a need to give up. I have a follow-up question about these agreements. It is estimated that it may be up to 1,500 patients per year in Norway who absolutely need this type of treatment and where it can be decisive. So far, it's only been about five years. 40 people who have been sent abroad for that type of treatment – that is the number I have been given. What the Council of State now said, that new agreements would be reached, that there would be a much larger volume of patients able to access this type of treatment in the years we have to wait for the new centres in Norway, because it is clear that it will take a good many years. How large will there be in the number of patients who can receive proton therapy abroad in the coming years while waiting for our own centers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1003	As I said in my reply, agreements have now been concluded with centres both in Europe and in the United States. This was done in the light of the mission given by the Ministry in 2012 to the Health Directorate to establish a radiotherapy service with proton therapy for Norwegian patients. The agreement requires the availability of treatment sites for Norwegian patients filling the indication for such treatment. The agreement shall be valid for two years with the possibility of extension for up to two years at a time, each time of one year, for a total of four years. Therefore, the agreements will cover the treatment of Norwegian patients until 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1010	Now I asked if the Council of State could say something about the number you take into account in these agreements, for the distance between the number that has received that type of treatment to now, approx. Forty pieces in five years, and what is needed estimated in the Norwegian Centre Planning Report, up to 1,500, are large. These are very serious cancers in which the tumors are difficult, like for example. pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, gastrointestinal cancer, rectum cancer, etc., where you can see that the need is great. I would like to get a more precise answer to what volume you add up to. The second additional question I have is: When does the Council of State see that the new proton therapy centres in Norway can be established? The Council of State said that it would be a pre-stage project until the next harvest, but when will we be able to target and have these centres in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1017	With regard to the first question, the agreement does not imply that a pre-payment or obligation has been made to regional health care establishments on the place where patients are to be sent or on the number of patients to be sent. The payment is triggered when the patient is sent to treatment and proton therapy is financed as other health care services in the specialist healthcare services over the basic frameworks of regional health enterprises. It has been assumed that the treatment may be applicable to about 50 patients per year, from 2014. Most of them are children who need curative radiation treatment, who are offered proton radiation. This would be about 30 patients per year. As the scheme is implemented in the professional environment, the number of patients will increase, and according to the Health Directorate, the number of patients in 2016 will be close to 100, with the expected level of 350-400 patients in 2020. The last question I can't answer now because this is some of the preliminary study's answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1030	I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Minister of Agriculture to the Parliament for the first time. I look forward to many battles. I have the following questions: ‘The Minister of Agriculture said about Norwegian agricultural policy to VG Helg on 2 November that ‘there are at the same time so many support schemes without rational justification that have emerged in recent years, only because of the lobbying of farmers’ organisations’. Can the Council of State explain and specify which support schemes do not have rational justification and have arisen only because of the lobbying of the peasant organisations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1039	First, I have to thank you for the opportunity to come to Stortinget for the first time as State Council. The Government governs on the basis of the cooperation agreement, which states that the Agricultural Contracting Institute is to be maintained. These negotiations have developed a comprehensive instrument with many mechanisms. Many cross-cutting considerations are being addressed. Many schemes have been put in place, both on a proposal from the country and from the agricultural organisations. The reasons can be more or less good individually and aim to help solve central but also more peripheral issues. There are issues that in other sectors would be up to the industry itself to take responsibility for. In sum, it has provided a complex and unwieldy system. I have the ambition to modernise and simplify the agricultural agreement and the instruments of agricultural policy. It will make everyday life easier for business operators. It is important to red tape and to reduce resource use in administration, and it is important for the agricultural policy debate. Not least, I would like to assess the rationality of the schemes based on the emphasis the government has on agricultural policy. The Sundvolden platform states that the main objective of agricultural policy is to provide cost-effective food production and that government will organise state transfers to contribute to increased production. Simplification is also mentioned in an offensive way in the last communication on agriculture and food, but until now simplification in agricultural policy has been something for which everyone has been, in principle. The red-green government never managed to deliver simplification in practice. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1050	This was strictly not an answer to the question. I fully agree that we can go into a debate on Norwegian agricultural policy and ask questions about rational and appropriateness, as well as about simplification and intransigence, as the Council of State pointed out in its reply. In many ways the disagreement is not methodically there, but it is said in this article that there are aid schemes which are without rational justification and which have only appeared because of lobbying. I almost have to repeat my question, because I think that the debate around one of our main primary industries deserves clear answers from a government council that has great ambitions in the field, and that it is actually concrete and specifies which schemes are without rational justification, and that have only emerged from lobbying.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1057	I have now met with the peasant organizations and started a process of good dialogue with them. One of the conditions I have challenged them is just what arrangements they think we can look at. I have set up a race where we will have a full review of all support schemes, with the aim of reducing the number. I will go through different forms of project making, infrastructure support, agricultural development fund schemes, agri-environment schemes and regional environmental programmes, to name a few examples. But I am not going to start a detailed discussion about individual arrangements at this point in time, because I believe the most important thing now is to work towards the offer that the state will make in the agricultural negotiations in 2015, and that we need to look at it in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1066	I record that we still do not get answers to a pretty blatant claim to the media just after joining as a government council, and as many people are waiting for in suspense: what does it mean to have support schemes that are not rational? But since you are now in Stortinget, where you have a full obligation to provide information, I will also allow myself to ask, since the Council of State has a background from the lobbying industry, whether there are any of the organisations she has assisted as a lobbyist towards the back industry in agriculture, and in that case which have been able to result in non-rational support schemes, which are driven only on the basis of lobbying. What organizations has she herself assisted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1073	With regard to these support schemes, we know that those who have been in the Ministry of Agriculture before me have had quite close ties with the farmers’ organisations – some have even come from there in different places. That was the background for me to mention that there had been close cooperation and was facilitated for lobbying. As far as the specific question is concerned, I, as the representative of Storberget, have signed an agreement with the company I previously worked for. That is why I cannot get into which organisations or others I have had as customers, but I will of course assess my stability if situations arise that require it. I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1084	I would also like to welcome the Council of State to Stortinget. It will be both demanding and important – it will be safe. My question is: ‘According to the agricultural total calculation, preliminary accounts for 2012 show that the debt level excluding leasing is record high, of about 50 billion. kr, at the same time as turnover amounted to 39 bn. kr. [[total market revenue and government budget appropriations]] Governments warn against household debt levels in relation to disposable income. Does the Council of State consider that the level and development of agricultural debt is economically sound in the future in the light of the agricultural policy of the new government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1095	The representative Lundtigen made a link in his question between the development of the debt level of agriculture under the previous government and what is supposed to happen under the policy of the new government. It's going to be a very hypothetical question. According to the total agricultural account of the Ministry of Agriculture, agriculture has a total capital of 102 billion in 2012. kr and loan capital of SEK 49,6 billion. kr. It gives an equity share of over 50 pst. — it is high compared to most other businesses in Norway. Interest on borrowed capital is calculated at SEK 2,1 billion. kr, giving an average interest rate of 4,07 pst. I assume that the representative of Lundtigen thinks about ‘economic soundness’ is whether the industry will be able to operate its loans, and at the same time be left with a decent income. In the same material, the remuneration for labour and capital is calculated at Bn 13,8. kr, while the real interest rate on borrowed capital is SEK 1,5 billion. kr. As a result, the industry has good opportunities to operate its loans at macro level. However, on single use there will be significant differences between those who have recently made large investments and those who neither reinvest nor maintain. This government will pay the highest attention to the first group, precisely because it is the one that will constitute the future of agriculture. We would like, among other things: facilitate the conditions for initial investment. I expect businessmen to make good judgements and settle on an investment level and a debt ratio they can serve. Here too, credit institutions will have to contribute. The government, through its policy, will take responsibility by providing predictable and good framework conditions. I want to remind you that this government has been sitting for a month. The policy has been little designed and implemented towards the industry yet. In the government's political platform, however, we say a few things about what will be the direction of agricultural policy in the future: The government will focus on predictability and reforms that can increase profitability. We should give priority to the means of full-time use, which derives a greater proportion of its income from agriculture. It provides a more sound economic policy, as it is this type of use that has often invested most and is most vulnerable to varying market revenue and interest rates. Through policy, we should contribute to reducing the level of costs and constraints of agriculture in terms of exploiting the income potential of single use. We're going to use targeted tax arrangements to strengthen the farmer's position. We're going to reduce bureaucracy and give nutritionists a simpler everyday life. All these are measures that will help skilled farmers in the future to both invest and be able to serve their obligations. The detailed formulation of the policy will come gradually, and then I have great faith that the concern expressed in the questions raised by Mr Lundtigen will prove to be unfounded.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1130	My question is related to what the government is aiming for in the future. It is quite right that the representative Lundtigen has a considerable respect for the risk that it is in Norwegian agriculture today economically. Financial supervision, in line with the views of the Minister of Finance, warns against the risk to households in general, where the level of debt is now almost twice the disposable income. For agriculture it is far worse. There is now a level of debt, including leasing, about one and a half times the turnover, or about five times the net income! That debt is very unevenly distributed. Does the Council not see the risk problems of continuing to have strong investments without having the necessary investment performance?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1139	As I was inside, there is a distinction here between those who have invested a long time ago, and who have disbursed loans – or at least almost disbursed loans – and those who have reinvested. That's why this government is clear that we have to make arrangements for those who are to invest, which makes it possible to live on their own income. That is why I mentioned, inter alia: in my reply to the representative, Lundtägen, it is by twisting the support of those who live on this full-time. It's precisely because if you're going to make a big loan – many are investing millions of dollars – you're going to be left with money both to pay the loan and to be able to feed the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1144	It is clear that there are major differences in agriculture. It's those who have invested a lot, who have the big debt. And that's who we're talking about. The government says there's going to be even more investment. When one at the same time says that prices are going to fall rather, the appropriations are going to fall in total by the industry, and the level of interest rates is very uncertain – it might as well go up significantly than down – is my question: Does not the new government now lead a number of people into an even more risky situation, when one wants to further strengthen investment in an industry that does not have the necessary earnings?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1151	No – on the contrary, our ambition is to make it easier to live on agriculture in the future. Then we have to look at exactly what we were dealing with in the previous question, all the support schemes that are, and how we use them. The important thing is that the farmers are going to be left with the most, and especially those who live on this full-time. Then I fully agree with Lundtegen that, of course, if young people are going to take over farms, they will require large investments in many places. This is precisely why I am committed to signaling that the investment regime is becoming important, investment aid is becoming important, but also what incomes you have if you want to live on agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1162	«The Minister of State replied to a question about ostetoll at the meeting of the Nordic Council on 29 October that she disagreed on the current use of customs duties on cheese. Later, the Minister of Agriculture has signaled that the government will not change the ostetoll as of today. In the cooperation agreement of the bourgeois parties, there is no mention of the ostetoll. Thus, the government has given conflicting signals regarding the maintenance of the ostetoll. What is the government's policy on the cheese toll in the future?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1169	There is no contradiction between what the Prime Minister has said in the Nordic Council and what I have signaled in different media. The starting point for our assessment is that the government disagrees with the decision to change the duty rates for cheese and meat from 2013, which was implemented by the previous government. This government will not make such proposals in the next four years. Changes in customs duties have been very negatively received in the EU. We attach great importance to good cooperation with our key trading partners and neighbours in the EU in the continuation. This applies in general, but also in this case. At the same time, the government must take into account the fact that customs change is perceived as an important issue for groups in Norway — such as agriculture and the food industry. The changes in customs duties are also part of the premises for the price increases envisaged for cheese and meat under the agricultural agreement in force. As you know, this agreement expires in the first half of 2014. In other words, this matter requires more thorough treatment than could be done in a few weeks before our budget was submitted. This does not change the government's view on the matter, but means that we take the time to handle the matter properly before the final decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1184	Then I find that you want to change the customs duties on cheese. When this was introduced, a price shock and a smaller selection of cheese were predicted. It hasn't happened. From 1998 to 2012, imports of agricultural products have actually doubled, and quotas have also increased. This is the scares propaganda from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left that have not turned on but that have led to a greater EU attention on this issue and that has made the EU-Norway relationship more focused than it really should have been. That's the point, because here we're not talking about specialties from Europe. We fight to hold the cheeses that we need every day, such as lunch cheese and pizza cheese – this to maintain the existence of 40,000 dairy farmers and have raw materials for the Norwegian food industry, which needs them. My question to the Minister is: has this alarming propaganda we have seen led to the fall in cheese imports in 2013, and has it become worse for cheese in the Ostedian countries now than for example. A year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1193	We have a customs-free quota that is quite significant and that Norway is using. I have also registered that some cheese retailers and consumers have stated to the media that they believe that the sample has become worse. There's something you have to write behind your ear. As I said earlier, the most important thing for us is to have a proper and good procedure in this case. So we're going to spend a little bit more time deciding how to deal with it. There is no doubt that this case has damaged the relationship with the EU. I received a congratulations from the European Commissioner for Agriculture when I joined, with a very strong use of words, who spoke about this matter in concrete terms. For this government it is important to have a good relationship with the EU. It's our largest export market, we export goods for 750 billion. kr every year, so we will also continue to focus on having a good relationship with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1202	In fact, the import of cheese has increased by 3 pst. from the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of this year. It is also the case that the sample in the Ostedian population has increased over the same period. This should perhaps be checked by the Minister – at least that is the figures I have. The challenge or problem is that with the way we have dealt with this, we have put ourselves in a bad light towards the European Union – on a problem that is not a problem, and where we have used the rules and opportunities we have had. I see that our new European Minister, Vidar Helgesen, says that the letter from the European Commissioner for Agriculture would have led to his having had his hair backwards. He should probably be more concerned about what the reactions had been about 40,000 dairy farmers and many thousands of food jobs had been lost, such as. the producers of Grandiosa. My question to the Minister is: Does the Minister for Agriculture share the European Minister's hair-driving concerns, or is she more concerned about the industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1211	As I said, I share the concern that the Red-Rhine government has damaged the relationship with the European Union, and that, as I said, is the context in which the EU is our most important export market, where Norwegian companies export goods for over 750 billion. kr. Having a good relationship with the EU is important. I think it is quite possible to both have a strong agriculture in Norway and look at the cheese toll. But I don't want to make any conclusion here and now. That's exactly what we've been signalling; that we want to spend more time dealing with this matter properly and in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-13.ana.ud69e1252	Questions Nos. 9–11 will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Case No. 3, Unit, has already been processed. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
