ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e209	Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Eva Kristin Hansen from 10 December until further notice. from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Kjell-Idar Juvik from 10 December to 13 December. from the representative Freddy de Ruiter on care leave for the period from 11 December to 13 December. by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of the Representative Morten Wold on 11 and 12 December to attend the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, and from the first and second alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Audun Otterstad and Gunn Elin Flakne respectively, applications are made for exemption from meeting in the Stortinget under the representatives Kjell-Idar Juvik and Eva Kristin Hansen's leave, respectively, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For East Agder County: Line VenneslandFor Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal BrataasFor Nordland County: Tor Arne Bell LjunggrenFor South Trondelag County: Ferhat Güven
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e275	Ferhat Güven is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 11.30 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 3:30 p.m. and continue outwards. 16.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e293	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e307	I have just a few comments from the presidency, because there have also been some media talks about recruiting a new civil ombudsman. The term of office of the current Civil Ombudsman, Arne Flivet, expires at the turn of the year, and a fairly comprehensive process has been initiated to recruit a new civil ombudsman, or woman, if you like. The work is announced, but with the conditions that it may be possible to choose someone who does not report their interest in that context. So it's actively working to recruit a new civil ombudsman. The deadline for interested parties to register is 12 December 2013, i.e. in a few days' time, and as the process of the election of the new Ombudsman will not be over until the autumn session of the Grand Duchy ends on 20 December of this year, we are asking that the term of office of the current Ombudsman be extended until 31 March 2014. This is done in consultation with the civil ombudsman himself, who also believes it might be okay that he submit his annual report before he ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e330	No one has asked for the floor. The President proposes that we take Case No. 8 up to treatment. It's for the sake of progress on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e346	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e353	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4-7 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections, so that the budget chapters of the Ministry of Culture, Framework 3, and then the budget chapters of the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge, Framework 2. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e408	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that parts 1 and 2 of the debate give rise to a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e415	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee, the members of all the parties, for flexibility, roughness and consistently good cooperation in order to put the position in a demanding budgetary process. Neither experienced nor new representatives have had a simple task of sorting in Prop. 1 S from the Stoltenberg government, Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 of the Government, the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left and majority decisions of the Committee. Yes, one should be particularly vigilant to refer to the different chapters and items correctly and with the correct result. So thank you for good cooperation! The current treatment budget provides the basis for historical efforts and solid transfers to the different parts of cultural life. The Government has established some clear and fundamental principles for its priorities and amendments to the 2014 budget. I am pleased that the government is so clear about the build-up of skills, giving clear signals about investing in education in all fields, and not least that it is also so clear in this field that good research needs to be established that can form the basis for further priorities and development. Research and development is strengthened by a total of 17.4 million. kr in this budget compared to 2013. Research and evaluation will provide a basis for good priorities in the coming years. Another clear signal is the continuous reliance on the practitioners themselves, on their willingness to deliver exciting content and good quality when they are only given the opportunity to unfold without a series of policy instructions to be followed in order to receive grants. The right and the Progress Party have confidence in the individual exerciser and in the organisations. By showing them trust, we will inspire good activities of high quality. Just quality and content are what this government has set as objectives for its policy priorities. The changes in cultural policy are perhaps the area of the year's budget which most clearly shows the great difference in the way of thinking between previous and new governments. Where the Stoltenberg government was only concerned about granting more money, the government is now more concerned about what the money is spent on, and whether they hit. When the money used triggers more offers, more users of the offers and more attention to content and quality, policy has been successful. For several years, the State Councils of the Stoltenberg government in the field of culture have had enormous attention to the budgetary situation and its increase. A review of their speech and play shows a clear and one-sided attention to this. Of course, it's fine with increased bets, and the right has supported that idea, but we thought it was about a real increase in bet. Now that we have put in the government offices and are asking about the content of the bet, it turns out that already existing entries from seven other departments have been collected to achieve the goal of what has been referred to as the Cultural Promise – and which is still referred to by the representatives of the Workers' Party as it – that 1 pst. shall be used for culture by 2014. So it turns out that 770 million. kr has been taken into the calculation that way. I expect that there are more of us in the Right who are deeply disappointed to find out that the cultural promise was simply the ‘Culture Bluff’. The Enger Committee's clear conclusion that the initiative has not created an increase in cultural use as it should, but that it has also created new systems and increased administration is, of course, in line with this. So how are we going to proceed with the cultural effort? I am pleased that the government is so clear that a thorough review, sector by sector, needs to be carried out to see how funds should be allocated and which actions or groups should be given priority first. The willingness and ability to prioritise is an important characteristic of a government. The government is acting in this regard. New policies are needed to achieve this government’s objective of increasing activity, improving quality and increasing the use of cultural services. The public libraries have been given a strong boost by the government adding an additional $12.1 million. to further develop these as meeting places and the debaters. Getting more visitors to the libraries, in various activities, will also be a good tool to increase the interest and knowledge of the library as a literature and expert. After the feedbacks to judge, the effort to develop new exciting offers inspires, and I have great faith that we have done well with this targeted priority. In this context, it is also important to note the majority position of the Committee, which supports the library in Fredrikstad by 0.5 million. kr, in addition to the bet already held in the literature houses in Oslo and Bergen. A new and exciting step in this budget is the new gift-enhancing scheme, set up with 10 million. kr. The scheme will provide inspiration to businesses and private individuals who are willing to support and who can increase their gift by 25 pst through this scheme. In this way, the gift-enhancing scheme could lead to 50 million. kr for cultural action, mainly based on increased private capital into the sector. The scheme is earmarked in this budget for the purchase of art to national and regional art museums as well as gifts of money for the repair of Norwegian museum facilities. The government sees this as a targeted and good mechanism to stimulate increased support for cultural life from private individuals and will consider extending the scheme to other areas in future budgets. Some have tried to suggest that this government does not bet on chrysm. They have not read the budget carefully. The budget is precisely focused on choirs, not least on the recruitment of choirs, among others. through the effort on the power roof for singing. In addition, the Government has considered it important to create predictability of the professional choirs by providing them with increased grants and permanent budget posts. I am also pleased that the majority of the committee, in consultation with the Left, has found money in support of both Folkemusik Nord and the Midnorsk centre for folk music and folk dance. Sport, the greatest movement of civil society, reaches many with good experiences among both practitioners and the public. It is also a significant contributor to public health, and it must be said that sport is, in total, a well-managed organisation. One of the major challenges for sport is the lack of good and up-to-date facilities. I am therefore very pleased that the VAT compensation continues, and it will be a good contribution to getting further installations in place. The right has always been a champion of volunteering. The enormous voluntary effort made here in the country is impossible to value, but we know that in many municipalities and agglomerations it is absolutely crucial for good life, for quality of life and public health. Volunteering is also the basis for decentralised preparedness and assistance in many places when crises occur. Voluntaryness is itself glued to any community and must be valued accordingly. The government will simplify the bureaucracy of voluntary activities and otherwise provide the framework conditions under which it will be able to concentrate on the interests and efforts of the community. It's a valuable and important priority. Finally, the Labour Party is trying to make it look like a cut and a crisis by comparing with a budget they provided on the way out of the ministries. Of course, it has no credibility. The working party and the other two red-green lots will necessarily be measured on what they supplied in government for eight years. Those years tell of little action, accounting shifts in order to achieve a cultural commitment and a total lack of attention to policy success. The budget we are dealing with today gives the sector a solid increase of well over 6 pst. - Yes, closer to 7 pst. There's a historical use of money in the field of culture. We are proud of that, and we are pleased to take on further priorities and policy developments so that confidence in the practitioners, current content and good quality will provide an offer that the citizens use and that cooperation partners will support. We will create predictability and give back through a well-functioning and more independent cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e441	I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. New government provides a new direction, including in cultural policy. Culture is fundamental to a society that focuses on democracy, community, freedom of expression and development. We need cultural expressions that challenge, unite and make us reach out as individuals and as communities. That's why it's so important that culture reaches everyone independently of social background, economy and geography. Our time needs a common cultural community built on common understanding, values, references and symbols, which are important prerequisites for a functioning democracy. An involvement in a common reality is really the most important weapon in the fight against intolerance and indifference. In this context, art can act as a valuable critical corrigendum and as a protection against water retention and social stagnation. Much indicates that the social divisions of the future are not primarily determined by the individual's economic heritage, but also by the cultural capital that he or she brings with him in growth. The cultural promise was an ambition to strengthen the professional cultural life, to build up the volunteer and to make culture accessible to everyone. Eight years in the field of culture and a clear goal of 1 pst. the State budget was to be used for culture, now replaced by a mantra for more diversity and freedom. What does that mean? In what direction does the new government want to take cultural life? For many years, traditional diversity work in the Ministry of Culture, in the Council of Culture and in most institutions has been well worked, and a key message was presented in 2011 on culture, inclusion and participation, where just diversity was central. Mangfold is about creating ideas, thoughts and attitudes, about participation across social and cultural divides. I guess this is also the desire of the new government when they promote their concept of diversity. But will there be more diversity of cutting in the appropriations for the free field, reducing the number of scholarships, as proposed by the government, cut in the allocation to the Council of Culture, which each year deals with between 7 000 and 8 000 applications from grassroots, applications that show that there is a diversity of ideas out there? Is there going to be more diversity of cutting the cultural school hour that gives all children the opportunity to try different cultural expressions and to learn about them? How does cutting the press support become more diverse? How is what I call a small cut to the Arbeid Movement's archives and libraries placed in the definition of diversity? Are there proposals that business and lottery take over more of the funding, showing diversity? Finally, let me comment on a comment from the Right and the Progressive Party that we discussed in this Chamber yesterday, and on the establishment of licensing arrangements for new games and the framework conditions for gambling in Norway. The majority of the parties are also asked to establish a licensing system for games in Norway in the budget. The position, which was discussed yesterday, stated that it would finance culture and humanitarian activities. A licensing system will challenge the responsible gambling policy that we have established in Norway, and it will create great uncertainty about the incomes of Norwegian Typing. It's through profits from Norwegian Typing that we're expanding football matches, ice surfaces, tennis courts and light loops, and by adding up to approve games outside this exclusive model that we have today, there's a lot of uncertainty about the financing of Norwegian Typing. Neither the sponsorship market nor the lottery market are some Sarepta's jar, and some will have to lose. Yes, there will be a new direction in cultural policy: the cultural promise will be cancelled, less funding will no longer give more diversity, and the idea that business and lottery activities will take a greater share of the funding means uncertainty and less freedom. The cultural promise was no bluff, and we'd like to go on with it. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, presented a proposal in the Chamber that the cultural promise should also be used as a basis for financing the cultural field in the future. I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e456	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e459	Cultural policy shall contribute to giving people the opportunity to participate in and experience a diverse cultural life. Now we have the greatest interest in culture, with an increase of 6.8 pst. in relation to the Cultural Budget of the Stoltenberg Government for 2013 – yes, this is a promise. Many in the Chamber will surely say: Yes – and then with the Advancement Party. This government will stimulate growth from below rather than control from above. As we saw with the former government, one has wanted to control from above. The Culture Council in Oslo wanted cultural resources to be managed around the country. Norway should also have a professional cultural life that maintains international standards. An experience of our common cultural heritage strengthens the sense of identity and belonging to the community we have in Norway. We should have knowledge of our own culture, which provides security and good conditions in Norway. This government will ensure children and young people's opportunity for good cultural experiences, which are not governed by Oslo, but governed around the country. We would like, among other things: bet in areas such as the Corps and the Culture Museum of Youth, and we will prepare the libraries for a digital everyday life. That's what the former government said, in the form of the Cultural Promise 3, but if you read the Cultural Promise 3, you can't find where it says it. You can't find the appropriations, and you can't see footprints around the municipalities. We want – and there should be no doubt – to continue to ensure free lending of literature. We want to pursue a literature policy where important objectives are to take care of Norwegian language and literature by facilitating the emergence of new authorships, and in particular accessibility for the reader. As will be known to most people in the hall, we have reversed the book law. What's important is to protect the copyright system. We want to ensure a stronger protection of the copyright system. We will provide opportunities for young talents to develop professionally, regardless of their social and economic background, through the cultural school, where cooperation with the voluntary sector should also be enhanced. Now we're going to look forward, and we're going to do it from below. We will facilitate Norwegian and international film production in Norway, and strengthen the privately funded cultural life that we see a lot of abroad, through, for example, gift-enhancing schemes and better organisation of private funds and foundations. The review of cultural appropriations to ensure sound resource use and quality is a matter of course for this government. It is also important that we draw up a plan for the rehabilitation and maintenance of national cultural institutions. We've seen in the last few years that they've stood and passed away, and it's a huge decay all over the country. Volunteering is an important arena for cooperation and has helped to create the society we have today. Willingness will grow from below and become freer from political governance, which has been an important mantra for this government. Voluntary activities shall have an independent position in society. This government will transform state support for volunteering as it progresses, and then we think that everything will not be managed by the Department or Oslo. The system of deductions for gifts to non-governmental organisations needs to be strengthened and, in particular, red tape towards non-governmental organisations needs to be reduced. If there's a response from non-governmental organisations, there's an incredible bureaucracy out there. We want to review the financial framework conditions for voluntary activities in order to ensure that red tape and politicisation are reduced, raise the level of payroll obligations and employers’ fees for non-governmental organisations and increase income opportunities, inter alia. to increase the gift allowance for voluntary activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e480	Art and culture are a fundamental part of human life. It is the basis of the community, community and national community — and an important part of international contact and community. Man is a spirit creature. Art and culture are something we need to cultivate and stimulate and encourage. The public has an important role to play. That is why the Christian People's Party has supported the increased appropriations in recent years. We think it's important. The state has a responsibility to ensure good framework conditions for cultural life. The new majority represents a cultural policy in which more sources of funding are to be provided. But at the same time, it is very important not to cut public spending, at least until you can prove that private funds are in place. Therefore, I am pleased that the whole committee writes in the setting that ‘sponsoring cultural activities shall be added to, and not replaced by, public support’. There is a special situation this year – with a government change and an additional proposition. I'm glad we got extra funds in the field of stage art. We got the artist tips back in place. It was important for the Christian People's Party. The same applies to production aid, which is continued at 2013 level. As far as artists are concerned, there is a need to look closely at their living conditions, income opportunities, working conditions and conditions. The artists are important resources for society, and we have to go into this thoroughly. The government has announced a review of the NRK. The Christian People's Party welcomes this review, and we look forward to the work to be done now. As far as the licensing system is concerned, it is important that we do not make major changes now. The budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left secured a majority in order to increase the licence for 2014. This is good, but the increase still means that the NRK does not receive full compensation for expected cost growth. The Christian People's Party assumes that the principle of compensation for wage and price growth is established pending the announcement. The NRK must be ensured predictable framework conditions. Choir music has been a central part of Norway's culture for the last 200 years. This part of the cultural heritage must be well managed and further developed. Now we have a better funding of the Norwegian Soloists' Choir and KorVest. We will also develop an overall strategy for the development of high-level cows in Norway. The Christian People's Party is especially looking forward to taking on the work of developing a professional radio choir in connection with the NRK. It's been on our block for a very long time. So over to the case of Norwegian Cultural Council. The Christian People's Party would like to contribute to greater freedom in culture. We have criticised the red-green for detail management, but the new government's proposal to give the Culture Council a mandate is, in my view, the wrong answer. We believe that the Storting should be able to lift specific areas of cultural life, if necessary. What we want to abolish is premature detailed management of the beneficiaries. It's something completely different. We're going to give cultural freedom, but at the same time we have to have the opportunity to lift the environments, the genres and the organisations that are not being heard or that do not get through the bureaucracy. It is called an active and ambitious cultural policy. The power proposed moves power out of elected bodies. It's a power that the Christian People's Party will not give. In addition, I am concerned when the government writes that the Council of Culture should assess the appropriations, including: in the light of the ‘request quantity’ in the various fields. Over a period of time, this may mean that the measures with the most applications are adjusted, while those with the least resources are losing in competition. This is one of the reasons why we are voting against the proposal for Roman Numeral Decision VII under Framework Area 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e507	A rich and varied cultural offer is necessary for a good life and for creating attractive communities. The Red-Green Government and the Center Party have given culture a tremendous boost. We have almost doubled the cultural effort in Norway since 2005, and in 2014 we would use 1 pst. of the State budget for culture. This is a bet that other countries can only dream of. The centre party went to the elections to strengthen the cultural base wall locally by further developing the cultural offerings where people live and live their lives. We need a local cultural promise! We want an uplift for the public library, the cultural schools, the local museums, the choirs, the corps and other voluntary local activities. The centre party believes that we need to cooperate more closely with non-governmental organisations for the best possible implementation of cultural policy. If a few are to be lifted, there must be cooperation as well as economics. It is with disappointment that we can today establish that the goal of using 1 pst. until culture is not followed up by the blue-blue government. The excuses are interesting to listen to, but that's exactly what we warned against. It must be disappointing for a Council of Cultural States to have to be the one to defend a cut in an expected cultural promise for the many, in order to relieve tax relief for a few. We warned against a blue-blue government under the influence of the Progress Party putting an end to the promise that the red-green government has given to cultural life, which we wanted to raise. Unfortunately, we got right. It is not very surprising for us, but it is equally disappointing that the government has chosen to propose significant cuts that affect the free field. Cuts in press support have been announced, a support that helps us to have some more diversity — and not just a simple one — among the newspapers. It is also re-prioritized and cut in respect of those receiving grants from the Culture Council. For the first time, the Progress Party shall vote in favour of the NRK licence, but a slightly lower one, but also here the market shall enter and govern. It is the market that is now to be determined – this is how this government thinks in most areas. It is obvious that this budget will be marked in cultural life in the future. Not least we think it could hit central areas where you might not have strong co-financers. The self-esteem of culture is indisputable. But one penny in is going to be multiplicity again. It is unmistakable that playing in the Corps has a self-esteem, but a May 17 train with the Corps has a value for many more – and that without us making money on it. In addition, parts of cultural life have a purely economic value. But most often they have it in symbiosis with public support, a public basis. A gift-enhancing system is great, but one risks even stronger bias between those parts of the country that do not have strong financial support players. Is this what the Right means by ‘new ideas and better 1st wishes’? The highest performers of the future are recruited from the wide and often local cultural life. For this reason, it is essential, in order to bring together both good cultural and cultural producers and cultural activities with nutritional potential, that culture be concentrated on all its diversity and breadth. Starting the reigning period of cutting in cultural school hours sounds like neither a good idea nor a good solution – but one saves, of course, money. All researchers emphasise the need for basic research. One doesn't know what can come out of it a scientist on – and not everything is useful knowledge at all – but we know that there is a potential for new knowledge in the long term to give us the key to so far unsolved puzzles. It can bring new knowledge and innovation. It's also the same with the breadth of cultural life. The Central Party wants a strong local cultural life and a strong voluntary sector. We think it's time we reinforced the ground wall. We've taken important and proper steps by building magnificent buildings for the national cultural scene. We've built an opera in Oslo, and we've decided to build a new national museum. Cities shall naturally house national buildings of such size. However, it cannot explain the rotation in the use of cultural media. It's been quite a bit crooked — if you look Oslo up against other parts of the country. We fear that it will become stronger with the proposal that is now being put to the vote. A living country and attractive community is not just about sunny plots, work opportunities and good schools. People want activities and experiences. Cultural services and activities are vital for the creation of viable communities. It is our job to contribute to this with public support, as the representative Bekkevuld so eloquently said. Starting the reigning period of cutbacks in instruments to create viable local communities also within the cultural field is a warning to local communities throughout the country. New ideas don't always give better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e535	If you were just concerned about the appropriations for culture, if you were concerned about culture getting the most money, this room should have voted for Left's alternative budget, because we had 100 million. kr more than also the red-green ones in the field of culture. I am amazed that we did not get any more votes to our alternative budget when the committee framework was adopted. We had a much bigger bet on the library, and we had a much bigger bet on the museums. As the Enger Committee concluded, the cultural promise has given much greater administration, much greater injection into already old systems and large institutions, while the bottom plank in Norwegian cultural life is still weakened. And when you talk about having a cultural promise to be to the more, and not to a few, it hasn't been that successful. We have to admit that, it sees central party politician Anne Enger. The challenge now is to build culture Norway further, but also to ensure that the foundations of Norwegian cultural life are strengthened in the future. It's library, it's museum, that's what was in Left's alternative budget. I was amazed when the government proposal came into the table, because it was very nice. There wasn't much about culture in the government statement, but what it said, I quite agreed, especially the initiative in the free field. When you go in and cut into artists' scholarships and the free field, it's not related. Then the government is supposed to be happy that they have the Left and Christian People's Party to get on the right track again. I am very pleased to have a government that finally implements the proposal that the Left has been voted down for eight years in this Chamber, namely to introduce a gift-enhancing system within cultural life as well. It's not right, as Anne Tingelstad Wøien says, that it will have a geographic impact page. If you look at who's mobilizing gifts for their exhibitions, for their museums, it's definitely not this region, but there's a lot of district museums that are good at mobilizing gifts for their exhibitions, for example. I'm in favour of changes in game policy. The fact that it should be so responsible to feed people into unlicensed, aggressive online games, I don't understand. I think this is a great potential, not just by making this system more responsible, but it will also lead to more money for volunteering and humanitarian organisations. We in the Left are also positive about the deal we have made on the press support, which is quite similar to the Left's programme formulation. It is estimated that we have also had an impact on the future, when we look at how that system is to be further developed in order to strengthen freedom of expression and the breadth of expression in Norway. I want to challenge the Council of State for volunteering, which I do not think she is responding very well to in the evening post today. It is a great job to bring down the bureaucracy of non-governmental organisations. Soria Moria I was very good at the formulations of it, but nothing happened. I understand that this is a job to do for the Ministry of Culture, but I hope that the Council of State will focus on it, because here you have to clean up the volunteer register and all sorts of rules. For all of us who run non-governmental organizations called the political party, we can say what we're spending a lot of time in our communities for the time being. It's to teach them to fill out the right forms, make sure to use reminders to make sure that the party teams also follow all the rules that we don't fully understand why we're going to have. The left has decided that we will vote in favour of the proposal which gives the government room for action in view of the Culture Council for one year. But I want to get it very clear in here: we're just doing this once, and we're just doing it because we have to secure their multi-annual projects. I expect that the government will also deal with this as a mandate from the Stortinget. We're very pleased that we got more of the popular music secured through the committee process. I believe that the government has a challenge to see the entire literature field as a whole, to see how we are going to bet on the libraries in the future and what role the literature houses should play in that context. I'm glad that we got Fredrikstad into the budget process, but we need a comprehensive literature policy that is about access to people most, and also about opportunities to enhance variation and innovation in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e556	I noticed that the Council of State in its 'big lines' speech in Bergen said very early in the speech. ‘We want resistance, criticism and direct speech.’ Since she did not get that much from the budgetary conference to the government, she will receive it. That's what I thought she was burning, both here in the hall and elsewhere. The only obvious thing I've got up to now from the cultural policy of the government is that we're going from culturallifts to cultural cuts. We reached 1 pst. of the State budget for culture. It lasted approx. a month with a new government before it was gone. Why was the 1 pst target important? Point one: Because it took up culture in the 'Premier League' from the division below and made it a heavy political field. It was the first big joint effort of the red-green – before we formed a government – to get it in place. That's the first noticeable cut of the new government, to get it out of the way. Point two: Because it has created more activity and more quality in many fields, as the Enger selection shows, even though of course there are still major challenges. That's why there's a need for new cultural vows, not more cultural cuts. I just have to charge a couple of things here. It must be unboundedly positive that culture within many departments is within the cultural promise, unless one has the understanding of culture that culture is what is at any time in the budget lines of the Ministry of Culture. But it isn't. Culture is broad and important in society. What is outside the budget lines of the Ministry of Culture should definitely be part of the cultural promise. When the representative Harberg boasted of a huge investment in the 12 million people's libraries. kr, but call billions to the Cultural Lift, there's no proportion in it. Some of the things the Christian People's Party and the Left got into the budget in the negotiations were, in my view, important. I'd particularly like to bring out artists' scholarships. But I still think that compared to the red-green budget, it is particularly unfortunate that the cultural cultime is gone, that the press support is not escalated, that a cut to the music and film fund, and that a cut in support to the Council of Culture, which can particularly affect the many organizations that are engaged in important work on reading outside the school. I'll come back to it in a private article later. They warn a great peace reform. I like that debate. I think it might be exciting and important things to pick up in delimiting bureaucracy, simplifying and giving more trust to artists outside. But a free movement that only looks at how to take control away left the liberal tradition a little hundred years ago. The most important liberal philosophers of the last century, John Rawls, Jürgen Habermas and others, are concerned that freedom cannot be anything that anyone should have at the expense of others, but must be all of their right to freedom. Therefore, freedom is also a right of the individual to the State and the market, but it is also a right of community to distribute and ensure all freedom and opportunity to unfold. It is not only to have freedom from, but also to have freedom from. The cultural promise was a big project, and it will be again in the future to create more expressions, give more artists opportunities, and give us who are cultural users access to more culture. This increases the freedom of society in this way. I would like to challenge the Right Party and the Advance Party to bring out all the hordes of people who perceive that the Cultural Promise took from artists and cultural workers in Norway freedom, or that we, who are users of culture, were deprived of our freedom through the Cultural Promise. I have good things to meet them! We in SV will now focus on, in our budgets and in our work, further developing the core wall, on which many have been involved, and setting up an artistic and artistic policy. The cultural vows I and II have not been sufficiently clear to further develop and create a good artistic and artistic policy that addresses the lives of artists, nor how we are going to meet the digitalisation, which is a major, difficult and common challenge we have. What must be at the bottom of all efforts on quality, diversity and freedom is that quality costs. Freedom, diversity and quality must not become big words that legitimize cultural cuts. There must still be growth in the cultural budget. Finally, I take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e580	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has thus taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e584	I am very pleased that the government, through negotiations with our partners in the Stortinget, the Left and the Christian People's Party, is receiving support to adopt the greatest cultural effort of the times with an increase of 656 million. kr or 6,8 pst. in relation to the Stoltenberg budget for 2013. Cultural policy touches on our everyday lives. It shall contribute to the ability of all people to experience participation in common cultural experiences. On the other hand, it is not that everyone needs to make use of the same offers. The goal of culture is not to cultivate equality, but to enrich ourselves with different impressions and angles of incidence. A cultural experience gives us insight, as well as view, regardless of the context of the experience. It asks the questions we don't ask ourselves, and it explores our society with a critical look. In short, it's through the art and culture we get to know ourselves and the world we live in. The government wants a rich cultural life that creates room for debate and criticism, and that helps to create meeting places for people across different starting points. We're going to bet on culture, but it's about something more than money in public budgets. It's about pointing out a direction, facilitating the conditions for free exercise, and making sure that the money goes where it's most needed. The overall objective is higher quality and increased attention to the content of actors. Culture shall be governed by the actors themselves, not by detailed letters of allocation, which require non-cultural objectives. The government will work for an even more independent cultural life, which helps fill our lives with meaning and content, creating reflection and debate on value issues. The government will facilitate the introduction of more private resources into cultural life. It will give greater freedom and space for action. But it also shifts power away from central counsel and selection to the individual actor himself. That is why we have proposed a gift-enhancing scheme of 10 million. kr. The scheme has been eaten against gifts for the purchase of art at national and regional art museums and the refurbishment of museum facilities. That way, the state will top private money gifts by 25 pst. If the entire scheme is used, the cultural sector could be added 50 million. kr extra in 2014. I am very pleased that a majority in the committee agrees with us on this priority. People's libraries are an important part of the cultural base wall, and perhaps the best visited cultural arena we have. In the 2014 budget, the government will stimulate public libraries to become a social meeting for professional and literary replenishment, debate and social criticism. The libraries are thresholdless, they are free and we have great faith in their potential. The government also wants to facilitate more views of free performing arts productions. That is why we are strengthening the programming scenes in Bergen Oslo and Trondheim, as well as Nordic Black Theatre. In this way, we contribute to the development of regional power centres in the field of stage art. At the same time, we want to stimulate the emergence of new Norwegian author's voices that write for the stage, and we are therefore increasing the grant to the House of Dramatics. With this budget, several free performing arts companies will also receive long-term financing of their business, precisely because the government will give priority to basic funding for such companies. In fact, we don't know enough about what the last years' cultural appropriations have resulted from new art and culture. The Enger Committee, as mentioned here also today, points out that a lot has gone with buildings and administration. The results in terms of the art itself and to what extent it reaches the audience, yes, it's actually unclear. Therefore, the government wants to spend more money on research and development in the field of the Ministry of Culture, with 17.4 million. kr for the 2014 budget. The right-wing Party government has a more offensive view of volunteering than the Stoltenberg government had. We see volunteering not just as a complement to the public, but the very sector that creates and builds a society. For voluntary work forms the patchwork of relationships that bind people together and make life meaningful. I feel there will be great opportunities in the years ahead to strengthen voluntary cultural life, and many of the exciting areas of the cultural sector across the whole country. We are willing to focus on innovation towards the new media, and I feel very strongly that debating the content of our lives is very meaningful. I've enjoyed the cultural debate in the media over the past few weeks. I hope today's debate will also contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e610	In its introduction, state councils were concerned with volunteering. There are not so many tracks to look for that attention in the additional proposition. My question goes back to what I was about in my post, and the debate we had here in the room yesterday, because I understand that a new source of funding for both sport and volunteering is that it opens up more games. Yesterday, I was corrected by the Right Chief Speaker that culture also includes sports. Then my question is to the Council of State: when the government opens up new games, will the Council of State ensure that Norwegian sport has the same distribution of income from new games as they have from Norwegian Typing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e617	It is true that the government is prepared to assess the possibilities for opening up new games, which may help to increase its revenue in the coming years, both for sport and for humanitarian and voluntary organisations. In the case of problems by opening up e.g.: for new lotteries, this is for government assessment now. We will come back in an appropriate way and inform about how we intend to ensure that this is done in a proper and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e624	Perhaps not surprisingly, but equally, the cultural sector was also affected by the government's main budgetary intervention, namely tax cuts. So the cultural school hour was sacrificed. Does the Minister see any disadvantage in reducing all children's opportunities to become acquainted with culture through the cultural school, which this year celebrates 40 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e631	The Minister of Culture is very pleased that we have an up-and-coming cultural school around the wide country. There are many good talents that have come out, on the basis that they have been to a cultural school, and that is something that government is also concerned about. I still think it's worth mentioning that it's an exaggeration to claim that less money is spent in general on the cultural sector, as we've heard the noise of over the past few weeks. So it's the greatest cultural budget of the time, there are a lot of big bets that will also benefit children and young people, and not least this government has raised the field of music with other kinds of measures, such as: with cows. So I feel reasonably confident that we will also be helping to maintain a high level of children who are interested in music, even in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e638	Public cultural appropriations have increased. It's good for the art and culture in Norway. At the same time, the Enger Committee has stated that the pressure of state cultural policy has been on building up cultural infrastructure in the form of buildings and institutions. It is good that we have got new buildings, but construction and institutions must be filled with high-quality content. For example, what does that help? to have a great opera building, if we, who will be a cultural nation, are not able to fill the house with artistic content that, to quote the committee position: ‘in line with what may be expected of an opera and ballet house at a high international level’. What should be the contribution of the Council of State to the provision of high-quality cultural infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e648	First of all, it is very important for me to stress that this government also has a great ambition to keep a high public level of the funds to be used in the years to come. That's precisely because we see that there's a need for it. With regard to the point in the Sundvolden Declaration, it is very clear that the government will implement a freedom reform of cultural policy. This reform is intended to help create a greater spread of power, a higher quality and, in particular, a broader funding of cultural life. With regard to the opera, I feel confident that it has a high level of activity and a good professional content. For me, it is equally important that cultural houses and scenes across the whole country are filled with qualitatively high targets in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e657	It was an interesting consideration here instead of the representative of the Skei Grande. She said that there would be no further bias with a gift enhancement scheme. We know that Oslo's share of the Cultural Fund in 2010 was NOK 298 per capita. More and Romesdal had $10 per capita, and then the national institutions aren't listed. So what I'm asking about now – with a new gift enhancement scheme and when it's the Council of Culture that's now going to be allowed to give priority – is whether the Council of State can guarantee that there won't be a distortion, as the representative Skei Grande did.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e664	With regard to the gift-enhancing scheme, it is a contribution to enabling us to be able to mobilise more financial resources for cultural life in the coming years. So we believe that there's a potential out there to actually trigger private capital, and it's not like there's no private capital used in the cultural field today. It's actually very much. Wherever I'm traveling in the country, it's told that you've got private gifts, both for museums, symphony orchestras, and to be part of building what's really needed. So I feel reasonably confident that there will be a good distribution also with regard to this gift enhancement scheme that is coming. This is a contribution. So where private funds are triggered, the state will go in and match it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e669	Oslo people aren't very much smarter or crazy much richer than what we can find around the country otherwise. I was actually going to ask about the Cultural Council, but it seemed like the Council of State had understood what I said, because she nodded so eagerly when I announced myself from the pulpit. So I want to ask about this with volunteering and bureaucracy. Governments can actually use Soria Moria I as a job list, because there's a lot of good there about how to bring down the bureaucracy for voluntary organisations. But it went in a really crazy direction. So something has to be done about how to organise the volunteer register. The councils can then read both the comments of the Left, Right and Christian People's Party in previous treatments and get good tips. So my question is whether the Council of State is willing to do the big job it is, to bring down the bureaucracy of non-governmental organisations and to understand how to recruit more volunteers, by focusing on what they want to work with, the reason they have signed up to the organisation: the activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e686	I am very pleased that the government and our partners actually have a slightly different ideological approach to the importance of volunteering in our society. That's why we want to do everything we can to be able to help get more out of the means that are given to volunteering, and that volunteers get a simpler set of rules to deal with. Last night, I was working with both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Health on how we can contribute to simplification. This is something that actually occupies the whole government, and as the responsible coordinator for volunteering, I want to take an initiative towards all my colleagues just to focus on how we can most effectively contribute to making volunteering easier to deal with in the years to come. Then I can confirm that I have come to understand that there is a one-time proposal for this with the Roman Numeral Decision regarding that possibility to the Council of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e695	First, I have to say that rarely have I seen a politician who the Council of State was enjoying as much as many hundreds of millions as others have worked out in its budget. And I hope she has the opportunity to enjoy the money she herself has worked for, in the same way and to rejoice for us all the next fall. I notice that both the Council of State and others here in the Chamber stress the enormous difference in thinking from the previous government to the new government. I argued in my post that I believe that the cultural promise has also contributed to more freedom for more people. I believe that there has also been a contribution to a greater lack because many cultural expressions that do not survive in the market come through and reach more. But I could imagine to right in what way the Council of State thinks the red-green cultural policy and the cultural promise have limited freedom and lack of cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e704	I can tell you that the Council of State is very happy with every penny we can manage to spend on the cultural budget, and for me a crown is a crown, whether it's SV that promotes it, or it's the Council of State and the government that promotes it. I am actually very proud of this budget – not just of the contribution the government made to the Stortinget. I am also aware that when you are in a minority government, you have to go to negotiations, and I am very happy that this has resulted in this budget being strengthened for cultural life. When it comes to the representative's questions about how I think it has restricted freedom, I see it in the form that the letters of allocation, among others. have gone to the Culture Council, where there have been attempts to impose strong demands, which I do not believe are cultural requirements, which have been made. It's a very good example of how we don't want to do it in the future. I also want to focus more on local activity and believe that there is a wide variety of offers out there, and it is the cultural base wall that needs to be strengthened in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e711	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e714	Like Bård Vegar Solhjell, I would like to start my speech by pointing out that the Red-Green government helped to raise culture in the policy elite division – a heavyweight in Norwegian policy – with a policy that has been so popular that even the Progress Party has come reluctantly after and recognised that it is important to bet on good culture, and not least on a cultural offer throughout the country. What it has contributed to is, first of all, that all the good cancers, which already did a good job, have been given the opportunity to be seen and support to flourish further. It has also contributed to a significant increase in quality by many of our institutions. And I want to say that it has helped to move Norway in a more social democratic direction, by having greater opportunities to increase personal freedom, by giving more people the opportunity to experience good culture, by giving more people the opportunity to participate in culture, and by doing so not only in the big cities, but also across the country. When I hear Svein Harberg and representatives from the government parties, it strikes me how often they look for ways to undermine this bet, talk down this massive bet, and talk down the amazing development that Norwegian cultural life has undergone in recent years. It's not just wrong, it's also very small. This is the first opportunity to discuss the direction of the new government in cultural life and take a discussion about what this government's great project is. When I listen to representatives from the government parties, it reoccurs to me that the commitment is primarily linked to ideology, rather than being a genuine commitment to Norwegian cultural life. When we read the supplementary proposition, it's like a red thread -- we see the outlines of what I'm going to call a cultural kuttism, where you first tell a cut, and then notify a review. You cut for the Culture Council, and then you announce a review of the whole role of the Culture Council. You cut the Norwegian film fund, and then you notify a film message. You cut for the NRK, then you alert a review of the NRK's position. And you suggest cutting in the press support, then notifying a review of that entire landscape. It becomes like the farmer who starves the cow and demands more and better milk. You don't need a lot of insight to understand that it's a challenging strategy. In addition, I think we see that the government parties say one thing, but carry out the grip that will lead to the opposite. They say they want more private sources of funding, but they cut the Film Fund, which is just contributing to more private funds. They say they want more diversity, but they reverse the book law, which was the red-green government's attempt to ensure diversity in the future. And changes in press support are proposed, which are currently primarily about more people leaving the scheme. And you say you want more freedom and arm's length while giving less money to the Council of Culture, just in the areas where you have a cultural judgement. This shows, first of all, that the government has an ideological approach to cultural policy rather than a genuine commitment, it shows that the grips they propose will lead to the opposite of what they actually say they want, and it shows that for the first time after eight years we see great optimism and great growth in the cultural sector, now a sudden stop and great uncertainty. I regret that, because I think Norway is now on the threshold of truly becoming a cultural nation, that, with the uncertainty that has spread, it is now seen that more people consider whether they dare to invest private funds in this, and that it is seen that more people are assessing their own future, whether it is doing private activities in the cultural sector or investing in a future in the cultural sector. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e733	The right also wants cultural policy to enable us to participate in and experience a diverse cultural life. This is what we think we'll achieve best when we stimulate growth from below, instead of steering from above. We want to spread power, we want to give as much trust as possible, and we want to invite with all the good powers. We believe that when we spread power and give trust, we give better growth conditions, and it creates ground for better solutions. The government wants to implement a freedom reform of cultural policy. It is not up to politicians to control the content of art and culture in detail. Too often and for too long there have been too strong political leaders on the content, and we want to remove that more from it. Norwegian media reality has always changed, but changes are taking place faster now, and Norwegians are using new platforms on a larger scale than in most other countries. There are significant challenges to the everyday life of content providers in adapting to the ever-changing consumption pattern, while competing between them. The government now clearly states that media policy developments are on the agenda. With this background, it is important to point out that a platform-neutral media support will become a reality in a short time. It is also clear that current aid schemes will be reviewed, revised and gradually reduced. We are concerned with diversity and a good supply of local newspapers, and we also want to reduce media dependence on state support. Therefore, it is an objective to make the scheme more accurate. It would also be logical with platform neutral thinking that the VAT regime for paper newspapers and e-newsmen is equivalent to a common VAT rate. The NRK is in a special position in the Norwegian media everyday. It will be the same in the future, but they must not use this position to weaken the basis of activity of others. There is a need for a review of the areas of activity of the NRC in order to clarify the core activities, and we look forward to a comprehensive notification of the NRC’s activities and the licensing system being stopped from alternative forms of funding. Voluntary Norway receives significant contributions from the Nordic Games. A small coin bet, a few hours or days of excited expectation, and a rare time some extra kroner in return. But most often the money finds the way to voluntary Norway. The importance of income from gambling for ideal purposes is great, while we also need to pursue a policy that takes care of gambling addicts. Therefore, it is gratifying that Norwegian Typing still presents good numbers. But it's a fact that Norwegian Typing's surplus seems to be decreasing, which challenges how we're going to provide similar incomes in the future as well. Norwegian Typing's surplus does not decrease because we suddenly have a very moderate appetite for games. Foreign actors are increasingly supplying total turnover, and this is not self-evident. It is therefore important to look at what opportunities we have to ensure that ideal actors also in the years to come have an equal amount of cake to share. One way is to address the issue of licensing arrangements for foreign gambling companies to see whether it is possible to combine social policy considerations and increase total revenues for voluntary activities under the EEA Agreement. It is also necessary to consider to a greater extent the availability of non-addictive lottery recipes, where humanitarian organisations are given priority in their implementation. Such concepts shall be approved and the decision shall be taken by the Lottery Authority. Now, when Norsk Tipping establishes the game concept of the Nabolaget, we do not know how much new money this will contribute to humanitarian organisations, but it is important to stress that the so-called 10H – a group of humanitarian organisations – will receive part of the profits for a transitional period, set at four years. A large number of other organisations outside the 10H have brought forward criticism of this distribution and 10H should probably focus on a greater level of non-discrimination after the transition period. We also know that during the previous government there were actors who tried to start similar concepts, and the Lottery Authority was positive. Currently, such concepts have been halted by over-management from the Ministry, but it is therefore Right’s policy that this will remain with supervision in the future. These are good examples from abroad, for example: the Swedish PostcodeLotteriets Kulturstiftelse has contributed over 210 million in two years. Swedish krona for different cultural purposes. The Postal CodeLottery is the third largest philanthropic activity in the world and contributes large revenues for good through a responsible lottery. Such and similar projects may be one of the ways of curbing a future decline in the surplus for distribution for ideal purposes. I don't think we can wait on old models to meet the challenges of the future in cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e756	A living cultural and sporting life is of great importance to the population and enriches our community. All people must be given the opportunity to be part of a rich and diverse cultural life. It is important to maintain important cultural measures which cannot be achieved without public support, in particular those aimed at children and young people. Large parts of cultural and sporting life, as well as leisure activities for children and young people, are run by non-governmental organisations. Voluntary activities provide good opportunities for children and young people, involvement, participation and influence, and contribute to cohesion, belonging and joy. Voluntary organisations contribute to cultural growth from below and up and should therefore be largely free of government governance. We have to let the volunteer get the freedom to organize as it suits best. In addition, voluntary organisations need to be given more time to focus on the work they want to do, time to be freed from demanding reporting work. To achieve this, we need to simplify legislation and reduce reporting and documentation requirements. Like our good community, where the pillar is that the good community is built from below, we want to give the volunteer the same opportunity. In order to do this, we have to give the volunteer a free pass on just this. This government will therefore facilitate the improvement of the conditions of volunteering and private initiative – simply to make everyday life easier for most people. In addition, we want to focus more on knowledge in the field of volunteering. I am therefore satisfied that more money is spent on research and development work in this field. It will help significantly in the future with regard to both growth and further development. This government is taking the volunteer seriously. It has for a long time, unfortunately, been built up a demanding bureaucracy that Freedom Norway has had to deal with. In addition, decisions in this field have become too centralised and politicised. I'm glad that the government has the goal of turning around. I am proud to say that this government has a focus on this field in the Sundvolden platform. There are a number of good measures that will improve the framework conditions for this important sector. This government takes a positive view of private initiatives and believes that private capital is a good and important complement to public finances. That is why I am pleased with the proposed gift-enhancing scheme of a total of 10 million. kr, which means that the State grants an addition of 25 pst. of the amount of the gift of private donations for the purchase of art to national and regional art museums and gifts of money for the repair of Norwegian museum facilities. This could mean a significant increase in grants to the national museum network around the country if the whole gift enhancement is triggered. In addition, I am pleased with the government's proposal to change the so-called key, which distributes the profits from the Norwegian Tipping AS gambling games to strengthen sports and cultural purposes outside the state budget. The change means that sport, cultural purposes and social and humanitarian purposes have a greater share of this surplus than before. At the same time, the conditions under which aid may be granted are changed so that profits are not distributed exclusively between organisations that previously had slot machines. Furthermore, social and humanitarian objectives receive additional support by allocating the entire profits of the new game of Norsk Tipping AS The Neighbourhood to organisations for these purposes. In the future, I hope it can be opened up to the creation of new non-addictive lotteries aimed at increasing income for sport, culture and social and humanitarian purposes. The government’s overall objectives of cultural policy are higher quality and increased attention to the content of the actors themselves. Individual organisations must be given the opportunity to concentrate on the good work they do, with simplified legislation. Freedom of choice shall be beneficial to individuals and society, so that volunteering can grow and attract more people, while not depriving today’s volunteers. I have great faith that the government's cultural policy will contribute to this very thing. It focuses on voluntary work rather than reporting requirements, it facilitates wider funding opportunities, and it decentralises the cultural and voluntary governance power. Voluntaryness is one of the pillars of our society and gives an incredible amount of joy to those who participate in it. Therefore, we must ensure that volunteering remains voluntary, where people can come together on their own premises, where their efforts are applauded.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e779	It's magic when a close-up person experiences young people who are creative together. It's about creation, experiences, dreams, tolerance, mastery, cooperation, community, self-confidence, play, recognition, and relationships – I could stay on longer, but this is a key chord that sends me to the core of what I want to put on the agenda: the cultural school. The government of Stoltenberg would ensure that all children were given an hour of cultural schooling this week. The situation today is that at least 30 000 children are in line for cultural school education, which is a good and closely experienced cultural offer. We politicians must have visions for the cultural effort of all age groups — children, young people, adults and the elderly. The Workers' Party has given cultural commitments to all age groups. Good local cultural arenas are essential for developing small and large talents. It often starts with the cultural school. Few, though some, have been heard after the new government launched its new direction of cultural policy. The cultural policy of the new government offers the greatest possible freedom for cultural life. One of the ways to achieve that objective is to strengthen private funding for cultural life — through, for example: gift-enhancing schemes and better organisation of private funds and foundations as set out in the Government Platform. State Secretary Knut Olav Åmås nailed in time as cultural editor of the Evening Post persistently on his reputation for private financing of cultural life, arguing that cultural life would be set freer if there were several places to seek support from. But less public money doesn't automatically trigger private sponsoring heads. And private sponsors do not give away money without clauses. Private funding for cultural life can also give less freedom. Private sources of funding will always have an escape route, if their reputation is at stake. Public support does not include such requirement specifications. With public funding, there is no doubt about who is the strongest party, namely the artist. With a private sponsor, it's the giver that's the strong party, and I think freedom is being robbed and innovation is being threatened. A new, civilly initiated gift-enhancing system must take account of these mechanisms. A gift enhancement scheme is a mixture of private and government grants — a private grant will trigger a certain percentage of State aid. I therefore hope that the new government will also see the possibility of introducing some leadership. This should include, inter alia: the beneficiary shall have the greatest possible artistic freedom. For the Workers' Party, it has always been important that art is free. A strong and free cultural life is essential for freedom of expression and for a living democracy. The artists help to develop the public vocabulary and us as societies through their cultural expressions. Finally, I would like to sum up by saying that since 2005, Norway has given an important boost to, among other things, our cultural promises. music, literature, museums, performing arts, dance and volunteering. History will now tell us what this government arranged for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e796	The red-green government presented a good cultural budget and reached the goal of 1 pst. We did that by betting on small and big things that mean a lot to people. The Labour Party follows up our message: Bread and roses – something to live from, and something to live for. Culture is joyous, gives content to life and is not least good public health. When councillor Widvey says she wants more content focus in culture than new buildings, she doesn't see the context. When the new government chooses to cut subsidies for new buildings on many of the required listed museum buildings, they also choose important parts of the necessary frameworks to provide good cultural content. I want to present the grant to the Whaling Museum in Sandefjord as one of the projects now stopped. The museum preserves national values from a time that was important for Westfold and Norway, and is the only special museum in Europe. The new building was intrusive, and the plans were ready for a fissure layer. I expect that right-wing rapporteur Gleditsch in Sandefjord does not find much joy in that news and now has to find other solutions for the development. This is an example of short-term policy, which is damaging to culture, and unfortunately more investment of this kind has been cut by the current government. There is not much help in focusing on the contents of the shell if it is not usable. The second cut I want to mention is the contribution to the Arbeid Movement's archive and library, Arbark, of $2 million. kr – not large sum, with quite significant amount. The labour movement archive is the largest private archive institution we have in Norway. It provides insight into Norwegian political history. The archives on the right are managed by the National Archives and covered by 100 p.m., while Arbark is also financed by contributions from member organisations, and the allocation has increased in line with the National Archives. The grant Arbark receives covers about 40 pst. the costs incurred by the archives. One can only wonder if the cut will come because this is the left-hand archive. 7 000 shelving meters of documents, 1.5 million pictures and 137 000 books say something about the amount we're talking about. Now it has to be cut into the grant that is passed on to the regional archive institutions, which we deeply regret. Our responsibility is to take care of the past in the future under good conditions. Cut also affects the cultural nesting package — on the grounds that there is a mechanism that intervenes in the responsibilities of the employer to facilitate a good working environment. Vestfold was the source of the Nistepaket, with the Culture of LabourSeilas, AKS. Businesses in Westfold thus experience art and culture as a natural part of everyday life. This is operated by the Cultural Department of the County Council, a county municipality governed by the Right. They have obviously realized that this is important. Many companies are involved, and recently we could see a company tour that was very pleased with the offer – which had a positive impact on the working environment – and she would not have been there. Without assistance from the county council, the offer would not be there. Nor would it be possible for the Ninepakket to continue in the same way without a drag help from the state. Clearly, the working environment and culture should not be mixed for this government, while for the Workers' Party things are linked. Rather, we want to use the good examples to benefit everyone, and we want to create good working environments for everyone in Norway, with the cultural nesting package.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e813	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e817	It's great to be able to participate in a cultural debate in Stortinget, and I'll start my post with an event that's both culture, sport and great intellectual achievement in one and the same loss, namely chess-OL, which goes off the stack in Tromsø in August 2014. There are great expectations associated with this event, especially after the amazing performance of Magnus Carlsen in the Chess World Cup in India recently. I'm glad that both the proposition and the committee's comment mention next year's event in Tromsø in very positive order. I read in Dagbladet yesterday that politicians who have intended to be respected as whole people must start flashing their musical preferences – and they should probably be cool. Now I don't know if Dagbladet will like anything about my 1970s and 1980s experiences with jazz, classical music and Latin American music, but I'm taking the chance to talk about something that's close to my heart, namely choir. It was one of the first things I started working with when I entered the Stortinget in 2005. The red-green cultural fraction, along with the department, made a run to lift the cor field, and fresh money was granted both to a probationary system and to five professional choirs in four cities in four regions – professional in the sense that the choirs have achieved high artistic quality and are associated with singers who live entirely or partly from the song. All the relevant choirs live in cities where singing can be trained at university and college level, and which also have strong environments for traded vocal forms – that is, this choir that can offer pay or fees with good and predictable support to choir members who have the song as a living bread. The five choirs: the Norwegian Solo, Nordic Voices, Kor West, Trondheim Voices and Vokal Nord, have almost 12 million combined. kr in State aid for 2013. There's money that's earmarked for these choirs by the red-green government. That's why I was quite surprised when it was recently produced as if the couple of extra million that the government put in to the Solistkoret and Kor West were a shelling lift for professional choirs. Yes, it is great that extra money has been found for the two very good cows, but I am a little surprised that the money had to be taken from a pot that would go to a semi-professional choir. And it's a little sad that three of the five choirs that have been part of the professionalization system are not lifted by the blue-blue government. The five choirs are very wide fantasizing; they are driving vocal innovation in art music, jazz, folk music and joik, to mention some singers. So I really hope that the government sees this diversity and eventually finds room for an increase also for these choirs in the budget. And then I hope you're clean enough to say what it is: it was the red-green government that first recognized the vocal field, and that gave more money to where in general – and to the best choirs in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e826	The president has previously announced that the next speaker is Line Henriette Heimdal. Now the situation is that the representative Line Henriette Hemdal cannot have the floor under a case where she will preside afterwards. That is why the word goes on to Henrik Asheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e829	In recent years, it has been an important and quite broad political objective to provide adequate childcare facilities. There has been a common political project that has made many children go to kindergarten now. That's good. I even have many friends who, after high school, used the chance to work a year in kindergarten, who are very busy with it and who left out for many of the more childish interests they have. I myself have worked at the SFO – it's right under another committee – and it was quite fun to get paid to play deathball. But it's true that because we've focused on just getting enough kindergartens, there's a lot of evidence that we haven't gotten enough quality into kindergartens. EPSI Norway has shown that Norwegian parents are the parents of the Nordic countries who are least satisfied with the kindergarten offer, and pediatrician Ratiob Lekhal said to the Class struggle on 22 November that this may be related to having too much focus on getting enough kindergarten places, rather than getting quality into the kindergarten. There is very much we can do politically to ensure that this gets better, and the new government has warned that this will be the major field of initiative of the Right Party government – both to increase the competence of those working in kindergartens, by providing more of the unskilled, like my friends, an update and an education that enables them to work in kindergartens, and to bet on childcare, which means that those who are responsible for kindergartens really get the skills they need. Working in kindergarten is not just something you do in a year off or not by taking military education, but it's a subject, and it's a subject we're going to respect. I am very happy that we have got a new government that increases the bet on this by 50 million. kr from 2013 to 2014. And if we're going to get the quality of kindergarten, we have to make sure that those who work in kindergarten get the respect they deserve – not just as workers who are going to take care of children at a time when their parents are at work, but this also has to be seen in the education cycle; it has to be seen as part of the basic beginning of what's going to be 13 years of school later. I am very pleased that we have a broad political agreement to bet on children having kindergartens, but I am also very happy to have a government that is now focusing on the content of kindergartens, and not just on the number of places.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e844	What is Monty Python used to say in its transitions: 'And now for something completely different!' Back to the cultural budget: In the cultural budget that is now agreed, there will be a cut of 14.5 million. kr in transfers to the Council of Culture, entry 74, funds that go to a number of important organisations that do an incredibly important work around Norway. I must say that it is a cut that is significant in relation to the red-green budget. The leader of the Cultural Council, Yngve Lattholm, has warned that he believes it must have material consequences. I am particularly concerned about the impact on organisations and institutions that are doing important reading and language training work in Norway. There are organizations that the Association!les and Reader are looking for a book, and there are a number of others. They do important work outside the school, providing people with an offer of reading and offering books that hit people. It may be blind and faint, many have Norwegian as a second language, and there are many children and young people. If there's something we have children in school that knows, it's that yes, the school and the teachers are decisive for the reading skills. But kids have to read a lot outside the school, it's not possible to become a good reader just through the school. One would believe, when one hears all the beautiful words here about volunteering and that there must be more than state, that just that kind of work would be recognized as unfathomably important in order to strengthen language skills and make sure that we can further strengthen reading skills in Norway. In the light of that, I have made a proposal on behalf of SV earlier today that we should ensure the activity of the type of organisations and strengthen the additional ones in the years to come. They're doing an invaluable job. I hope SV will be able to support it in voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e853	The cultural promise shall obviously only be measured in money. It's just as if money is equal to diversity – the money becomes the goal itself. When it's like that, it's going to be very, very technical. Therefore, seven different departments and one directorate must be vacuumed to scrape this together to become 1 pst. by the State budget. When it's the amount of money that's going to be central, and not what the money's going to be used for, it's going to be a little bit hidden from me. I heard the representative Aasrud say that the 1 pst goal has been replaced by a mantra on «diversity and freedom». Well, I'd rather focus on a measure of diversity and freedom than we're going to stand and dream away in the money shower and count the crowns, because I don't think that's the way to do it. When the number is the goal, we will finally have – if you're going to play with it a little bit – a somewhat exciting situation. It's really just to find 100 good purposes, and then we're done budgeting, because 100 times 1 is 100, and then we have 100 pst. by the budget in Objectives. So I also wonder a little bit when it's always talking about how much it's being cut. Because it's now time for the government budget to increase by 5.5 pst next year. in Norway. The budget for culture is increasing by 6.8 pst. It's a little over 20 pst. more increase, so that's not the way that several of the people who have been up here paint, that there's as bad a thing as you get the impression. That's a pretty rough increase for a lot of people. I also heard the representative Solhjell admit that the cultural promise is not sufficient as it has been until now. At the same time, he said that he is looking forward to a reform of freedom. That's where we agree. I think that is where there is an ideological division, and the representative was also involved – freedom from and freedom from. But cultural life is frustrated by the leaders themselves, they are frustrated by the mood programmes that need to be delivered, and the content production to be managed, and at least they want ‘freedom from’. When you're against or skeptical about funding other than the state budget and drugs and don't want to relax on political leadership, I think it might seem that it's control itself that's the goal. Right wants to give more freedom. We want to look at other incomes. I heard the representative Arild Grande think it was not the commitment to culture, but the ideology that governs Right thinking. Well, I don't think the exposure is measured in cash flow -- cash flow without control, cash flow without analysis of effect, as the Enger committee points to. It's not talking down, it's pointing to the facts. So I hear more people say that if you give more public money, it goes with more private ones, by itself pretty much. We don't think that's the way we think it's the other way around. That is why we want to introduce the gift-enhancing scheme. And sometimes it might actually be a good idea to shake off some old goods and think ideologically, once you've stabilized in management mode.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e868	Arild Grande of the Workers' Party believed that he had the power to define «real-born involvement» within the culture. I think the attitude and the freedom is quite great. That means that the rest of us don't have the marriage commitment that this Grande has. I'm sorry. But I think the statement is strong. Is it only the Workers' Party that has the power of definition of the ‘carnate’ and is it the real-born who is to be governed from Oslo? That's the question from me. When you know that with the Advance Party and the Right in government, the cultural budget increases by 6.8 pst. From last year, I guess there's no fury about the culture. That means that this government wants culture. And this percentage that Grande's always referring to, you have to look for a long time to find. I assume there's VAT compensation, there's maintenance at the Opera, there's maintenance at the National Theatre, but there's not much culture in the municipalities for it, when you spread it like that. It's important that the money gets where they're going. Then it is believed that Norsk Tipping, who has monopoly, has the best games, the least addictive. But that the gambling addicts have thoughts about the fact that there's still a drag in best time, that you have big ads, big advertising posters, big solutions and big prizes, it ignores the Workers' Party, because this is the monopoly that you have faith in. We want to look at the licensing system, as they have done in Denmark. We want to see that we can get more money for volunteering, more for sports, and that must be a win-win when we can introduce more games that are not addictive but at the same time generate money for sports. Our community consists of large and small communities. Sport and physical activity have a high self-esteem and provide better physical and mental health. Why don't we do everything we can to get money for this? The government will provide good conditions for sport and facilitate the participation of anyone who wants it – and I will repeat it, everyone who wants it – in physical activity. Here the previous government got criticism. The sport of the peak and latitude shall operate in an interaction where both complement each other in order to make sport stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e881	I feel the need to comment on some of the things that have been said in the debate. The government doesn't talk down the huge effort on culture. That must be a big misunderstanding. We have contributed to the great effort. 6.8 pst. The increase from last year to this year is the greatest investment in the cultural budget, and I think it is incredibly important that we keep the concepts in order. When I got into the government offices, I wondered very much what this 1 pst contained. It didn't take long to find that it's actually not just in the Ministry of Culture's budget. There are seven other departments, almost 700 million. kr is located in other departments. I was actually wondering a little bit what are the criteria for defining yourself below what's related to the cultural promise. I can calm down that in the case of the 700 million. kr, is in fact the most significant one there also in the next year's budget, with this government. It's e.g. Archaeological Museum, it may be in connection with operating expenses for the Church Department, it is Eidsvollsbygden, it is Norwegian Travel Life Museum, it is Sami culture, etc., etc. I then wondered: is it these repriorities or some of these changes or cuts that this government has made, which would in some way correspond to not having a focus on this? I've been thinking that if I were to be part of this exercise, maybe I could also find something that could be defined under the cultural promise and get into 1 pst. For example, I could find different types of cultural memories that could be defined in, or the university museums, or the Defence Music, or the Defence Museums or the Coastal Culture. Then we would get up to hundreds of millions. But I've tried to say in this debate that for us it's not an end in itself to have a one-sided focus on that it's 1 pst. to go to cultural services. It's actually the substance. And I hope that in the time to come, we can actually focus on content and higher quality and how to ensure that we have good deals in the whole country. I hope that will be the discussion in the years to come. So just a brief comment on this with choirs. We have invested in the Norwegian Solo and Kor West. They have now become fixed posts on the state budget, and we have strengthened the appropriations strongly. And we've added 2 million. SEK to amateur choirs throughout the country and also 1.5 million. kr to Kraftak for song. We're actually very concerned that we're going to be able to make a development around the country, and that's something we're going to focus on in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e892	The field of culture is a wide field, and in such a debate there are many things that you might want to comment on. I'll take some of them in this post. First, to the representative Becquerad, who has announced that it is a Roman decision he will not take part in. Now I hear that his reason is cleared up, for Bekkevold's main reason for not being on this was what it could lead over time to. Now it is clear in the supplementary proposition, in the comments from the government parties, and has been stated several times from the pulpit here today, that this is the case in 2014. This is not a Rome number decision that applies over time, but it applies in 2014, and in particular in order to secure the multiannual projects. I am sure that Mr. Bekkervold will think about it again. So I must have a comment on these statements about cut or not cut. Firstly, I think that the representative Solhjell almost has to explain how an increase of 6.8 pst, i.e. more than the budget for the rest, can be referred to as cut. It could be that it has something to do with reality, that you think something you've suggested is a reality, and that when it doesn't, it can be referred to as cut. But the reality is a solid increase in this field and this sector, and then it's nice to talk about it as cut. Then I also see that they are struggling with the rhetoric when they talk about the money of others that we are cheering on. Yes, it's very much in common, and that's good. It's a little strange that they're sabulating down the budget that's lying there, while they're saying that most of the things they've found themselves. There could be one has to make some choices here. It may also have to be when both the Workers' Party and the Center use the rhetoric that there have been cuts or re-priorities in the cultural budget to give tax relief, preferably to those who have the most from before. So now one has spent that money on all of the other budget debates, so it's starting to turn into a terrible amount of taxpayers' money, far beyond what's in the current draft budget. So one cannot take all the money in all the budget areas and say that it is tax havens. They've been used up before. These are re-priorities that strengthen this sector, and we dare to give priority where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e905	The President has been made aware of the fact that there is a call for voting in a few storeys. I think it must be the technology that plays us a kiss in pre-Christmas. So it should not be voted on now – to those who have come in, and had to believe it. Then the next speaker is the representative, Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e910	I want to start by commenting on the last article, from the representative Harberg. It may be a bit annoying and annoying that one is being reminded of the large tax cuts that have been given, but it is not that they have been used up in other debates. The estimate of such a size that we've seen from this government, I'm going to claim to frame the entire total budget and what money you have to distribute. But that's not what I was going to talk about. The cultural debate is important – and very important for the Labour Party. It can also be seen from the list of speakers in the debate today. One of the classic debates we've had here in the last few years is the freedom debate. The Minister for Culture's answer to the representative, Solhjell, to what she thought was red-green demarcations, thought I was interesting. Because it was said that the red-green government had made demands in letters of assignment that were not culturally professional. Yes, just - there are no detailed requirements, as we are often met from the right. But what has been put in by premisses, which I also think were quite a cross-political one about last year when we were dealing with the Cultural Council Act, was the criterion of, among other things. the spread of genres and the geographical distribution of funds. And what I mean is an important part of a cultural policy that's going to reach the whole country. A mantra we have often had in this room, at least from the Workers' Party's side, is that we both believe and know and think that culture is being created throughout the country. Unfortunately, we have an example of the fact that the big cities still function as an outlet for too much cultural resources. And if one were to be busy with what also the representative Eidem Løvaas is busy with, spreading power, it's a little in contrast to the argument from the government party when it's their view of what's to rule, and not. I was in the U.N. in the fall and got to meet some of the artists who received scholarships under OCA in New York, and one thing they said, was that it was very fast done, having been a few weeks in the United States, to come up with how well one had it home. A great many of their colleagues envy them so that they came from a country that prioritises culture – and that is also about money – and that prioritises facilitating artists to survive in a creative phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e919	The Solberg government put forward an additional proposition where more money was available, and after negotiating with the government's support players in the Stortinget, it was found that there was even more money at your disposal. So anyway, it's a less appropriation for culture from the Solberg government than the Stoltenberg government put forward. I understand that the Minister of Culture had some bad days, because she said she was happy for every penny she could use for culture. It could not be much to rejoice with the Minister of Culture after having been through the budgetary negotiations. The representative, Harberg, is calling the "Culturallift" because money has been found in other budgets. That's a pretty interesting reasoning. We see in many contexts that we need more cross-cutting bets, and if that's the way money is allocated in budgets other than what's in the trade budget, it's not going to be able to count, and then there's going to be some interesting debates in this room in the future. I am delighted to hear the Minister of Culture report, for example. in the field of voluntary activities, for which voluntary activities are carried out in very many areas other than in the cultural sector. So it's true that we're not in the goal of building up the cultural field. That's why we want the Cultural Promise III, where we were going to look at some of the challenges we saw that the Enger Committee pointed to. But if there's something that's a bluff, it's the bet on the public library that's being presented. It's financed by spending $6 million. NOK, which would otherwise have been used in a library – SEK 4 million. kr from the cultural niche package and 2 mill. kr from the Labour Movement archive – so there is not much to track. Then I was not reassured by the answer the Minister of Culture gave me when I asked about the changes that are now going to come about in game policy. I understand that it is the Lottery Authority that will decide below which games will be allowed to be started. We see that yesterday's vote pointed to the Postal Code lottery, which was supposed to provide funds for culture and humanitarian organisations. There will be no money for sport if the Minister of Culture does not go in and demand the organisations that are now getting new lottery tickets. I'm glad the Minister of Culture said she would come back to that matter. I look forward to discussing this in Stortinget. This is too important for Norwegian sport to have a thorough debate on the changes that are now being made, both through the treatment we had yesterday and the treatment we have today. I expect the Minister of Culture to come back to Stortinget to explain the proposals she wants to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e935	In my main post, I was into the artists' living conditions and the need to get into this thoroughly. Artists are an important resource for society, and we must have a review of artists' living conditions and income opportunities, working conditions and the general conditions. In addition, I would like to point to the acting and dancing alliance, which started in the autumn of 2012. The alliance is important in order to improve the conditions for temporary staff dancers and actors. We know that the alliance is defined as a pilot project in 2015, but it is important that this work can be continued, and perhaps also further developed. A thorough assessment is needed of how best to ensure the conditions for temporary dancers and actors. So for crucifixion. That's an explicit goal for the new government to bet on choirs. There is something Christian People's Party supports, and we hope that we can finally get things moving. But it's kind of funny that it's now made a sense that there's already a focus on choir, because it's an exaggeration. Ensemble support, managed by the Culture Council, has received a significant cut, and this may unfortunately affect a number of choirs directly. Activity support has increased, but here I believe that the Council of State has noticed a unanimous comitology comment asking for an evaluation of this scheme. Then two choirs got their own post. And that's good, we're supporting it, but some big stakes aren't. I am particularly concerned that the part of the ensemble support that goes to choirs should continue to be allocated on the basis of the same criteria as before, and that the appropriations here are increased. Today, the activity support goes to amateur choirs. The ensemble support shall be awarded to high-level choirs, and then have a number of permanent posts in the State budget. We have to see this in context. Otherwise, the Christian People's Party fully agrees with the approach made to support schemes for semi-professionals. As mentioned in my main post, the Christian People's Party will also start developing a new professional radio choir in connection with the NRK. I look forward to that work. This is also mentioned in the committee position. But let me end by stressing: the Christian People's Party is pleased that a strategy for this is now to be worked on, and here we in the Christian People's Party are to be constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e952	First, I would like to say that it is important that there is money on the cultural budget. I actually mean that I have reason to say something about it, because I have lived as a professional artist in much of my adult life. It was so important that there came a few dollars, which ended up at Senja, and which enabled me and my musicians to feed us as musicians. I'm very happy about that. Then it has been important also for my part of the country to get a boost for the institutions. I was in charge of one of the biggest festivals in Norway, the party games in North Norway. I got money both from the state and through cooperation with the business community. I'm going to trust the Storting one thing: there were actually bonds on both teams. So if someone goes around and thinks that business money or private money means being free and francs, they should go out of this hall and out into the cold winter day and clear up the thought a little bit, for it's not like that. But it was actually all right with the leaders that the party games in North Norway got. I had excellent cooperation both with the Ministry of Culture under various governments and with the excellent sponsors with whom I worked as a party game director. I have a pragmatic and good relationship with the business community. But it's a saying that it's not something like a free lunch, and no one has to be naive about the money that comes from businesses and business. A gift enhancement scheme can be quite straightforward if it is limited and very targeted – I also have a pragmatic relationship to it – but I will warn against such a scheme if it begins to escalate and become widely established. There's two problems with that. First of all, such a system will primarily benefit those parts of the country where there is plenty of access to capital-intensive environments. We know that's a little bit oddly distributed. Then there is something strange about the fact that well-situated actors in our society are going to decide where Norway is going to spend the cultural money – that is, in what direction they are going to go. If that kind of degenerate, I really must say I'm meant to be. The only thing I can think of that is free treatment in health care, which the government is also doing. It's not good either. So to conclude, yes to cooperation with business – but the bulk of the money for cultural life must come from the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e967	I note that the Right hassles over the fact that the cultural promise is also cross-ministerial, and that there is a basis for cooperation. I record that within a range of other areas, including The field of justice – which I am now responsible for – boasts of cross-ministerial cooperation, but within culture it is clearly not important enough for one to bring it up as something positive. The Minister of Culture says she is surprised at the arrangements on the Cultural Promise. I'm surprised she's surprised. The cultural promise has been defined since 2005. The Minister for Culture says, among other things: that the music and cultural memory of the defence, and a little bit like that, can be found within the cultural promise. Well, it's just our new bets from the other departments that have come within the cultural promise, it hasn't been system things that already have doctors in the departments that have come in. The defence's music and cultural memory are not part of the cultural promise. To the extent that the Minister of Culture was not aware of it, the entire budget of the Ministry of Culture is not part of the cultural promise either. There is a lot in the Ministry of Culture that is not part of the Cultural Promise. Among other things, the Opera and the National Museum were built outside the Cultural Promise. So I would also like to tell the new government that it is very nice to have been allowed to contribute to their budget, for never in the world if the new government would be able to provide this budget if it was not for the previous government's work over eight years. I have noticed many rhetorical curvatures around this reduction of 0.25 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. But we know what that means. Here's the naked truth: the Minister of Culture lost $0.25 billion. kr in the budgetary conference. Blue-blue cultural policy is a practice of neo-talence. More freedom means less money. More quality means less training for the cultural craft in which you are to be happy. It seems that the blue-blue do not understand what triggers quality. No one wakes up one morning and is the best film director in the country. There is no one who suddenly one day makes Max Manus or Kon-Tiki without having gone a long and thorough way. Then the Minister of Culture may say that it is not a public responsibility to arrange for artists to try and fail before they finally succeed, but at the same time she says that it is not a public ambition to facilitate high-quality art and culture. Another side of this, which is quite dangerous, is that one then risks operating with a narrow quality concept: a quality operation that is only here and now, one that is not open to surprises – because at regular intervals, artists show up to expand our understanding and our cultural horizons and blow up all the boundaries of what is art of high quality. It's not always that our time recognizes this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e984	It is true that this is a cultural budget with more money than it has been in the past. But what is interesting when I listen to the Minister of Culture is the argument that she had to cut off from the budget of the previous government. What would have been natural if it were a red-green budget, was that when you took three billion extra oil money, the cultural budget would increase. That's what was the whole point of the cultural promise; that if the pensions and expenses of hospitals increased, culture would get more. This has given us a historic boost. What I'm looking at today's pulpit is a show in subversive argument because you've just lost. I actually don't think it's that bad -- I really don't think the Minister of Culture wants to cut, I think she just lost. Then there are some of the arguments you use that I think are provocative. One is that she's annoyed that there are other things that are also part of the cultural promise. Yesterday the Stortinget decided on an external budget. There we had to cut money to NORLA, to send Norwegian authors abroad, and to Music Norway – a very important part of the cultural promise that the Minister of Culture should really be happy about, not be annoyed about. Culture School Time: We believe that participating in cultural life is important for all children and young people regardless of how much money their parents have. I think that's very important. The Minister of Culture should therefore be proud that the Ministry of Education's budget has received money for culture. What about the Right, who says that there is an argument against increased cultural budgets that there is less sponsorship – as if there is more money from the private if you cut the cultural budget – or Ib Thomsen, who says that too much is run by Oslo and that there is an argument to cut the Cultural Council, or the argument to cut the press support because you get more independent press, or that the quality of Norwegian film increases because there is less money? But the crown of the work comes when the freedom discussion is brought up. 'Cause where's that cut? Which parts of cultural life are going to notice the most? It is the free cultural life – contrary to what is stated in the government statement. This has also been explained that the reason you cut here was that it was the most gentle cut. I know that with regard to the money going to festivals, to folk music groups and to the free cultural life all over Norway, it's not the most gentle cut. It's the cut that's going to hit everybody, most of all. But it's most gentle for the politicians, because no one is out in the streets protesting at it, and no one is losing their job tomorrow. Secondly, the Government of the Council of Culture is responsible for this. You might have insisted that you were honest. The Minister of Culture has lost the budget fight. The rest is substantiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1001	I can greet the representatives of the Labour Party and say that this government is honest. There has been an interesting debate, where it may seem that culture has almost ceased and closed down by the majority of population, which it is not. I might have to remind you once again that you're raising the cultural budget by 6.8 pst. in relation to the Stoltenberg Government. In addition, there is no game of numbers. This government is concerned about having targeted, effective measures. We also want to figure out if what we put in resources actually works. It's important for this government. It's not a goal in itself to spend the most money if you don't know if it hits. It has been mentioned several times that funds have been collected from seven different departments to achieve one percent. It is well possible that something can be called culture, but in our concepts it may belong to more areas than the culture itself. I think with culture, people think of executive culture, not necessarily buildings and maintenance. The Labour Party representative Grande thought that for the government parties, ideology was in a way more important than culture itself. Yes, this government has a different ideology, we have a different direction; if not there was no reason for a change of government. We have confidence in volunteering, and we have confidence in cultural life. We record that society has changed, the cultural sector has changed, and the public has failed. Then we have to do something to help the culture. We have a different direction. We do not want the same politicisation as the previous government that would govern culture in detail. This government has confidence in cultural life. After this debate, perhaps the position and proposals of the old government parties are not in line with the debate, so I wonder a little about one thing: where are all the comprehensive proposals, the comprehensive proposals in as many areas as it seems to be going wrong? I thank you for a debate that has been exciting and interesting. I look forward to further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1016	Let me first congratulate the Minister of Culture on one of Norway's most exciting jobs. I wish her a welcome to the field. That she's so new that she hasn't got the debate on what one percent should contain, and the definitions that have been crystal clear in many documents, I think we'll be forgiven. It'll be a good time to get into it. The serious thing is not the level of the cultural budget. The level of the cultural budget is high thanks to the proposal made by Hadia Tajik and the government. You can go on with it even with a big cut. But we have a Minister of Culture and a majority who are now taking away what was the driving force for the large increases, namely that the cultural field was given a concrete, concrete objective like other sectors: that's what one percent is. We said that culture, in the same way as NTP, the road sector, defence plans or psychiatry plans, should be taken seriously in terms of money. This now actively removes the government. On the top and bottom of the budget setting, it says: ‘The majority believe that one-sided attention around the size of the budget can divert attention away from other important objectives of cultural policy’. This will be a tool for the Minister of Finance when the Minister of Culture comes to the Budget Conference and demands more money. So to this with freedom. What is the lack of freedom in cultural life? It is all the artists and cultural workers who experience not being able to realize their projects because of lack of money. It is the minority actor who feels that Norwegian theatres are as dazzling white as a Norwegian small town in the 1950s. It is disabled people who do not have access to cultural experiences, because universal design is not yet the case. The government is running the newline. It is money that is largely freedom. Double the cultural budget and allocation in the cultural field is the greatest freedom reform we've ever had. It gives many more artists the freedom to carry out their projects completely without political or market governance. There is talk of decentralisation, but the support schemes that others than the department distribute – whether it is the Film Foundation or the Council of Culture. You're talking about more private money, but when, for example, you're talking about more private money. says that it's okay that fewer films are made because you cut in the movie support, there's also less private investment in movies, and there's less ticket revenue for movies. The slogan is perfect when you say that you need to decentralize and increase freedom, and you remove an artistic support system for choirs, but you decide which two choirs are to be supported! It is good that the Minister of Culture now has to go up to the pulpit and tell what artistic judgements underpinning the support of KorVest and the Norwegian Soloistkor. Finally, from the pulpit of the Stortinge, you can't speak new words, here you have to do with facts. The Minister for Culture refers to the letter of award to the Council of Culture. There are these indications. Here is the letter of award, and I ask the Minister of Culture, who is now given the floor, to refer to where in the letter of award it says about the content of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1034	I thank you for a good debate. I know there's a lot of commitment, and that's very good. As I said in my post today, the government is very much in order to get constructive criticism. It also helps shape good cultural policy in the years to come. I noticed that the representative, Mr Bekkeword, said that the aid for the ensemble would be weakened in this year's draft budget. That's not right. On page 59 of the configuration, priority should be given to the ensemble support. I would also like to stress that the government is assessing the further investment in the cor field. What form the future bet on the field will give us the opportunity to come back to. I would also like to mention that in the case of a book agreement – there was a small comment on that earlier – I would like to stress that the book agreement will ensure a stronger competition, and not least ensure the 20 pst. by the publishers who are free operators. Because it doesn't do the book law, and that law also prevents innovation, as this government sees it. So a comment on this with the use of private money: I understand that it's the public money that's essential when we're discussing culture. It will also apply to this government. We're still going to fight to have a high level of public consumption in the years to come. Our draft budget is a glistening proof of this. But I think it is also very important to stress – as I said in my post – that there is actually a significant and large contribution among private actors in different ways; not only through sponsorship, as I notice the Workers' Party mentions when they talk about private money, but also through gifts. For private money except sponsorship comes in fact without any bonds. It is not a matter of having any bindings in that respect. The problem so far, I believe, has been that many of the public money used has incredibly many leads. We're thinking new, we're willing to open up that we're also getting a stronger private engagement in the years to come, and therefore this gift enhancement scheme. Then I just have to say that with regard to this one percent, it is still the focus of the Workers' Party that the amount is very important. I have not said that it is negative that other departments actually give priority to culture. That's what this government is doing, and that's what we're really excited about, and we're going to do in the years to come. But what I've said is that I understand that when you calculate to get to this one percent, you vacuum more or less the other departments in order to be able to get to the goal. I could also do that exercise if that was the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1051	The President will remind the Assembly that we are interrupting this meeting at noon. 11.30 and put it back to 15.30, regardless of whether this first part of the debate is complete or not. The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has had the word twice before and thus gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1056	It was the representative of Stordalen who made me take the floor. In his post, he says that prioritisation of cultural construction is not something to spend money on. I think that everyone who now has thoughts of getting appropriations for cultural buildings should notice. But he also says to just give money to the culture that works. When is culture working? I think that's an interesting question to get an answer to. The Stordalen also says that there is not so much difference between the government parties and the opposition, and that there are no suggestions here in the hall that testify about it. I must then be allowed to remind the representative of the Stordalen that it is the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government that underpin our budgetary work here in the Stortinget, and that is what we think would have been a better budget. I also hear the Minister of Culture say that there should be no leads on the private money. It's going to be interesting to see how it's going to be put into life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1065	Now I've heard more representatives from both the position and the opposition talk about how much money has been allocated to the state budget for cultural purposes, and more have also called for diversity. I think we've become a poor nation about the only expression of diversity is the entries on the state budget. But if I'm to be completely honest, I want more engineers than artists. Although art on the wall at the hospital when I get there, certainly enriches me, someone still has to build that wall and pay for me to be there. It is not done by having subsidised industries, it is done through industries that live on their own revenues and that through tax finance the welfare country. But when you first talk about diversity, I want to say something about NRK. The NRK has twice as many employees as its five direct competitors combined. The NRK has an owner that limits the premises for the action of its competitors, and with its 5 billion. license fees are in a completely different financial situation from the privately owned, competitive media. Local or regional news media have never been able to compete with the privileges of Norwegian press policy. The question is whether these privileges have not weakened local news production much more than the press support has ever been able to balance up. A discussion of media policy without the NRK in the equation gives a distorted picture of the media situation in Norway. In addition, someone seems to think that the Norwegian people would have been completely without good editorial news if support for paper production or VAT exemptions disappeared. But if you don't have 5 billion. kr to the public broadcaster is able to provide good editorial news in a country with 5 million inhabitants, who can provide it? State governance of broadcasting is the largest form of state intervention in the media market. For this reason, the role of the NRK as a public broadcaster is the most important media policy debate and perhaps also cultural policy debate – not press support, not VAT. And when the licensors have already paid for the production, should the archives of the NRK be freely available for reuse? Should the NRK get stronger restrictions, so that they can't buy the same series that commercial channels have to spend hard-earned money on? Should we lay a clear framework for the NRK’s online activities and demand – as Olav Anders Oberebø did at evening post.no yesterday – that the NRK’s web editor should expand the public with something as simple as linking to sources and other websites instead of producing all content himself? We also know that when an institution with 5 billion kr free revenues are part of potentially commercially interesting projects that the traffic portal there.no withdraws from other actors. Few can compete with $5. kr i jumped. What does it do with diversity? With this, I want to emphasise that culture and diversity are not the same as the budget appropriations, and not least that appropriations can actually be a barrier to diversity. I think the government's priorities in this way are good, but they could be tougher.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1084	It must only be within the cultural field that a Council of State can go up to the pulpit and say that my budget is not so important. It is not a Minister of Justice who would say that, no Minister of Transport would say it, no Minister of Research would say it. I feel this fear of public funding as an expression of distrust -- distrust of cultural life, mistrust of business. It's distrust of cultural life because it's an expression that the blue-blue government believes that public funds make cultural life less creative, less free, less racist. It is mistrust of business because it shows that the blue-blue government believes that business will not give money or cooperate unless one has special arrangements for them. We can, for example, look at the investigation by Arts & Business, which has been described earlier this year. It shows that the number of enterprises that sponsor and cooperate with cultural life has increased significantly from 2009 to 2013. Many companies also confirm that it is more interesting to sponsor cultural life after the government has doubled its cultural budget since 2005, but still this mistrust. I note that with this budget, and with this government and the plans they indicate that they have for the future, not only have we lost the cultural promise, but that we have also lost the whole-hearted work of art, culture and quality. It seems, for example: as if the new government believes that participation and the work for participation are in conflict with the work for quality. On the contrary, they support each other. An example is that they remove the cultural sculetik. It shows something of the same thing, because we see that some family backgrounds are not as represented as other family backgrounds among artists and audiences. To put it another way: there are many with backgrounds like Widvey in cultural life, but get my background. Cultural school hours are one measure that, together with a number of other measures, could help many young people, with different backgrounds, to experience the amazing things in culture — and that they might be able to think that they want to move on, that they also want to become great cultural professionals. Participation and quality are linked, because precisely when different perspectives, views and cultural expressions challenge each other, one can create drivers for quality in culture. This look is missing the new cultural policy, he's missing the whole thing. Now one has returned to the honorary word ‘diversity’, ‘power spread’ — without content — and the consequences over time can become quite large.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1102	Now there will be a pause in the middle of this discussion, and that might be an advantage, because I would challenge the Minister of Culture to give a concrete example of what she has raised from criticism of the cultural policy of the previous government. In an article in the Evening Post, she says that there are ‘concrete leadership and content desires’ on the part of national politicians. The representative Giske came with the Cultural Council's letter of assignment from this year, and I challenge the Minister of Culture again to say what 'contental leads' are contained in this letter of assignment. How will the Council of Culture feel more freedom when they have to make relatively large cuts from their posts on next year's budget? This is a very concrete call, and I expect that we will get a good answer, where she can cover where the content leaders really are. I have the impression that this is only a substantial argument that the Minister of Culture has lost the budget battle. She delivers a cultural budget that is higher than it has been before, but the direction is wrong. I am glad that we have had research objectives, that we have had transport targets, the National Transport Plan, that we have had a long-term defence plan. This meant that yesterday in the Chamber we adopted a defence budget that all the parties agreed on – very important! But in two areas, the government uses a different argument – it's aid to the world's poor, and it's culture. Instead, they give priority to quality, and I think it is contempt for the art debate to camouflage the quality concept. You only use quality in art as a substitute argument, when it's really not about it. I think it would be much more interesting if the Minister of Culture could launch a discussion on quality within the arts -- I think it's a very important discussion -- but when it's used only as a substitute argument to explain cut, it just seems like a hole. I would also like to say: I also think it is very important that other departments have invested in culture, and yesterday we had to cut – within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, we had to cut off the artists who go to international cultural festivals, we had to cut off the role of Music Norway. But the cats came out of the bag well under the posts of the representative Nordby Lunde. She called the artists subsidized industries, and that's where the ideological contradiction lies, that artists are described as part of the subsidized industries. I think of the artists in our society as something completely different. Free artists are absolutely crucial to the social debate, and the quality of our society is increasing when we get the critical look from the art. So here lies the ideological contradictions, where the left-hand side stands for more freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1113	The next and last speaker at the morning meeting is the representative Morten Stordalen, who has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1116	The representative Aasrud made a little visit to me, and that's why I have to answer. There was a claim that I had said from the pulpit that cultural construction was not important. I don't think that's what I said. I said it was about the budgets, about the one percent, and to meet that one percent, it was taken from seven different departments and from, among other things, from. some maintenance of construction – I did not say that it was not important. As for the fact that I missed the commitment to proposals in the vote, the representative Aasrud tells me that the original budget of the Stoltenberg government was the basis. Yes, that also underlies this government. That's what's at stake, and that's a new attitude, and that's where I missed the commitment – which wasn't in line with the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1123	Then Stortinget interrupts its negotiations, and the meeting will be resumed at 9 p.m. 3:30. The President wishes happiness in the City Hall! The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11.35 ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1139	The decision continues to deal with the case No. 4, 5, 6 and 7 on agenda No. 24th@item: inlistbox The first speaker is the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen. The representative has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1144	I'm going to use that little minute to ask if the council could say anything more about the arrangements they've proposed for choir. She said instead that they had put in activity materials for amateur choirs all over the country. At the same time, you've removed 2 million. kr from a pot intended for semi-professional choir. I'm also a little bit in two minds about how to think about the fine bouquet of professional choirs, like the red-green government promised, and that's located in four cities, in four regions, and that keep a high level of quality. This applies to traditional music, joics and art music, both traditional and experimental. You've picked up two choirs, and it's nice that the Norwegian Solo choir and the Kor West get a lift, but it's hard to see what you're thinking about now the fine bouquet of professional choirs that we raised by 12 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1153	The representative, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1156	The Council of State claimed earlier today that the Christian People’s Party was wrong when it came to cutting the company support. To that it is to say that we can read budget. Item 55 is cut by 16.5 million. kr in addition to the cut in Item 56, multiannual project grants. We can discuss substance, but we can't doubt facts. Nor can the text of the proposition be reworked. So for voting on VII, the proposal moves power out of elected bodies. It's a power that the Christian People's Party will not give. In addition, I am concerned when the government writes that the Council of Culture should assess the appropriations, among other things. in the light of the quantities applied for in the various fields. A break in the main distribution will create uncertainty for many, creating unfortunate competition between the different cultural purposes. The size has a responsibility to ensure the necessary political priorities between objectives. That's why we're voting against VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1171	It was interesting to experience before the break a hard pressed state council that either had problems replying, or did not want to answer. Now it's time to challenge her again. We hope that she has used the pause well, so that we can get an answer from the Stockholm pulpit on important claims made by the Council of State itself, and on what is actually the Right Cultural Policy. It's interesting to note a government council trying to be fun, when you don't have a good answer, saying that the amount of money can't matter to politics. It is, as I have said earlier from this pulpit, perhaps the first time that a Council of State has said that it does not matter to that Council of State what kind of budget you are allocated. It's probably just a camouflage to hide the fact that you've lost in a hard fight in government negotiations. Nor did the Council of State respond to how to substantiate the claims made by the Council of State itself in respect of alleged leadership contained in the letter of award to the Council of Culture. She was repeatedly asked to come up to this pulpit and document the location of these leaders in the letter of assignment. It has not yet happened, and we hope that we will get a clarification of that, because it is not right at all. Nor did the council respond to Rigmor Aasrud's call to clarify whether she intends to come to Stortinget with a case before the government might allow the licensing of games. It is important to clarify whether this is something that the government will leave to others, or whether it will ensure that Parliament is given the opportunity to discuss such a radical change in game policy in Norway. Unfortunately, it goes into the range of situations in which the government pushes other actors in the face of either a lack of answers or a lack of answers. We've seen it in connection with the cuts in the Council of Culture. Instead of being honest with the sector and defending the cuts you stand for yourself, the Culture Council is left to take care of the cuts, thereby pointing to them if there are actors who feel that they have missed out on funds and feel that it is difficult to plan the future. We've seen the same thing about the book industry. Instead of saying that you want to come to Stortinget with a clarification as to whether a book agreement will be in line with the EEA agreement before you possibly go in favour of it and delete the book law, you say that this is up to the industry itself. Then there is much more liberating and better with a representative like Heidi Nordby Lunde, who actually says that cultural policy is at the back of the line, and that the cultural industries are subsidized industries. It would be interesting if we got a clarification of the Right View of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1188	Culture is so much. It's from the finest and narrowest to the entirely built-up culture. There's a spread and a diversity here that I don't think the debate completely reflects, because that should be the same approach to how to finance that culture. The debate is not about whether we should have state resources or not. It's going to be huge government funds. The question is whether we should have an anxiety-bitter relationship with others who can contribute. It's an interaction across the whole cultural sector. Take, for example: the large public institutions with regard to the price of their cultural offerings: it is clear that it determines to what extent it is possible to operate at all with a private offer on the side. If you subsidize the theatre so strongly that they can keep the price at a very low level, it will almost not be possible to exist as a private theater institution. I think that is actually quite close to the situation in Norway. It was the representative Liadal, who described a nirvana with state resources, who made me consider drawing me on the list of speakers. So the representatives Giske and Huitfeldt came afterwards with what I'd almost call some naive notions that it's just a matter of giving enough money. For example, if you become an actor, maybe you should realize that you have to work when others don't. You must actually be able to play performances at night. I see a little shaking on the heads, but there is not much of a public theater performance after 8 p.m. 21 on Saturdays and not on Sundays due to working time regulations. It's quite amusing that you don't realize that you have to meet an audience. I think it has to do with having fairly liberal state funding sources in that area. I think you should have respect for diversity. In fact, inviting some private people will be able to widen the culture, and it could both increase the quality and do something about the angle of incidence of how to solve different types of challenges. I just wanted to get into some things that maybe there should be some nuances associated with just seeing it as positive that there are state resources in culture. Of course it should be. There's always going to be a lot of government money in the culture, but we don't have to be anxious as soon as you invite someone private to join in and color this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1204	The representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1207	The red-green strategy is obvious that attack is the best defense. The Enger committee tells us that the goal of cultural school for anyone who wants it has not been achieved. The left-hand medicine seems to be a mass education offer, a culture class in the SFO. To call it a cultural school hour is free and an attempt to whitewash a faded goal with a cloth borrowed from the cultural schools. The high quality of cultural schools, with small groups and one-to-one education, is quite different from an activity class in the SFO. The schools and the SFO themselves confirm that they are unable to deliver such a quality offer as we are talking about here. I would also like to briefly say something about Concert at work. In a newspaper lookup in Bergen's Official Journal this summer, both the artists at the workplace who are there and entertaining, and the employees said they have trouble seeing the point. Other culture is more important, and we're not going to spend public money on a concert during the lunch break. It is allowed to run from the responsibility a few weeks after leaving the position, but it does not look beautiful.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1216	First of all, I would like to thank today's speakers for their engaging and inspiring debate. It is historic that four Ministers of Culture — three formerly and one present — meet to discuss the budget. I'm glad, because I think no matter how disagreed we are, it serves the debate that we all care about what we think is important: the field of culture, volunteering and sport. The representative Trond Giske has asked me to give some examples of content management to the previous government. Here I have to limit myself to a few examples, because it's not time to mention everyone. From 2008, the funds allocated to the Culture Fund were allocated to professional chapters, and in addition, they were fully specified under the individual grant scheme. This was resolved gradually, but the red-greens continued with very specific leadership within the individual scheme. For example, the following was adopted by Stortinget and thus imposed on the Council of Culture by letter of award in 2013: 2 million. kr for publishing support, SEK 3 million. SEK for the festivals, 1 million. kr for organiser support, etc. A review of the grant letters from the Stoltenberg Government shows that the beneficiaries, for example: is required to think about diversity and integration in programming. In addition, they have been asked and invited to participate in different markings, such as the anniversary of the Constitution, the anniversary of voting rights and the year of the language. It is clear that this together limits the freedom of the institutions to dispose of budgetary resources as they wish. Today, the government receives a majority for the largest Norwegian cultural budget of the time. I record that the representatives of the previous government think strangely that it is a loss. Get it, whoever wants it. For example, the representative Anniken Huitfeldt says: that what was the whole point of the cultural promise was that if the cost of hospitals or pensions increased, culture would also get more, more specifically 1 pst. by the State budget. Then I would like to remind you that the cultural promise was a red-green concept. This government has different ideas about cultural policy. We want a new direction. This government is committed to maintaining a high level of government grants to cultural life, as I also said in my post earlier today, but we have no faith that a constructed formula necessarily solves the challenges of cultural life. And what challenges are cultural life actually facing today? The government believes that after eight years of red-green government there are several things that need to be changed in politics. As I have also tried to explain earlier today, we will continue to do so, but I think it is very important to focus on the fact that these are great opportunities. It's the overall goals of the government that, after all, are going to mean the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1231	The representative Svein Harberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1234	There were only two things I needed to clarify. One is about the concept of the cultural promise and the reactions to the fact that, at one point, I also suggested that it could be a ‘curse of culture’. This was true when a technical person takes in money that is already in the budget – which is not new, fresh money for culture – and raises it as a goal to say that one has lifted and increased. That's what we're talking about as a bluff, when money just moves in and is referred to as an increase without being so, without being real money for culture. The second concerns clarification of the proposals that have been made. The three proposals from the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV are not going to go ahead. As far as SV’s proposal is concerned, the intention is good, but to give a blank authorisation to anyone who wants to conduct language training without having quality criteria becomes difficult, as well as to commit future budgets. That's why we don't go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1241	The representative Nordby Lunde gives the term "snobb" a whole new meaning after she has described engineers versus artists. If you want to follow her reasoning on subsidized industries a little longer, you can say that engineers who build roads with the state's money are also in a subsidized industry. The point of the Workers' Party is not whether anyone is subsidized or not, but that we need both artists and engineers. Finally, I would like to remind the Council of State and, in particular, the representative of Nordby Lunde that being a cultural worker is not a voluntary effort. It's a profession, in line with all the other professions in this country, and we're going to have respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1248	So far, we haven't heard anyone from the government parties explain how less money increases freedom. When fewer artists get their projects implemented, freedom is reduced, not the opposite. But in the absence of a good answer to that question, the right-hand side has for several years driven an argument, where they say – and I quote the Minister of Culture in the Evening Post: ‘We want to set cultural life free from concrete leadership and content desires on the part of national policies.’ Well, let's look at what these leaders are, because there aren't contentual leads or artistic judgement that's being affected. For example, the Cultural Council's letter of award states that: to contribute to innovation. It's a policy of culture. It's said to provide facilities for children and young people. It's a policy of culture. You say to do something for equality, so that women and men have equal opportunities to participate in cultural life. It is not about artistic judgement whether women should have the same opportunities as men – it is cultural policy. When you also facilitate diversity, so that people with different skin color or another religion don't meet closed doors, but meet with artistic openness, then it's cultural policy. The representative of Becquerad had an exemplary basic course in cultural policy for the Minister of Culture in his speech. It's not art science to decide how much money we spend on literature or music. What are the reasons for this artistic discretion? It's cultural policy. It is cultural policy to decide whether to provide support for organisers or support for choirs. On the other hand, it is artistic discretion to decide that Kor Vest and the Norwegian Sololistkor will receive money, but the Minister of Culture will decide that. On page 71 of Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2013–2014 states that Kor West and the Norwegian Solistkor will receive 3 million respectively. SEK and 6.5 million. kr. My question is – and the Council of State Widvey has drawn up a post afterwards – what kind of artistic assessment was there that led to precisely these choirs being supported, instead of establishing a support scheme that could provide money to the choirs that were most qualified? These choirs may have been the best qualified. I grew up in a orphanage. I know choir. But I wonder how the Minister of Culture explains it. Then they say that the leaders are how much money is going for the organizer's support, how much money is going for festival support. Well, on page 70 of the supplementary proposal, the government writes, for example, that the measure Concert on the job is terminated. I guess that's the exact same lead. They write that, within the band’s music cut, priority shall be given to the ‘organisers, ensembles and music recording publishing support’ subsidy scheme. That's what the current government says. In the field of stage art, it is said that «basic funding for free performing arts groups» should be given priority. That's what you say in your own supplementary proposition. What is cultural policy, and what is artistic understanding? It would have been a great advantage if you had a Minister of Culture who knew the difference. The letters of assignment are largely written by a very competent department that knows the difference between cultural policy and artistic discretion. My experience after four years in that department is that the job makes the office completely excellent, and they continue to do it perfectly well. It's the Minister of Culture who's on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1264	What's interesting about this debate is that the questions that are now being asked to the Council of State, most recently by the representative Giske, are questions that we've basically been asking for years. In the previous period, the red-green parties in the Culture Committee were charged with governing cultural life. We also requested an example from representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, who stubbornly meant this, in each of these letters of assignment. We never got that, and I'm now very excited about what kind of answers we get from the council. So to the discussion about the cultural culetime. I thought it was interesting when Løvaas talked about mass education – the whole thing suddenly turned out to be very negative. It is also often called group education. I think very well the reactions in cultural life when this cultural culetime came. There were no negative reactions to it, and I can't see what's negative about the fact that elephants can participate in dance, choir, theater - maybe the whole class can play ukulele, for everything I know. I believe that group education is a very positive measure, and it was never produced by the red-green government as if everyone were now going to receive one-to-one education on the wrong or clarinet. Finally, Gunnar Gundersen is quite right that we often define the culture in different spheres. He said fine culture, narrow culture – and then he said building-based culture. I think maybe we're on fire, first of all, trying not to divide the culture into all of these little boxes. People from both districts and towns may be driven by what is called fine culture, and narrow and broad culture. I think, even though this is a little bit ironic, that this might be a little bit of the nucleus of what we're trying to say is the difference between the cultural view on the right and the left. We want, as I said, and as a review thread throughout the debate, to have a culture of good quality throughout the country. They run with both classical music, which someone often calls fine culture, and misplay all over the country, and then we have to fix it. I think it might be a little special that one now – within a cut that maybe didn't seem so much if either – hides it behind new manipulation that makes it seem very negative, when it's more like something that Kultur-Noreg has been happy about, and, I think, now that it's sad that it's gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1273	There were questions today about the licensing of foreign companies, and whether the State Council intends to come to the Stortinget with it. Of course – it will require a change in the law, which is quite natural for you to come back to Stortinget with. In the case of e.g.: The postcode lottery shall be authorised to operate, as determined by the Ministry of Culture, which may be delegated to the Lottery Authority, as specified. What we have said in the government platform. I have also noticed that there are several people who have been in the film today. Digital developments may have led to major changes in production and distribution and sales, with a significant impact on the financing of films. We believe that today's instruments are designed in the reality of yesterday. That's why we in the government have decided that we would like to promote a big message about movies. We aim to start that work now, so that we can have the opportunity to promote it in the spring of 2015. As I said earlier today, after eight years of red-green governance, there are especially three things cultural life now needs: it's freedom, it's more flexibility, and it's a greater focus on content and quality. To take the last one first: I believe that a one-sided focus on the level of grants over many years has removed the attention from the content and quality of the public cultural debate. We're going to do something about it, and we're going to do it by letting cultural life itself define the quality. Such a definition cannot be imposed by public authorities, on the contrary, quality must be built and defined from below and up. Secondly, cultural life needs more freedom. It means fewer business leaders from the state, and more opportunities for self-determination. This government trusts that the businesses in our cultural life can dispose of their money for the best of culture. Thirdly, cultural life also needs more flexibility. Money from several teams will help create this flexibility. Gifts and sponsorship will make cultural life less dependent on the public, and it will also make cultural life less bound by forms and deadlines. I want to work to ensure that we still have strong public budgets, of course, and they should be supplemented, not least, with more funds from the private sector. The gift-enhancing system or sponsorship does not threaten Norwegian cultural life, rather on the contrary – there will be more freedom and more flexibility in Norwegian cultural life. So it's not about a either-or-tank passage, it's about a both-and-tank passage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1292	It has been mentioned several times today that culture is not dead under the new government. That's right. Culture lives, but it's got a new direction, a new ideology – and maybe that's what the voters have chosen. It's interesting to listen to some of the posts. The representative, Gundersen, was involved in the work of the actors. It is clearly announced that something will be done with the working time regulations, I read from that article. It could have been nice if the representative Gundersen had said a little more about what he was thinking about it. There have been many articles about sponsorship and private, and asking the private ones as sponsors and contributors. Yes, it's done today, but it's the most interesting, the best, that's being sponsored. I don't think it's hard to find sponsors for the Nobel concert tomorrow, but what about those who aren't on top? What about the ones that are at the beginning? What about those who do their very best, but don't drag people? That's who we're going to go with. And volunteering – it's already vacuuming the local market today. Does the government actually mean that we're going to have more waffles, more lot sales? It's also sponsorship – maybe that's the kind of sponsorship that's wanted? Then I realized that the nest pack was a little greeting to me from the representative of Løvaas. I think the representative should look at the TV entry from Jotron a few weeks ago. There was Odd Nordstoga and entertained. The head of Jotron pointed out what it did to the working environment, what it meant, and what such action really meant. The employees said it gets up interest, it helps you actually want to do more. The representative Harberg was in on it with bluffs. I want to say that there is something that is bluffy, it is the library-lift that is made here. Here, too, they steal money from other fields, if that's what we're talking about. Here they take money, they raise money – yes, it's real, everyone can do it. They're different priorities. Two million. NOK from Arbark, SEK 4 million. kr from the nest bag – is this clean, new money? No, that's priority. But that's not what we wanted. It is also interesting to hear that the Council of State does not respond to what the representative Giske asked about the choirs. What was asked was why it was given leadership on two choirs, and not on the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1309	I think we have to point out that when you move money here in the hall, it's not stealing, it's moving money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1313	For us who have listened to the cultural debate today, it has been a bit strange experience. It is a good cultural budget that we are now dealing with – especially because we are many parties on the Stortinget that agree with much of it – and we can enjoy great cultural experiences this year, both small and large around the country. But when you listen to the representatives of the Workers' Party in particular, it really sounds like it's bad. After eight years of working party rule in the field of culture, it seems that culture is facing a difficult time. The debate here is a cause for concern. The concern is that the Workers' Party measures successful cultural policies in money – everything is about money. How many dollars and cents are allocated is the answer to whether we get a successful cultural policy or not. I think this is a little worrying, not least after we've seen what the former Minister of Culture Anne Enger's selection came to light. What did they come up with? Yes, after a red-green record increase in the use of money, the goal of better living conditions for artists was not met. It wasn't. Systematic follow-up of quality objectives in cultural policy is completely lacking. The cost growth of cultural institutions is a structural challenge. They need more flexible operation and better cooperation with the free field, not just money. What does the cultural barometer show? Well, three cultural ministers have stood on the platform and told us how successful cultural policy is just enough money – they make cultural policy just a matter of money. It's gonna be so poor. When we look at the SSB cultural barometer, we see that almost all cultural practices, including cinema and sports events, went down from 2008 to 2012, under the red-green government. We have to raise our eyes a little bit. This government is concerned that cultural life should be free and independent of political governance. Cultural policy shall not be used as a tool to achieve policy objectives in other areas. We have to get the cultural debate to deal with something more than just heads and ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1324	The representative of Hadia Tajik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1327	The representative of Hofstad Helleland says that the red-green people are just talking about money. We don't. But I'm assuming that capitalists are the first to understand that money is important. The representative of Hofstad Helleland was also involved in the work of the Enger Committee. I would like to remind you that the Enger selection was reduced by the previous government just because we wanted the money to be spent in the most reasonable way possible, and precisely because we were looking for the criticism that the Enger selection raised, and that we answered through the Cultural Lift 3. I registered, like several of the other representatives, that the Minister of Culture did not respond to Trond Giske’s challenge, i.e. to clarify the differences between cultural policy and cultural discretion. The way in which the Minister of Culture himself has dealt with the cultural-discipline when it comes to the award of choirs has been done well. But I want to remind you that the Right has the tradition of inconsistent and short arms. It's only been a few years since the Right's Cultural Spokesman raised an interpellation debate with exactly Trond Giske, in which he called for a governance tool for the content of the National Gallery. [[President clubs]] What characteristics will the Minister of Culture give of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1336	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1339	At the end of the debate, I would like to sum up with the following conclusion: when the government parties talk about quality, they really mean ideology. And when they talk about freedom, they really mean cut. This is – briefly summarised – the speeches by the two government parties in this debate. It was interesting to hear the Council of State's response to the call to come here and explain what was the hopeless leadership of the Council of Culture's priorities. What has been widely understood by many cultural ministers in recent years, namely the need to expect something from children and young people, gender equality, inclusion and innovation, has been debated. If these are hopeless leaderships, I would like the Council of State – when she is about to go up to the pulpit – to explain the following: Which of these four is the Council of State that wants to remove and take the initiative that should no longer apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1346	The representative Giske has challenged me on a few questions. I just want to mention that the red-greens chose five choirs as they highlighted in the fund. I think that is a very strong lead for the Council's priorities in relation to the fund. We've highlighted two choirs and lifted them out of the fund – it's cultural policy. I remind you that this did the red-green ones themselves by taking action from the fund into fixed items in the budget. I noticed that Bekkewold mentioned this with provisions for music purposes from the chapter. Yes, it is cut in the chapter for provisions for music purposes under the Culture Fund, but within the provisions, ensembles shall be prioritised. It's given a strong expression. I need to say that the five choirs, including KorVest and Solistkoret, gathered their grants under the reserve for music in the fund from 2013. Two of these choirs are now lifted out and moved to entry 78, with direct government grants. Of course, this doesn't change the status of the other three choirs. I have also noticed that there have been questions about semi-professional choirs, for which the government of Stoltenberg put forward a new arrangement. We believe that three funding schemes under the Culture Fund that can be applied for today adequately cover professional and semi-professional choirs. We trust that Norwegian Cultural Councils will be able to prioritise the best in these arenas. I would once again like to thank you for the debate today. I can promise that we will come back constructively with many good proposals, and also promote economies of scale. There will be plenty of opportunity to participate in the debate on the content of Norwegian cultural life in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1361	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1364	We now learned that the difference between cultural policy and cultural and artistic discretion is a place between two and five choirs. When the Red-Greens believe that five choirs will receive support from the Council of Culture, there is interference. When the Minister of Culture believes that two choirs should be supported, it is a general cultural policy – great! We did not get an answer as to why leadership in the additional proposition for new drama, for ensembles and for stage art is cultural policy, while the same leaders under us – for example. festival support – is meddling. Why the artistic discretion on the basis of which the Minister of Culture decides which choirs are to be supported is artificially based instead of being based on a support scheme, nor were we answered. Nor were we given an answer as to which leaders – whether they are for children and young people, those for diversity, those for integration, those for equality or those for innovation – are going out. The Minister of Culture says that quantity is not important – the size of the budget does not matter. In the evening post, she says that quality is not something the Minister of Culture should interfere with. So we have a Minister of Culture who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1373	We're going to the next debate, to the 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1376	I was happy for a while when I saw that 10 minutes of speaking time came up – because I could have basically used it very constructively, I think. But we are going to move on to a new and important policy area – and it is at least an equally important debate for our committee. First of all, I would like to reiterate my thanks to the members of the Committee for flexibility and constructive cooperation, who have made it possible to put in place an attitude that I believe will be a good one for all the parties in the Committee. There is no doubt that family policy is a challenging and demanding policy area. I have to say that especially in dealing with children and young people who have challenges, and who need help from society in order to get new opportunities, it is easy to feel dismayed that one does not start action that takes the target groups fast enough. It's particularly bad to see that many people don't get enough access to the help they should have had. It is therefore the government's main task to seal the gaps in the social security network around children and young people that require a handshake from society in a tough and challenging everyday life. While it is not always easy to prioritize between several good purposes, a powerful government must nevertheless make some such choices. On the right, the government supports giving priority to the actions that we already know work and that can help more people now. We are impatient in this field, and would like to do a lot of things, but on the basis that we had for our budgetary work this time, re-priority to immediate action was absolutely necessary. I record that the Labour Party disagrees with our priorities and accuses us of cutting. Firstly, it can be difficult to call it cut when making changes compared to what has never been adopted, and secondly, it is worth noting that the majority of the people just a few months ago have clearly expressed their desire for a new government, and thus new and other priorities. The budgets in the coming years will include even more clear priorities and targeted efforts on actions where we know that efforts are working. The fact that there has not been a system for the systematic collection of facts showing the extent, needs and outcomes of instruments is a strange story in itself. We record that the Stoltenberg government on the way out of the government offices would initiate this, but would, for example, do so. not be financed from the outset of the actions agreed that will have a direct and good impact on the target audience. This has been corrected by the government. A clear strengthening of the child-restraint resources and a direct effort of 20 million. In order to facilitate the provision of an individual school offer to several of these children, they are able to carry out school and experience learning and mastering, which opens doors out of the difficult situation in which they are. It has to end that a place in child protection gives you a connection to the public utility for the rest of your life. A difficult start needs to be followed up with an additional effort to maximise individual opportunities, similar to those of other children and young people. We have many good helpers in this fight. It's an impressive commitment and an overwhelming personal effort of many individuals that makes us optimistic. As former rapporteur, I have seen the efforts of the employees in the municipality to help. I know it's like this in the municipalities, and they're going to have a big thank-you. Humanity cannot be adopted, it must be exercised by the employees, but of course we must keep an eye on improvements in the framework conditions. However, there is a large group of people employed in the private sector who give us feedback that they do not feel equally valued and do not feel the necessary security for their jobs. For this government, it will be a clear objective to use all good forces, regardless of the employer's connection, public or private and ideal. It is the quality of the supply and availability of the individual user that will determine its use. In the area of family policy, too, we are dealing today with a budget which makes political dividing lines clear. It is both natural, important and probably not very surprising that the government, together with the cooperation parties, prioritises schemes that build up under each family's freedom of choice. We have a basic confidence that each family can make a good choice for itself. The trust in individuals and families is so central to us that it really hurts – in myself and on behalf of the many families who have chosen to use the cash support – when Jens Stoltenberg says: We cannot introduce those who have chosen the wrong one. Such an attitude towards families who choose an accessible, public solution is quite arrogant. At the same time, the opinion tells us about a party that they think has the right solution. It must all follow, and everyone else is wrong. The government and the majority of the population are not going to work that way. We're going to continue to have faith and trust that our citizens can make good choices on their own. We will facilitate flexibility and good solutions both for the individual user and for the municipalities that will contribute to the organisation of users, their citizens. It is precisely this idea that we have not chosen to impose on the municipalities two babysittings per year. Of course, we have registered that the Stoltenberg government on the way out of the government offices proposed a start-up grant for two recordings. The scheme is in no way fully financed, and a round with the municipalities says that this is not necessarily the solution that gives the right flexibility in their municipality. The right has been clear that we want a flexible recording system, and this is a work we want to follow up. On repeated questions, several government councils have also clearly replied that this will be followed up. Representatives from the opposition, who have promised such a scheme in elections, and not delivered, are now very shocked that this is not in place within two months with a new government. It's not us. To impose on the municipalities two recordings that they are not ready to deliver is not a flexible solution. A predictable and highly flexible solution takes more than two months to establish as nothing has been done in advance. The government has also made important priorities here. First, we give priority to competence and quality, clearly provided in the budget. The costs for parents with children in kindergarten are adjusted only for price and salary growth, and extra attention is paid to the management and competence of children. That is a good and important priority. Finally, I just want to remind you once again that the most important government and we in Stortinget can now do is close the holes in the social network, the network that will provide security and help to those who need it the most. We're going to do that by increasing the effort and by using all the good forces. When we can look at the result that we've helped more people through and out of the challenges, we've all won a big victory. I hope we can be together about that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1404	First of all, I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. Well-functioning child protection is important to provide children in a timely manner who need help and care. A good childhood lasts for generations, and childhood does not come in reprisals, as the message states just before summer. Kindergarten, health centre and school are important arenas to address challenges early. Children’s best interests will guide their efforts, and good professional, knowledge-based solutions are one of those that contribute to a better life. The red-green government therefore started a thorough review of child protection in 2010 to see how the most vulnerable children were taken care of. The background was concerns about a lack of child protection. The ex-post review led to the child-restraint lift. Under the red-green government, child protection has been strengthened by earmarked funds, municipalities have increased free income, and the result is 1000 new jobs and many empowerment measures. In addition, legislative changes have strengthened the right of children to be heard by having their own trustee, and there has been increased supervision of child protection. Several surveys have aimed to improve the protection of children and the protection of children. The last one that was treated before the summer was met with great joy from among others. child-restraint and child-restraint workers. The bet that has been made has reversed a negative trend. More children get help, employees have better knowledge, and there is a decrease in deadlines. We're on the right track, but there's more to it. More competence and more staff are needed, and the Committee agrees that the capacity of municipal child protection needs to be increased – I am pleased. It is also good that the government follows up a lot of what the red-green government suggested. Several of the measures continue — there are very good specific measures in the area of prevention and strengthening supervision. What's not so good is that the scope study related to violence against children, with a pen stroke gone. The right hand side and the front side were so keen on it in the opposition, but now it's 3.5 million. Removed – that money is to be used for something else. The children's conversation is another regrettable cut. The training program employees could get, was in order to take the difficult conversation and thus contribute to the detection of violence and sexual abuse. This shows that government does not give priority to the weakest and will not contribute to a better everyday life for vulnerable children. We don't know, we can't put in new, good measures. Another concern is the increased proportion of local authorities now receiving in the settlement of lone minor asylum seekers. My contribution to the debate on the municipal budget last week made my concern visible. Will the municipalities now take that task? Does not the Christian People's Party and the Left, which usually fronts children's rights, see that it is going to hit those who should be resident? I would like to mention again that cooperation, prevention and competence are necessary for the functioning of child protection. There's a lot that's good, but there's still a lot that's missing. Too many children have a tough everyday life – too many children are hurt. Much of what is to be done is to be done publicly. But it does not relieve each of us of the responsibility we have by saying no to suspicion or knowledge of children who are not well. The Christoffer case from my own home country, Vestfold, is given as a warning that no one is allowed to let go of seeing or not taking responsibility for children. Children deserve wise adults. So I'm going to deal with the proposals. 3 and 4 in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1435	The representative of Sonja Mandt has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1438	Let me start by saying that I'm happy that we now have a government that adds up to a new direction, and that makes family policy clear by taking the family seriously. Families are important, and it is therefore good to provide help for those who need it. Strengthening family protection is now a priority. It is important to provide good, qualitative assistance when the need for help occurs, precisely because in some cases it is not possible to solve within the family without receiving outside specialist professional assistance, for example from the family protection service. It is important to have a good, well-functioning low-threshold service, which means that you can look for help yourself and order an hour where everything is voluntary. However, family protection offices should, to a greater extent, also operate outlyingly in order to make their activities visible. Children deserve that we as adults provide the best possible help for those families that do not work as they should. The growth of children has so much to say for their further journey. So we have to deal with the most vulnerable, the children. If a family can get just that help, it could mean so much to both those involved and society. That is why I am pleased that we are now getting a strengthening of this service. In addition to public service provision, it is also appropriate to stress that the majority sees the importance of being able to make use of all good family protection capacities, which also include private and non-profit activities. Even after a break in life, it is important to stress an obliging parenthood, where cooperation between parents is essential for the growth of children. I would also like to highlight the fact that there is now a need to strengthen the treatment provision for young violent people and children exposed to violence and sexual abuse. I am pleased that we now have a solid political majority recognising existing gender and discrimination challenges and stressing the objective of strengthening equality and creating a better protection of discrimination for all by promoting proposals for a universal equality and discrimination law. Such a law will bring together the different forms of discrimination, which in turn will provide more user-friendly equality and discrimination legislation. I record that all parties in the committee support this, except the Workers' Party. The government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, believe that equality is so much more than gender equality. Therefore, we will focus on strengthening universal equality and creating a better protection of discrimination for all, regardless of function, religion, orientation, ethnic background or gender. This is largely about equivalency, accepting that, for example, parents make different choices as to who should be at home with the children and how long they are young. We're going to have respect and support for those who make the choice to be home with their children for shorter periods when they're young. I think it's sad when it's focused on how things go beyond the work line when parents make a choice about being at home with their children. Much of the work on gender equality and discrimination takes place in families. But it's important what we adults signal to our children. These are attitudes and values they take with them further on the road to adult life. I think many were moved by Sunday's lookup in the VG, where parents had invited to birthday party for two boys of eight years, and none of the invited children showed up. It was a sad reading. Regardless of the reason, we are adults who have to take responsibility for not doing so. This is all about the seventh and last thing about which values we transfer to our children. In general, I believe that the establishment of even more comprehensive state structures does not necessarily contribute to more equality. On the other hand, I trust that municipalities, employers, employee organisations and families are able to do this job themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1466	The Christian People's Party's family policy aims at ensuring children a safe upbringing, and at ensuring good conditions for families. Safety and time are important for children’s growing-up conditions. The Christian People's Party's family policy is based on trust in the families, a desire for more time and flexibility, and that consideration of family life must take precedence over work and productivity. It is necessary to provide for high-quality care systems adapted to each child, the fight for equality and equal pay, the protection of family, marriage, togetherness and parenthood, as well as the protection against abuse and violence. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will support the family as the most important community of children. The family is usually the most important community of children, and is the arena where children learn to live with others, develop social skills and learn basic values such as solidarity, community and tolerance. The Christian People's Party will work to give families more time, flexibility and freedom of choice to live their everyday lives as they choose. Of course, in this budget we are dealing with now, there are some inequalities and some disagreements, but there are also important issues and important areas where we gather. I think that's a pleasure. Among other things, a joint committee states that: «all children over the age of 1 must have the same entitlement to kindergarten, regardless of when they were born». Now it is the case that all children born before 1 September have a statutory right to a nursery place as a 1-year-old. On the other hand, children born after 1 September have no such entitlement to kindergarten until the next main admission, which takes place in August of each year, thus risking having to wait almost a full year in place. Parents with children born after 1 September may, against their will, have to take unpaid leave or obtain a day’s mother for up to one year after the end of the leave period. The Christian People's Party believes that all children over one year of age must have the same entitlement to kindergarten, regardless of when they are born and the age at which the family wants to make use of the nursery facilities, and is therefore very impatient to put in place the flexibility that is lacking today. But it is gratifying to see that a joint committee shares the same point of view as the Christian People's Party, and we are impatient to see results in this area. In this budget that we have agreed on, the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, the cash support is also raised to NOK 6000 per month for children between 12 and 23 months. This is something Christian People's Party is very happy that we've got in place. It gives more flexibility and greater freedom of choice for those who want to be a little bit more at home with their children, while such a grip also leads to the release of some kindergartens. I see that the Labour Party's argument is that this leads to cuts in the number of kindergartens. Well, this is something that the Workers' Party itself added as a calculation when they made changes to the cash support. They cut off the cash support for children between two and three years of age and increased the cash support for children between 12 and 18 months of age. Then they figured out the same way you did here, what it's going to lead to in detached kindergartens because there's a lot of people who choose to be at home. So this is nothing new that the new government is doing. This is a calculation that has also been done before, by the red-green government. Another thing where we now see a positive movement, is what goes on the one-time benefit. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have, for the first time in a long time, been given an increase in the one-time benefit. I'll come back and talk more about it in a later article, but here we're impatient, because here we have greater ambitions than just raising by NOK 3,500 that is in this budget. We believe that the injustice that lies in the one-off support today must be corrected, and I hope that we will have a good dialogue with the government parties in this area, because there is a real need for a lift here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1486	Some of the most heartbreaking in the welfare community of Norway in 2013 are certain that there are still tens of thousands of children growing up in poverty or experiencing care failure. Each loss of childhood is one too much point. For the Left, the fight against child poverty is also a taboo in this ageing period, and no one in this room should be satisfied with the options we are considering today, what is the problem of poverty, whether one is behind the red-green proposal or the budgetary conciliation. Poverty can affect anyone - often unexpectedly, randomly and for complex reasons. Some are persistently unable to earn an income they can live on. They must have a level of support that gives them the ability to live a decent life. Support schemes which determine the living conditions of children shall be transparent. If we are to solve the poverty challenges, there is a set of tools that need to be implemented: targeted support schemes above the state budget, not least when it comes to assisting disadvantaged people in the labour market, increasing social assistance rates, early efforts in the field of child protection and schooling, a large-scale effort in the field of drugs and psychiatry and, last but not least, using differentiated and, on the one hand, free rates for universal schemes such as child care, SFO and child welfare – to name a few. Compared to both the red-green starting point and the budgetary agreement, the Left in the alternative budget has an extra effort to combat poverty of about 1.6 billion. kr. Neither is it enough to eliminate poverty, but it indicates the level of ambition of the Left in the next round. Another important, high priority area for the Left is child protection. The primary service of municipal child protection has been strengthened in the last few years, which is what the left is said to be important. However, the left is in no way satisfied with the level and wants a much stronger bet in the municipalities. In the alternative budget, we are therefore increasing the fees for municipal child protection by 150 million. kr. In this area, perhaps the most enjoyable thing about an election result that gave a new plurality and new government, is that it can lead to a clean-up of private child protection services. There is little doubt that the terms and conditions of the contract and the holding of private operators have met for the last eight years, have directly exceeded the supply of some of the most vulnerable individuals for whom we share a shared responsibility: children and young people who experience failure in care. The needs for care are then complex and individual degrees. Then the offer must reflect it. Ideal and private actors are important and absolutely necessary supplements – not a problem. Moreover, it probably does not have the big budgetary implications of giving them better conditions. In conclusion, I would like to say very quickly that when it comes to the proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber, the following is in the left-hand position: Proposal No. 1, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of SV, we're going to vote against. Proposal No. 2, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, the Left will also vote against. I proposed that proposal No. 3 will be converted to a submit proposal. Then we can support it. If checked, the Left will not be moved against it. Proposal No. 4 is going to be supported by the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1501	If one really wants to reverse the equality in Norway, an increase in the kindergarten price, a reduction in the spring rate, and an increase in cash support is a good place to start. On the right-hand side of its budget, it is clear and clear that the reduction in the spring quota will lead to fewer fathers taking leave. That the mothers take longer leave, the government saves 35 million. kr per. The increase in cash support in the right-hand side of the budget will lead to several thousand fewer kindergartens – i.e. fewer children in kindergarten. They will thus be home – mostly with mother. Mother's presence at home saves the government $334 million. kr per. If we add to the increase in kindergarten prices, the decline in the maximum price, the government cancels the escalation of multiple kindergarten admissions this year, the government cuts massively into measures for better equality in the labour market, equal opportunities in municipalities and the creation of a regional equality system and cut off the work against sexual harassment, it is a reactionary, old-fashioned and backward policy for children and equality we see. What's the response? I'm proud to represent a party that has been a key factor in making Norway a more equal country. The maximum price and the right to babysitting area have allowed more than 60,000 children to participate in the important childcare provision. The birth rate has helped children to have a closer relationship with their fathers, and fathers claim to be at home. The reductions in cash support, combined with targeted measures such as free core time, have helped several mothers to become economically self-employed. Gender equality reforms in the last ten years have made Norway better for everyone. This has our reforms for the whole family. They have our good for children, fathers and mothers and no great support among the people most. Continued father's allowance and a bet on kindergartens rather than cash support have strong support in both LO and NHO. The 2013 survey also shows great progress when it relates to people’s confidence in their authorities’ work for gender equality. These reforms have changed our culture and contributed to increased value creation, better growth conditions and greater justice. It's this right-hand side is building down with this budget. It is a family and gender budget driven by ideological champions – not by new knowledge or popular demands. It is also not the first time that the right-hand side brakes the equality. They went against the maximum price in kindergarten and full kindergarten coverage in 2002, and they went against extended paper issue in 2009. Since the Right voted against extending the federal quota to ten weeks, the representative Olemic Thommessen stated that there should be limits to how we should govern the family's life with state arrangements. After this, at its national meeting, the Right decided to put the clock even further back in equality policy and also to remove the entire federal quota – against the voice of Erna Solberg. At the same time, they adopted major protests — from among others. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – to continue with cash support. This is how the Right ends up turning the clock back into equality policy. The progress party goes even further. They go against the gender equality law, they want to put down the gender equality and discrimination issue, they don't want to incorporate the UN Women's Convention and are generally against quotas as gender promotion measures. All of these suggestions are reactions on the left-hand side of their work for increasing equality. Throughout the argumentation, the left-hand side has gone too far in its zeal to create a more equal society. They have crossed the line, gone too far into their family or business or employment domain. In the last hundred years, the right-hand side has wanted to declare that the equality struggle in Norway is official. Equality does not come about by itself. It's happened through battle. Gong has repeatedly gone before the left side, and the right side has been opposed. The right-hand side is constantly turning the clock back into equality policy. That's probably a good example of this budget. When the reversal comes into effect next year, I think people will respond. I am therefore pessimistic for the next four years, but optimistic for the four years that come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1518	For a moment, I was a little bit in doubt about whether we were dealing with the supplementary proposal and the budget for 2014, or whether it was old party programmes we discussed. Children and families are different and they have different needs. The government will therefore pursue a family policy based on freedom of choice and flexibility. We respect different choices and trust that parents themselves can make choices that are best for themselves and their children. That is why we have proposed to change the length of the spring quota and the mother quota. This means that the majority is longer, and families are more able to choose for themselves which of them are going to take parental leave. The gender equality in Norway does not fall on four weeks of paper. For me and the government, it is important that the child does not lose valuable time with the parents. I therefore believe it is good for both children and parents that a smaller part of the social security period is bound up in allowances by the fact that we are now getting an increased share. That's a popular requirement. It's been a choice, this is politics and the voters have chosen a different family policy than the one we've had in the last eight years. There are values that the bourgeois parties are behind, and we are very happy that we can now get implemented. I am also pleased that today we are adopting a strengthening of the allocation of family protection in addition to that contained in the draft budget of the Stoltenberg II Government. We have found room for strengthening the prevention work of family protection services. Prevention and early family protection efforts may prevent life conflicts from developing. This is primarily about ensuring good child-growth conditions, but may also reduce the need for more comprehensive assistance from other services, such as: the protection of children. The strengthening by the government of the appropriations allocated to health centres and to the health-sisters is also important in the prevention work. We adopt a strengthening of the work of family protection services aimed at families with a high level of conflict, as well as a commitment to strengthen the provision of treatment to young violent people and children exposed to violence and sexual assault. The draft budget adopted today is a strengthening of the prevention of family policy. There has been a lot of good work in the field of child protection, for which there has been a cross-political agreement in this room over the last four years. A lot of the premises are in Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013, which was adopted before this year. Giving children a safe upbringing is one of society’s most important tasks. It's about our moral duty to protect children. Good and proper help for vulnerable children and young people brings great, good benefits, mainly for the individual, but not least in a socio-economic sense. Parents are the most important persons in a child’s life. When parents do not go to and need help to provide good care, child protection can contribute in various ways. Early efforts to get help to the families may mean that we avoid taking care of them. But even in those cases where the public has to take care of the children, parents have to be guaranteed help and support in a difficult time. One of the areas I'm very happy that we've been able to strengthen is child-restraint education. When we see that there is a field that the Stoltenberg II government has not managed to find money for, it is a pleasure to say that we have actually done so. There has been strong criticism from the National Audit Office of several years, and we know so much well that the child-restraints we have today are struggling in school and need extra strength there. Putting children living outside the home, in foster homes, is done very often. We have to make sure that we have enough foster homes for the children who need it. We also need to ensure that there is quality in the foster homes that we have, and not least follow-up of foster families and supervision in foster homes. The government therefore reinforces guidance from foster parents. We also want better guidance for foster parents, so that they are better equipped to take care of the individual foster children. Then we reduce the risk of foster homes breaking down and the child has to move. Last Tuesday, I was watching a movie called Talk About It! It's foster children with foster parents who have made a film that can easily make families talk to each other. So simple, but still so difficult in many cases. In 2014, we also propose that the municipality strengthen the supervision of children in foster homes. The Stoltenberg II government found only half-yearly money on the supervision adopted by the Stortinget a few months ago. That is why it is good that we in this government have strengthened our 15 - million oversight. kr, for we are impatient on behalf of the child-restraint children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1549	During the examination of the message of violence in close relations in May, the Right Party and the Progressive Party agreed on the importance of a comprehensive study on violence against children. The Right Party and the Advance Party proposed that the following be done immediately: ‘The government is asking for better and more continuous statistics on violence and abuse against children, including children as witnesses to violence.’ It was in May. The scope study has now been cancelled. What kind of knowledge has Horne got on this important topic that not the rest of us here in the Storting, and that now makes it not important or worth knowing anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1561	What I want to say first of all is that the government does not forget the children who have been subjected to violence and abuse – we are acting now. We have a lot of knowledge today about what actions work, and the government has prioritised money for concrete measures to help those children now. But then it's clear that we need to get more knowledge about this. I am very pleased that a national centre of expertise has also launched a competence acquisition on violence in close relationships, where children are also going to come in. We are going to come back to this, but the government has strengthened several items that apply to family protection services, prevention work, strengthening children who are exposed to violence and sexual abuse, including in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1568	In a letter of reply to questions from Rigmor Aasrud sent to the Committee today, the Council of State states that she supports the opposition's view in the claim that a reduction in the parental quota would lead to fewer men taking out a father's quota. It is black and white that an important basis for the calculation of how much you want to save on the government budget as a result of this conversion is that there are mothers who are currently taking out most of the parental leave days that are not a birthrate. And then you write in the supplementary proposition that you're ready to save 35 million. kr in 2014 because of this. Can the Council of States say anything about how these calculations have been made, all the time I would think that many of these fathers might not be up to date to take out the feather quota before 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1575	Now, probably, the representative of Grande has been involved in government work for quite a number of years and knows that the Directorate of Labour is doing these calculations, and the calculation that has now been done in terms of reducing the ratio of fathers is uncertain. It remains to be seen what kind of consequences it will have. What is certain is that this government has made an important effort to raise the common interest in parental leave, so that parents can now choose for themselves how to distribute these weeks. And then we'll see how that calculation works, and then the state council will come back to the Storting in review if it turns out that those calculations were wrong. I would encourage all the fathers out there to take as many weeks as their family finds out that is the right thing for their family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1583	With the fact that the Council of State itself was in the family and cultural committee last time, she probably remembers that the Christian People's Party called for a stability reform in child protection related to foster homes, because we saw that very many of the children for whom the authorities had taken responsibility moved very many times from foster homes to foster homes. The instability that was revealed led us to call for a stability reform in the field of child protection. There were not even good statistics on this. So my question to the council is, what will she do to create more stability, and to avoid having a situation where children have to move from foster home to foster home?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1590	I thank you for the question. That's absolutely true -- this is a concern that the bourgeois parties had for four years, as far as children that we see repeatedly have to move from one foster home to the other. It makes the impression when you see 12-year-olds who have moved between five and six foster families, and have failed to get stability and a better offer than they had before. It's up to the state to give these children when we take care of them. Now I've only been here for – soon – eight weeks, and have seen that we need to get a review of the balance that we have today between the use of foster homes versus institutions. Because what's important here is that the kids get the offer and the help that each child needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1599	In 2005, the five-week spring quota was set. Next year it will be in ten weeks. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think it was better the way it was in 2005, than it is in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1606	I am very pleased that in 2014 we are getting an increased share of the parental leave. We have one of the world's best parental leave schemes, with 49 or 59 weeks where families now get a larger share that they themselves can be allowed to divide. Then it has to be up to each and every family how they want to align themselves. I can assure the representative that the Council of State is very pleased with the budget decision that is in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1613	There have been several questions to the Minister about the federal quota in the weeks that have passed. In one of the following contexts, the Minister stated: "Let's hope now that it might be like this that men take more leave than women do." In general, SV can join the nominee, but it makes it very natural for me to ask the question: if it does not happen that the men who take a greater part of the leave will then, on the next occasion, the Minister, the next budget, take the initiative to reverse them now in the budget – i.e. they go back from ten weeks to fourteen weeks because they see that the effect of more men taking leave does not appear to be to turn on?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1625	I understand that the federal quota is engaged, and that it is hard for some representatives to realize that there has been a choice, and that there is now a civil government that has said clearly in its government platform – all four of them together – that the federal quota should be 10 weeks, while the parental leave will be the total weeks. I'm very happy that we've got that in place. I can assure the representative that there will be no further changes in the weeks in the next year's budget. What is very clear is that I trust that the families themselves will be able to distribute the weeks – the good leave that we have – between themselves. Then I want to say that it is surprising how small the opposition believes that fathers will take out several weeks. It's up to the family itself. Mom and Dad can sit around the kitchen bench and distribute these weeks, without us politicians going in and overrun it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1632	That belief is the government that doesn't have, when you add it cut to 35 million. NOK 130 million. NOK when this is allowed to work. So it's not we who don't have faith in fathers – it's the government that doesn't have that faith. I am recording that State Council Horne said in her post that there is an increased commitment to child protection in the municipalities. I expect that Councillor Horne will use that effort to explain her child protection policy in the future. But my question concerns the child's rights for Svalbard and Finnmark. There the government showed action. They cut it - 80 million. kr in savings – and have sent a letter to the Committee that a legislative change is needed, so that this will not work until 1 April. Is it not then a problem in the calculation - the Council of State is not missing 20 million. Do you really want to delete this item? And why hasn't it been put into the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1641	There were many things to address the question asked by the representative. Let me first say that municipal child protection has been important for all the parties in the Stortinget in recent years, and I am pleased with the strengthening that was within the Stoltenberg II government, and that we maintain, of the municipal child protection service. Then we've strengthened child-restraint education, and we've also strengthened supervision beyond what the Stoltenberg II government provided. So the question from the representative about the swallowbard plug-in and the Finnmark plug-in. I think we should remember why the swallowbard plug-in and the Finnmark plug-in came into place. It was because of the relocation, and because of the income that those regions had. Now it's clear that the median income for these areas is above the national average, and it was then right for the government to cut that supplement so that we would have an equal child benefit rate for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1653	I registered that the Minister for the Child did not answer the question I had, so she might later today be able to explain where the 20 million. kr is – those which she lacks in her calculation when the execution of the cut cannot take place until 1 April. 7 000 fewer children receive nursery services with the budget of the Solberg government than with the budget of the Stoltenberg government. In 6,500 kindergartens, parents are informed that the maximum price is no longer the one they were proposed and that new and increased monthly costs are now involved. It shows a clear difference between the new and old government. We propose to build kindergartens next year, the new government proposes more cash support. We want more admissions in kindergartens, the new government will keep one. We want cheaper kindergartens, the new government provides more expensive. The increase of the Stoltenberg government of 2 900 kindergartens to start the process of escalating to two kindergartens this year disappeared as a buffer for the sun to finance increased cash support and unfair tax cuts. In the financial position, the allocation is cut to 4,100 existing sites to finance more cash support. The majority of the population sees that this provides freedom of choice for families with children. But how can fewer kindergartens give more freedom of choice? It applies to those who will use the cash support, yes. But what choices does it give to those who want a kindergarten? Here you should be able to choose between cash support – and cash support. In the last eight years, 63 000 new kindergartens have been built in Norway. It has given all children who are 1 year old before 1 September to a nursery place. But also many of those that turn out one year after that date will have space. There has been no lack of colorful descriptions from Right-wing politicians who have described today's system. Women’s political spokesperson Hofstad Helleland has stated that today’s system has expired on date. Right then, you might be able to expect action from the government. The allocation to new places was a good start to give parents with one-year-olds freedom in everyday life to combine care and professional activity. Kindergartens are and become important to parents who want to work, and we need young children's parents in the workplace. In the debate here in the Grand Chamber, we have heard several representatives from the government parties define how to solve challenges for parents with one-year-olds who want kindergarten. For example, the right-wing parliamentary leader has: launched the idea that municipalities should bring up children as spaces become vacant. Yes, it is very good to say about the proposal – so of course it has also been implemented too far. It can hardly be described as a new idea. My daughter got e.g. one such place – 23 years ago. Few municipalities, if any, have no advice or desire to keep up with vacant kindergartens. So I'm now challenging the Council of States to clarify how he sees fit to solve the lack of space, without meaning any more spaces. I have heard the Council of Education say that the government is putting competences ahead of new places, and I agree that more skills are needed in kindergartens. That's why they added 40 million. kr i Prop. 1 S. And it's good that it's going to be 10 million. Add kr. But you couldn't have financed the tens of millions with a little bit less tax credits for those who have 2 million. kr or more in income, and did not send the bill to the toddlers? The bill is sent to those in line and to those small children’s parents who already have a kindergarten. 7 000 fewer kindergartens are described by the Right fiscal spokesman, Svein Flätten, as a positive side-effect and a clear element contributing to the priorities set out in the budget. And the Progress Party Gjermund Hagesetter says that you always look at net costs and savings. This is, to put it mildly, an eye-catching statement – and not least an expression of an old-fashioned and immature policy. I would challenge the Minister to respond to whether this is representative of the government's views on the need for jobs, and whether such assessments should be used as a basis for further work on the development of welfare schemes. When the government's fiscal figure says savings in kindergartens are considered a positive effect, it must be seen as an attack on important values in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1680	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, has now taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1683	We're just finished with the cultural debate, and we learned from it that culture is in several areas, so I allow myself to start with a poem: ‘eight eyes in each other. Four mouths around a table. Four walls around a happiness: Wesla, Easter, father and mother. Eight hands hooked together to a ring about large and small. Oh, my God – if the whole world was so good.” Einar Schråsen's poem "Luck" well describes the essence of the family. But families are not the same. They can consist of different people, different numbers of adults and children, they are not bound by biology and extend over generations – but at their very best bound together by love. The family is one of many communities that together make up our society. The family is an important bearer of tradition and culture, and at its best it provides a safe and secure framework for children's growth and adult life. So it happens that some families don't work. Children experience insecure adults who have enough problems of their own, adults who do not play the parenting role — and some experience adults who are evil. Children have only one childhood, and it's the duty of all adults to tell if you're worried. Children who can't trust their family need other adults who see. The Government Platform is aware that child protection and family protection are important tasks. Children who have been seen, and who have come under the care of child protection, shall meet a level that is predictable and flexible, and who are willing to use all good forces, both private and public, to find the perfect place for this child. So instead of parents, child protection, along with foster parents or other adults, has to be superparents. And if there's something superparents should be good at, it's giving children support so that they get through an education cycle. We know that we're going to give children a good platform to live a good adult life, this is very important. Then it becomes strange that you fail right here – that the Riksrevision has strong comments about the educational cycle for children, especially for children in institutions. I heard a story at a seminar I was at, about a young boy – he was 17 years old – who had a very demanding family situation. He asked for homework – a 17-year-old asked for homework. But what he was told by child protection was that he could not get it. He could get a companion to go to the movies with. We can't have it that way. That's why I'm very happy that we've found room to strengthen the budget by 10 million. In addition to the strengthening we are doing in our education budget, targeted measures to improve the adaptability of children in the field of child protection. We need high ambitions on behalf of all children, so that the vulnerable children too can fulfill their future dreams. Fortunately, most families create a secure network of adults and children, and in those cases we, as politicians, should know to set limits on politics. We're going to create the good and flexible arrangements to provide help when needed. The cooperation agreement and the government platform state that the parental leave should now be simplified. We're going to keep a designation of the permit, but the common period is increasing by eight weeks. We give more flexibility to families that need it. We will provide for a trust-based exemption scheme based on objective criteria for families that do not fit into the schedule. Being able to be at home with their children in the early days is a fantastic good for us parents, but most of all for the children. The problem is that the family doesn't fit into the social-democratic template, parties in this room want to maintain a system that makes you lose your leave period. It means, as I see it, punishing the children. And that's not good family policy in my eyes or in the eyes of the government. Family and family protection are areas where, as politicians, we balance the delicate border between politics and the private sphere. It's also an area where time doesn't play on our team. A childhood is so fast, and damage can be irreparable. The debate in the last few days has shown how important it is that adults are actually good role models for children and young people. I will therefore end my post not with a crunchy political point, but with a call to all adults out there: Let this be the day you make sure that all your children's friends come on birthday. Let this be the day you actually report your concern to child protection, because you have had a long-term murmuring in your stomach that affects one of the children in the kindergarten. Let this be the day you see a child and change his or her future to something better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1744	One area for which the Committee is also responsible is consumer policy – an important area for those living in Norway and for each individual consumer. I want the Council of State to take this into account in its further work in the field of consumers, for the freedom of individuals and the freedom to choose must be fundamental values for a consumer. The government will base its policy on the belief in individuals and on the power of the consumer through the market, and these are the basic principles that the government should work with. Now, at Christmastime, all of these examples show that the big store chains are among the biggest quarrel fans in the business world – it's electro chains, it's furniture chains, and it's sports chains – it's not easy to be a consumer, according to the Evening Post. There have been unusually many complaints lately. It is almost not a week without complaints from the actors. Stakeholders complain about each other’s marketing and consumers complain about the actors. Lawyers are used over a low shoe. Is that the kind of market we want? This may be due to tougher competition in the market, combined with close follow-up and penalties by the Consumer Ombudsman, which should be the voice of consumers. You often find that the actors, especially the big players, are very concerned about what everyone else is doing. They complain about each other, but have little focus on the customer. What is a sale, a real sale? Is that a yellow poster on which it's sold? They market the sale without actually putting the price down, without stating what the price discount is – in size, in kroner and ears. I believe the scope of illegal marketing would be lower if the actors were just as busy cleaning their own house as they are looking for faults from others, and if they had the customer in focus. They use time and legal powers to review the marketing of others. It is striking that there is so much illegal marketing in the industry when everyone supposedly believes that their marketing is legal. I would encourage customers to have a healthy scepticism for sales campaigns, yellow ads and yellow posters. They must not take for granted that the goods being advertised are actually put down in price. But what should the customer believe in? There's a responsibility. The best tip – the best Christmas tip now – must be to compare prices between shops and use their market power to choose which store to shop in. But we have to look forward. Is the price really as good as it looks? What can the Storting do? What can the government do? What can the Council of State do? What can we do to ensure the consumer? We have to tell what is the consequence for the actors. There must be consequences and they should be notified to the Consumer Ombudsman if they do not behave properly. Norwegian customers are not to be fooled. It might seem that this is something we should be looking at. We should look at sanctions possibilities. They may be too weak for the Consumer Ombudsman. The cross-section is that after a business cleaning in between, as we can also read in the big newspapers, it only goes a few years before we're back where we were, and the big chains have to shake their ears again. In order to ensure the services of citizens in the municipality, I have realized that the government will develop a framework that can be used for the introduction of free user choice, i.e. a better offer in the municipality and not least the security that the municipalities provide the services they are to provide. Competition contributes to the efficient use of societal resources, keeps costs down and promotes innovation. But the most important thing I think the Council of State should take with it is the safety and security of the local authorities and consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1767	Policies are gradually being built. Family policy is a very good example of this – it has been built and built and built. When you look at Norwegian family policy, you can see that it has been a successful project. It can be seen that the birth rate in Norway is relatively high to be a Western country, a well-developed country with a good economy. Many choose to have children and combine them with their careers. It's been a common political project. In the last eight years, the baby hail lift was the largest project we had. It also came from a common wish in Stortinget that we should do it. We were able, thanks to strong political will, to build over 60,000 new kindergartens. It cost a lot of money, but we have built it together. In the same period, we managed to keep the prices of use of kindergartens down by having a maximum price. It has also been a successful project. I think it's a pity that the government and the majority are now going away from the maximum price policy we've had, because I think it's been a wise and good priority that we've managed gradually to do it cheaper. Now it gets a little bit more expensive, you'll gradually make it more expensive. I think it's been a good idea that we've managed to make it progressively cheaper. Then was the next project we had on kindergarten policy, that one should get two admissions a year. It could be expected that the new government would also support when you saw the statements to the Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen in the election campaign, where she was a strong spokeswoman for continuous admission, and you have heard Righteous debate earlier, where they have been strong spokespersons for continuous admission. Then it's amazing, with the election promises you gave, that you go away from it and go back to one annual recording. That's the opposite of what you promised. Then there's the cash support, which also more and more parties are starting to own. It came under the central government – the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – which was the architect of the cash support. When it became red-green government, it was predicted that the cash support would be gone – there were very many strong doomsday prophecies about the cash support. The Central Party and I believe that we carried out a successful reform with regard to cash support, that we focused it on the smallest children. For that is where the need has been greater, and we saw, after changing the cash support scheme, that the use of cash support increased, that more people wanted to spend more time with the smallest children when we increased the amount. We in the Center Party are familiar with what is happening on cash support now, when it is targeted at 1-year-olds, because then we see that you do not get many of the side effects you also know that the cash support has contributed to. So the target alignment and the model that the red-green government actually added up to is the one that's now being passed on. But we believe that it is unwise to introduce cash support for two- and three-year-olds, because we see that the cash support, like all other policies, has several sides. We believe that the solution we have is a relatively good solution. Then there has been a focus in our family policy, and also in the red-green government, on how to spend more time with the smallest children. I think there's going to be a lot of trenches here, because when discussing parental leave, you should also take into account that we have extended the total length of parental leave. One thing was that we strengthened fathers' rights, but we also increased the total length of the family, if I don't remember wrong, by six weeks. This means that several people have had the opportunity to stay longer at home, and we also had a cash support solution, so that those who needed it could be a little longer at home when the child was at least. It has been a political priority. Therefore, of course, I am glad that today's government does not go back on that priority. I'm also glad that what was seen as very unwise, that we increased the feather quota, now is common policy. When you see what the Progress Party really thought about the feather quota, it is by ten weeks completely reprehensible when you read some of the statements the Progress Party has had before. But now the doubling that will be next year compared with 2005, is common policy. It shows how policies are gradually being built, how we have made many improvements in many areas that are going to stand, even with the adjustments that are now. For the main lines of family policy under this budget, the lines followed by the red-green priority are for eight years. And then we also got an inheritance, of course, on which we build. But family policies are among the areas that have really been prioritised, and there has been a lot of money spent on them through the kindergarten reform. It has been a really big and heavy reform, which I believe has been successful. Then I hope, because this year the budget has actually been a little older than the fact that there has been no special effort in family policy, that we will continue to give priority to family policy in the future. It's a very good future investment, and it's a very good investment that many want to combine family life with work, and that we have good arrangements for the very least children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1784	You should consider investing in faster speaking time adjustment on Stortinget – I think it could save us a lot of valuable time! Time is money! Work on developing the knowledge nation Norway starts in kindergarten. Kindergarten is the first paragraph of the education cycle and can make a difference for a good childhood, but also for further education and working life. Sometimes it sounds like there's been a full war on kindergarten policy all along. That's not true. In fact, there has been quite a consensus on kindergarten policy, and I am glad that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum also underlined here that we have had a red-green government that has run the cash support as a premise for eight years. The inter-political child hail lift, which in its time was initiated by the Stortinget, came under the Bondevik II government. It has also provided almost full coverage in kindergartens, and that is good and important. But now is the time to think about the content and quality of the offer. The child care policy of this government is precisely based on the two pillars, quality and content. It also characterizes the budget next year. It is tempting to repeat a red-green classic and say that there has never been more money allocated to kindergartens than during this government. That would be quite right, but at the same time, this government has ambitions not only to grant money, but to look at the content and what we actually get back for the money. The qualifications and knowledge of kindergarten employees – that is, what we fill in the kindergarten with – are the basis for a good childcare facility. Both national and international research suggests that there is a large and important difference between the employees. We know that many kindergartens today are struggling with pedagogical shortages. It affects the quality – let there be no doubt about it. It's not done in a hand turn to get many thousands of kindergarten teachers. Several people have to apply for kindergarten teacher training, either at an ordinary time or on part-time work-based training. We also need to stimulate more good assistants to become child workers and youth workers, perhaps taking the step further up. Strengthening vocational and vocational training can make a good contribution here. For 2014, the appropriation for competence and recruitment in kindergarten is 170 million. kr. It is a strengthening compared to the draft budget presented by the Red-Greens. In particular, we have wanted to strengthen management training for directors because good and competent pediatricians are essential for developing good pediatric facilities. We are therefore following up the competence strategy for kindergarten, and the means of competence for 2014 will be followed by a long-term initiative, including increasing the number of workplace-based kindergarten teacher training places by up to 200 places, increasing the number of management training places for managers by up to 340 places, establishing vocational education provision in the field of education, and strengthening kindergarten-based competence development measures and the basic child care package for unskilled assistants. We will also – for another year – continue the recruitment campaign The world's finest position, simply because we need more applicants for the world's finest position. At the same time, this government also has some other clear priorities, and one of them is that we should take one more step towards ending the unfair lack of equal treatment for children in private and public kindergartens. We do that by increasing the minimum grant to non-municipal kindergartens, with effect from 1 August next year. This is important because we know that there are differences in kindergartens in Norway. There are also quality differences, and with a better and more equal economy, we expect the private kindergartens, which can sometimes be a little bit behind, for example. in the case of adult densities, take important steps in the right direction. The maximum price has been proposed. This means that parents really – as a proportion of their wages, if they participate in the normal wage increase – will not pay more than they did in 2013. It is important to stress that the reduction in the maximum price carried out by the previous government resulted in higher income families having a greater reduction in the cost of kindergarten than low income families, i.e. more government funds and most for those who had the most in the past. It is not the policy of this government. We believe kindergarten is incredibly important. This is precisely why we want to encourage more people with a difficult economic background to go to kindergarten, and we are going to do so by proposing a broader and better social profile of parental pay than today. This is our first nursery budget. The ambitions of kindergarten are great, but we're not just going to think about quantity, we're going to think about quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1812	It's going to be line change. Otherwise, the president must take to the presidency to get a bigger motor on the pulpit!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1817	The majority of the Committee, in its main comment, writes: ‘increased non-discrimination will contribute to the smoothing of differences in quality between municipal and private kindergartens as a result of different manning, skills and pay and working conditions’. [[...]] Does this mean that the Council of State expects the increase from 96 to 98 pst. will there be exactly equality in manpower, competence and pay and working conditions? And what kind of grip will the Council of State do to ensure that this happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1827	What we expect is based on conversations with important non-municipal kindergarten organisations. They just point to the discrimination in grants as one of the reasons why there may be varying quality between kindergartens in Norway. Now it is important to stress that it is not consistent that private kindergartens have low quality and high quality public kindergartens. Here's a very big difference. But this could be one important step on the way. Then we also carry out a review of the framework plan and kindergarten law. We're also going to be very clear that kindergarten is an important arena for learning – through play, not as a school. Getting better economic conditions also means that you can expect more of what comes back. In addition, there is a point in the Manning Standards Platform, but it is linked to the year 2020. However, it is clear that there is one step closer to the possibility of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1838	We have often heard that it has been busy in the government offices after you got in, and that you have not been able to differentiate the parental payment in the kindergartens, as promised in advance. Nor has it been possible to contribute to flexible babysitting, which we all understood was one of the priority tasks of a new government. On the other hand, there has been an increase in the nursery price, which has not been promised, and there has been an increase in the subsidy for private kindergartens of 67 million. NOK; there was no problem. Doesn't that mean you've jerked off what you wanted to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1843	I guess that's what you could call a rhetorical question, and the answer to that is no. But it suggests that the government has had some very important priorities, which have also been implemented in a short time. As I now spent five minutes talking about, it's especially about quality and content. I believe that equal treatment between public and private kindergartens is part of it, and part of it, but also that we are both continuing the competence strategy and putting on a little, in order to strengthen what we think is an important part of it. In the case of continuous recording, or more flexible babysitting, I believe that the model presented by the Stoltenberg government would be expensive. You can imagine that this would give you two months of extra babysitting, and how much that would matter. It would be billions. And when you do it through a rigid and bureaucratic model that many municipalities warn against, it was natural for us to go back and look at it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1850	In the nursery service, an estimate has been made of how much it will cost to be admitted to kindergartens on an ongoing basis. The figure in the nursery school report, which came a year ago, was about 1.4 billion. kr. So it shows that it's possible to do it if you want. I have to wonder that a party that has been in opposition for eight years, and to the extent that one has a lot of new ideas, has not thought about how to implement such a project, when one has been so clear about promising the electors before entering the government offices. So my question is, what do you have in mind to solve this with rolling recordings, except that you need new places?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1860	It's not like the Right Party and the Advance Party haven't thought about it, but I'm going to admit one thing, and it's that we haven't thought about how we're going to do it in two months. But that we'll come back to it in a suitable way, I've said several times in this hall. And then I'm kind of jumping over the description that you can get to 1.4 billion. kr, and that you can do it if you want to. Should it then be interpreted as if the outgoing Stoltenberg government did not want two recordings a year, because it was not added 1.5 billion. kr to two recordings a year? It was added a couple of hundred million, to be a little upresis. This suggests that the representative of Aasrud must be interpreted so that the red-green government would not have two recordings. I think that's a strange reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1867	It must be pointed out that the Council of State has not read the budget that he has as the basis for his work for next year, because it is quite clear in that budget that what we have put in now was two months; it was the beginning of what was going to be two entries. We were also clear that it would cost more money, and that was what we were prioritizing now. We had put a race where all the 1-year-olds and the oldest children had had a kindergarten, and now you were going to start here. So it's hard for me to realize that you can make an offer for new kindergartens, if that's what you want, except that you need more money and more places. This is where I think the Red Isaac should explain to us what he thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1874	I am very pleased that the representative drills into it, but first and foremost I think that the model that the red-greens produced is unnecessarily bureaucratic and unnecessary rigidity, that it becomes expensive and probably gives less flexibility than the other models can provide. But as I said, that's something we'll come back to. I am therefore sure to have the pleasure to discuss this several times with the representative Aasrud and others in this room, but when it comes to going something closer to discussions about what we think, I think the right and proper way to do it is to get back to Stortinget when the government has done that job. But that the new government is not locking itself into a policy for which it has not been, cannot come as a surprise to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1881	The Christian People's Party is also very concerned that we get a running intake in kindergarten as quickly as possible. Now the government, together with the cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been given increased cash support, to NOK 6000 a month, for children between one and two years of age, which is likely to lead to a slight decline in demand for kindergarten places. The question is, how are we going to use the action space that arises from the fact that the demand for nursery places will go down somewhat? Do you want to use that space for action to look at the possibility of getting a continuous recording – that is, using the space for action to start – or will this only mean that the transfer to the municipalities will be slightly smaller?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1890	When it comes to that question, I think it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One is if it was the government's policy to say that those who today have rights attached to kindergartens are not going to get it, because we're subtracting that number of places. It's not the government's policy. The government's policy is that those who have the right to babysitting – as today – will have children's playgrounds. That's the one thing. It's important, and it's an important political principle that we stand at 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. So to the number. two – a calculated effect of another type of increased cash support. It is similar to 2012. I checked the numbers a little bit. After the increase in cash support for children aged 13-18 months in 2012, i.e. under the red-green government, the proportion of 1-year-olds in kindergarten fell from 70.9 to 69.6 pst. What has now been included in the budget is an estimated decrease. This also means that if there are other results, you may need to go back and consider the calculations again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1899	I've been hanging out a little bit about this with the non-communal kindergartens. Private kindergartens are so many – someone is commercial, someone is family driven, etc. There's a lot of chatter here. The government's goal to treat these as equivalent to 100 pst. dimension – 100 pst. non-discrimination. Here in this budget one goes from 96 pst. equal treatment to 98 pst. non-discrimination. In an answer to questions from the Labour Party, the Minister says that the reason why there are differences is that the non-municipal kindergartens are cheaper, because they have fewer children with special needs, they have lower crews, and they have poorer pension schemes. Want 100 pst. non-discrimination – up to and including 98 pst. – means that one will set greater requirements for, for example: better pension schemes for those added to the non-municipal kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1908	I am pretty sure the pension system is not below. At least I think so. I get corrected if I am wrong, and the pension system is under another government council. But I can generally say that there is a difference between pension systems in the public and private sectors. There is a much broader issue than the pension system in the nursery sector. So if you're going to do something about it, you can go back to what the previous Labour and Social Committee said – it was a collective labour and social committee, as far as I remember – that it should be an objective to have greater harmonisation between public and private pension systems. There is an important point in this regard. Then I want to say that increasing, moving closer, non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens, does not exclude other changes in kindergarten. I have already said that it means at least an expectation that you should also use this for the benefit of parents and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1915	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1918	For the Workers' Party, family policy has been a continuous freedom project. Stone by stone has been taken by family policy to ensure the greatest possible degree of individual freedom for each individual and the greatest possible freedom for each family. It is recognised that the freedom of families depends to a large extent on the policies and policies of each country. We are not going to go far down the European continent until we see how politics – or lack of such – gives itself direct expression at both the birth rate, in the fundamental freedom of people and in the ability of people to make their own choices. I want to go as far as saying that family policy, at least to Prop. 1 S, has been an outstanding international success, a social democratic success, which has first of all been about a fundamental freedom for the obvious – for life, health, maternity care, work, housing, safe economic governance – all that basically ensures that one can feel some security for everyday life, but also about, and that is perhaps where one sees a clearer distinction politically, the view of a working life that protects the family, the possibility of combining work and care, how one looks at whether one should have a full-time bet over part-time, fixed positions as the main rule rather than increased bet in temporary jobs, and whether one has a working life that equals mothers and fathers as carers. Furthermore, it is about the extent to which large-scale society operates with both a red and flexible parental pension scheme – as we do in Norway – and a kindergarten at a low price – as we do in Norway. We have even seen interviews with people in Spain, Italy and a number of European countries where it is openly said that there is simply no dare to have children, while in Norway we have a relatively high birth rate compared to all, most countries, because people have basic security, and because you know that there is a combination of work and care. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen was at the beginning of his speech a little simple in his attempt to present it as that family policy, or – perhaps more specifically – child care policy, there has been a consensus in Norwegian policy. Yes, it is possible that several political parties have been in favour of full child care coverage, but it is essential whether you spend the money on tax cuts, or whether you spend the money on giving priority to full child care coverage. It was not until we received the red-green government – which gave priority to money in kindergarten – that for the first time you received full child care coverage. It was not until the red-green government laid down the goal of the right to kindergarten, that that right was guaranteed for all. We have also ensured that the maximum price has remained. It's been important to many families. Our freedom is about the possibility to choose a job and care, while the freedom of the right is about choosing a job or care. What are the small grips that the government takes, but that in the long term can still be important? Well, it's cut in cardboard, which prevents several fathers from having the opportunity to choose to be at home. Higher kindergarten prices are introduced, making it more difficult for more people. It introduces more rigid legislation than it was foreseen in Prop. 1 S, and money is spent on cash support rather than making life easier for families with young children. I think that's sad. It's an unfortunate development, because it makes life considerably more difficult for many families with young children, and it makes more families have to choose a job or care.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1933	We are in the middle of a celebration for the trade in goods. It's a lot to enjoy when it comes to Christmas and the purchases we make to please our closest. But some dangers threaten: it is important that consumers not only have good information about the goods and services they buy, but also know the rights and obligations they have in connection with the purchases. In addition, it is important that there are good arrangements to resolve conflicts between the buyer and the seller. Laws and regulations must take consumer interests into account in a good and balanced manner. The expectation of new sales records is high in the retail trade during these Christmas seasons. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, monitor closely the evolution of the number of debt collection and settlement cases and conduct a responsible policy. Too many people take Christmas on credit, unfortunately. The working party has called for the establishment of a public debt register to provide banks and others with credit access to information on the debts of individuals with other credit institutions in the event of credit ratings. The scheme shall relate to the credit to individuals who are not recorded in other registers. These are typically credit card debts and consumer loans. The purpose is to address serious debt problems by preventing individuals from taking on more borrowing and credit liabilities than they can serve. The high consumption we have also gives us environmental and ethical challenges. If a few are to be used more ethically and environmentally soundly, it must be easy for the consumer to make ethical and environmentally sound choices in everyday life. The consumer has the right to know about the product, for example: has been provided by underpaid workers or has harmful consequences for the environment and health. Many consumers are engaged in providing information on unacceptable conditions, for example: the production of goods we surround ourselves with daily. The Council of Consumers’ application on paraben content created a problem among manufacturers when it was launched, while consumers appreciated it. The financial portal is also an instrument for finding the best banking and insurance contracts in the market. Important bets on such portals have been contributed by the red-green government. This means that the Consumer Council and the Consumer Ombudsman can be pre-eminent in their efforts to safeguard the consumer rights of people. I'm excited about what the Consumer Council will do to secure the consumer rights for all of us. In any case, I can say that the market cannot operate on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1950	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1954	I am pleased that the new government is continuing the important bet that the red-green government had when it comes to power in close relations. Since election in close relations is a political task of several departments, I am very happy to be able to speak even with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Knowledge here today. I have also made contributions to the budget debate of my own committee, the Committee on Justice, on the importance of all of us being concerned and caring about this important issue. It's one concern I have, and it's that the cross-political desire that we formulated here in the Storting in May, when it comes to the need for more knowledge and statistics for power-proposed children, does not relate to the additional proposition of the new government. For under the budget of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, I am concerned about the proposed cut. One suggests that the scope of the study of the choice and abuse of children will be removed in 2014 and the introduction of the Children’s Chat, which was set up to develop a common training programme and joint training for different disciplines in the municipalities to talk to children about choice and sexual abuse, has not been proposed in 2014. This is in stark contrast to the position and wish of the Judicial Committee during the examination of the notification of the election in close relations in May of this year. Then a joint committee wrote: 'The Committee will stress the need for statistics on violence against children'. The Progress Party and the Right promote even an own proposal in which they asked the government to 'provide better and more continuous statistics on violence and abuse against children, including children as witnesses to violence'. It's a shame it's so fast either to forget or to change. I think it's unfortunate that a well to go away from this. I also react to the comments of the majority of the family committee when one calls our proposal for more knowledge and competence for "symbol allocation". I just want to say that giving important tools and training to teachers, adding kindergartens and adding them to the SFO is not a symbol policy and is not a symbol allocation. It is not without reason that UNICEF Norway has been crystal clear in the Justice Committee and other committees when it comes to these measures. I would have wished that one had changed his mind in this field. It bothers me when I hear that State Council Solvency Horne apparently thinks that there is enough knowledge in this area, and that one will only act. I mean, it's important that we do both. We were several cross-political in May that, in order to put in place the right actions, we depend on more knowledge and better statistics in this serious and important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1967	There has been a lot of talk about child protection in this debate as well, and I am very pleased about that. In the last period, the Christian People's Party took the initiative in the issue of child protection. We hoped we could make a promise by 2017, where the goal was for all children who need child protection to be able to get help at the right time. It's a cross of thought that we've managed to give every child a place in the nursery, but giving every child a good home is not yet clear. That's why I hope there's still going to be a big focus on child protection in the time that's coming, because we see that the number of children who need child protection help, and all the issues that are being reported, is increasing, and it's increasing in time that's gone. Therefore, it is important that we do not lose focus, but continue to focus on this important area. Children are primarily children, and they deserve the best we can give them. I am also very pleased with the signals that the Council of State gave on my question about the stability of children entering foster homes, and that the Council of State wants to look at the balance between good foster homes and institutional places. Some of the reasons for this could be that children entering a foster home might have needed an institution site with good care and safe adults. I welcome the work that the Council of State is going to do in that area. I need to link some comments to something I was also in my first post, this with the one-time benefit. I expressed that we have greater ambitions than the one thousand dollar we got for this time. We have a desire to raise the one-time benefit to 2 G. I am a little surprised by the Workers' Party, which is not involved in the increase of the one-off benefit, and you refer to the line of work. I don't quite understand. The lump-sum benefit is provided to women who, for some reason, are out of work. Among other things, very many of these women are students who take an education to just fill the workline and the idea around it – they're going to work. I am amazed that the Workers' Party is using the working line as an argument to be against increasing the one-time benefit. Does the Labour Party believe that women should preferably not give birth until they have been in work and have grown up to be a parent?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1978	The red-green government stressed the development of a knowledge-based child protection system where concrete targets were mentioned in the bill on changes in the bare-back legislation that was discussed in the Stortinget on 10 June 2013. The red-green government’s child-restraint lift includes, among other things: helped municipalities to strengthen the child protection service with 850 new posts from 2010 to 2013. The number of children who need help has increased for each year. Nevertheless, there are still municipalities that do not comply with all legal requirements. But the initiative is an important start for the further development of child protection. I'm worried when I read the comments in the budget setting. The first concern relates to the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector. The cooperation agreement between the country and the non-profit sector on the provision of services in the health and social field was concluded on 3 October 2012. The Central Party welcomes the recognition, strengthening and visibility of the important role played by non-profit actors in the Norwegian welfare state, including in the field of child protection. The cooperation agreement deals with the principle of quality, good use of public resources, long-term, prudent and independent, lack and dialogue. The dialogue between the red-green government and the non-profit sector has provided the basis for discussing and seeking solutions to key issues such as postponing competition and the pension costs of non-profit organisations. The non-profit sector has expressed concern at the increase in the budget of the Health and Welfare Committee that the new government will not extend this cooperation agreement. There is reason for concern, because in the setting of the family and cultural budget, the government party, the Right and the Progress Party, does not go into the comment of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party that the new government should join the Cooperation Agreement and pass it on. I would like to ask the State Council to confirm or confirm whether the new government will continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector. My other concern is that the non-profit sector will experience a tougher supply system with the new government. Within the framework of the public procurement legislation, it is possible to limit the supply competition to non-profit organisations. But the Right and Advance parts do not join a note about this in the option. Thus, there may be an extended competition for the non-profit sector in the field of child protection, so that one has to compete with commercial providers that have other pension costs. I expect the Council of State to confirm or confirm that the government will withdraw from the system of own supply contests for non-profit providers within the framework of child protection. Finally, I would like to say that I am actually satisfied with one measure in this budget, which is decided upon. This is due to the increase in one-time pay. Arguing that this threatens the taskbar will be too easy. This is money that will benefit the families of children who, for various reasons, are in a situation where they are not entitled to the payment of parental leave. Here I am in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e1995	First I just want to say that we say yes to that proposal no. 3 transmitted. High-quality institutional areas are important in the area of child protection. There they take care of children in vulnerable situations, and there children can live and try to get their everyday lives back on the straight track. The working party is occupied by enough places, but believes that the capacity of public institutions should be used first. The ideal and private sector are important supplements. Interestingly, the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, believe that they will use everything of satisfactory capacity without any increase in the post office. We believe that this should be achieved, there needs to be more money for it. Also, within the State Children's Protection Agency, government parties are engaged in the use of private suppliers and their equality. They criticise the cooperation agreement, on which the representative Toppe was also involved, between the state and the non-profit sector that was concluded by the red-green government. On the contrary, we believe that it should be further developed and improved, and we do not want it to be profitable and commercial actors in child protection. Family protection has been boasted in the clouds here today, and that's good. But there is also a place where it was cut without the post being filled in. This is where all the use of good family protection capacity, including private and non-profit activities, is to be used. This means that the existing measures under the auspices of the Church’s Family Advisory Office — which is good — need to be reduced. It's a little strange by the Christian People's Party believes that this is the right way to go. I think it's interesting to hear Horne's response to the scope study. The same knowledge that you had in May, you have in December. They were not satisfied with what they knew in May, but they are satisfied with what they know now – and can put in what they think is right. They know what the scale is, they don't have to know anymore. There's clearly a difference between what you want to know when you're in opposition and what you know when you're in position. It is also interesting to hear the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, in the case of two babysittings. I think he should ask his representative Hofstad Helleland, who when they were in opposition stood here and had the answers and the solutions. I ask him to hear with her if not the solution she had when she was in opposition, can not be used when she is in position – for at that time they would start quite quickly with two babysittings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2014	The Norwegian model would be completely unmistakable without the large professional participation of Norwegian women. In the 1970s, female participation was 50 pst. Today she's 75 pst. That's 16 pst. higher than the average in the OECD. Had Norwegian women worked on average as in OSED, i.e. 16 pst. less than they do today, the corresponding loss of production would be the same as the entire Norwegian oil industry. In other words, what characterises the success of the Norwegian economy is not primarily oil; it is much more women's professional participation. This is why, with Kristin Forest Lund, the NHO said no to cash support and yes to a father's allowance. Her founding is very simple: women need work, and working life needs both sexes. That's the simple perspective that the NHO has, and that SV ends up strongly about. In addition, as we know, female participation is a strengthening of self-employment and a propensity for equal rights in working life. 449 million. These are the cuts that the government is now making with regard to kindergartens by going away from two recordings, and by calculating what the spring quota will result from reduced orbital areas – 449 million. kr. 449 million. kr is a very socio-economic perspective on what children's playgrounds represent for society. Reduction in kindergarten places will largely mean that women will be at home. It will reduce female participation. That's why I think the budget that this government is presenting is a small step and a small blow to the Norwegian model, as well as being a blow to the equality struggle in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2027	Herbjørg Wassmos Dina is a strong woman. She's the family's head in spite of the fact that the world around doesn't recognize this. Hamsun's Victoria is a strong woman. She stands up for the impossible love before she dies in spite of the prejudices of society. Anne Cath Vestlys Erle, the mother of Guro, is a strong woman. She's a single mother and works as a janitor at a time when moms don't work. Ibsen's Nora is a strong woman and leaves the family and the children when she doesn't want to be Helmer's little lizard anymore. These women from the literature world we can agree on are strong, not because they are women, but because they make the tough choices – settle with the existing, create their own future and change the future of others. It is therefore surprising that I am listening to the debate on family policy. Here the socialist parties argue that those who make different choices in today's society, namely to expand their home time with their own children and to postpone their start in kindergarten, are weak people – people who do not know their own best, people who almost have to be protected from themselves. Yes, someone even believes that they are almost a little late. I have heard that the government is making arrangements for people to just go home and not be out working. I would like to say a little bit of a joke: I would like to welcome the people who have expressed this, at any time, home to me for a 14-day holiday with a two-year-old. I would like to invite more children too – so that the holiday experience will be complete. Right thinks we have to have confidence in people and respect for those who choose differently. A debate that expresses distrust that most families know the best of their own children is a policy against freedom of choice – as long as you do not choose what the majority wants. Henry Ford's word that you can choose the color you want on the car, only it's black, is very opaque. Children are important as their own individuals, children need good and safe families around them, and not all children are born into an A4 form that fits the socialist worldview. Then it will be up to the strong women – and men – to stand up for what they think is right, and this government fortunately believes that these families too should be trusted and given their place in budgets and in political debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2058	Over the year, we have heard representatives from the Right and the Progressive Party from this pulpit come loose with their thesis that the red-green family policy held a damp hand over the freedom of choice of the small children's families. It peaked when the representative Hans Olav Syversen in his contribution to the financial debate earlier this year made the claim that the red-green family policy ‘has gone too lye and cold water for several years. It has turned with a new government and a new majority’. To put it nicely, it's rude, it's free, and it's completely wrong. In this debate, too, the dark blues try to create a picture that their version of freedom of choice is what the families of young children demand, and refer to the outcome of the elections. History and our own experience show that the government's family policy is rapidly becoming a coercion for the families. I would like to refer to the representative of Arild Grande's excellent contributions on what is the Labour Party's family policy, and it is far from obnoxious. But I'm going to leave the dark blues cream wanting to take Mother back to the kitchen bench and move on to focus on the growing debt problem we're still seeing increasing, and then especially among young people. Debt collection requirements and debts are a terribly poor start to adult life, and there are enough reasons to bring young adults into a difficult debt situation. One keyword can be consumption loans and the simple access we have to such loans. When we continue to record negative debt developments, we need to be able to ask whether the financial institutions are doing a good enough job in the credit assessment of unsecured debt. Although credit institutions have a deterrent obligation and a credit rating requirement, we see that there are consumer debts that create the biggest problems for young adults, but also for others in the growth generation. We are many who have thought over time that the lenders have to commit to a greater responsibility when it is obvious that consumption loans should not have been granted. The red-green government also put forward a proposal to establish a national debt register. It was meant to be a good tool for both lenders and borrowers, and we were on the good path for it to become a reality. But then one -- the proposition was here in the house, but was withdrawn. The register was to give credit institutions an overview of people's debts at all times. The measure was intended to prevent indebtedness problems in individuals. Under the Financial Contracts Act, creditors are obliged to advise against loans to those who already have a lot of credit and are not able to operate new loans. Removing the possibility of creating a debt register means that those who have a high consumption debt will still have a tough everyday life. It seems that the government of Solberg is ok – that each one is responsible for his actions, is a mantra in a market liberalistic view of human beings. In this perspective, we're talking about Poverty Norway only words without content from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2080	First, to the question from Aasrud about the closure of the Finnmark supplement: I can assure you that the winding-up of the Finnmark supplement is being postponed, in the budget adopted today. The proposed appropriations for the additionalproposal were 15.09 million. NOK and it has now been adjusted to SEK 15,110 million. kr in the setting, and the estimated savings for the closure of the Appendix have been adjusted from 80 million. NOK 60 million. kr. It is consistent with the fact that the liquidation is now postponed by one quarter. I am very happy that several people have engaged in consumer matters. What has emerged in the media over the past few days shows that some – I would say – unprofessional companies are not related to the market law we have today. I am very happy that we are now going to evaluate that market law. The signals we've seen in the last few days are going to be important when we're going to evaluate that law. It is important that we have good laws that ensure good for consumers in Norway. In the case of debt registers, there is something the government is working on, and we come back to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for a debt register. The signals I get here from the Center Party – now there is no one from there in the Chamber – regarding family policy, make me happy for the further work over the next few years, and that we can get good support from the Center Party for good family policy. As I said, we have good family policies in this country, both with cash support, with parental leave and with child care policies, which are in the best interests of each family. When the representative of Arild Grande speaks of a ‘continuous project of freedom’, the same is true of this government. It depends on the policy being pursued, and it is not a choice between job and care, but it is a question of combining work and care. The one who's been the loser with the red-green policies are the kids, who haven't been able to be home with one of the parents when they haven't been able to take out their quota. There are many things that lie in the child protection promise, but I want us to come back to it in the nearest budgets, because there are many good proposals that lie in the position we are going to be discussing today, to the follow-up of Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013. Several have spoken in connection with the scope study. What's important in that case is actually to give help to the children who need it today. We also need knowledge, but right now the government has prioritised giving concrete help and follow-up to those who are being hit today. I want to give priority to the actions that we can start now, based on the knowledge we now have, and then we're going to come back with more knowledge acquisition in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2097	It is a little strange to be accused of market liberalism — a kind of ‘economic’ thinking, if you can call it — from an opposition that seems unable to view family policy as anything other than a social economy. Now I'm concerned with social economy, and I think that both NHO and Kristin Forest Lund have many good points very often, but it's after all that family policy is not just a macroeconomic measure. The community isn't just about the big negotiating table, it's also about the small kitchen table. What we're trying to do is we're trying to find a balance. Then we find a balance between the fact that we have a qualitatively good kindergarten offer for those who want it, and at the same time an opportunity that is both cheaper for society and not very generous economically for those who want another alternative. The representative Arild Grande talked about work or care, and I became a little curious about what that means. Does this mean that those who don't work can't show care? Does that mean that if you work, you can't show care? I cannot quite understand why parents should have to choose between work or care. I can't believe they had to do it under the red-green government, and I must honestly admit that I can't understand why they should have to do it under the present government. The conclusion is that as politicians, we should be more concerned with talking about why kindergarten is good, rather than pointing a index finger at all those who choose something else. There's actually not so many of them. Instead, let's talk about why it's good to have children in kindergarten, why there's a lot of qualitative good going on there, how we can do good kindergartens even better, and then we can spend less time fighting and talking about those who choose something else. The representative of Vågslid took up a subject – the attack was directed at Mr. Solvency Horne, but the subject of the subject, namely violence in close relations, is also something I am concerned about. We're going to be very careful to try to solve all of the social problems through school, but I still want to say that there are some central issues that the school might be getting even better at moving forward and focusing on. So I'm at least very open to recordings of how the Ministry of Knowledge can also contribute to the work against violence in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2112	It was the Minister of Knowledge's first post that made me take the floor, because he said that now you should bet on quality in kindergartens in front of several places, and there were two things in the message that scurried in my ears. The first is that it wasn't this right went to the elections on. No, you went to the election on a continuous recording, which was bigger and nicer than the Labour Party and the red-green parties escalating towards two recordings. Now we see that the government – with the minister of knowledge at the head – leaps from its own promises, while cutting at our goal of two recordings, which they therefore thought was far too little ambitious before the elections. The second thing that led me to disagree with the Minister of Knowledge's posts was that, in addition to the fact that the Right went to the election on the ongoing kindergarten admissions, they also went to the elections on the standard of personnel and more quality in kindergartens. But at the same time, they're cutting 344 million. kr to municipal child care budgets as a result of an increase in cash support, and that is clearly something that will make it more difficult for municipalities to deliver the quality that the Minister of Knowledge is asking for. So I also noticed that the Council of State, Røe Isaken, believed that the Workers' Party only laid a foundation for social economy, and the representative Tønder from the Right also gave a description of our policy in which I do not recognize myself, and which I would simply call unprofessional. It is precisely our side of the policy that has contributed to freedom of choice for young children's parents and for women. And one of the very first and most central demands of the labour movement was just the right to free time and that the day would consist of eight hours of work, eight hours of free time and eight hours of rest. In modern times, the Workers' Party has been on the side of the women's movement in order to meet the requirement that women should be both economically independent and able to care for families and young children, and that is why the Workers' Party has taken the lead in all the major reforms in this area over a generation — even in recent years. The freshest thing we've done is we've legalized the right to part-time for young children's parents, and we've legalized the right to flexibility for all workers. This is in stark contrast to the clear promises made on the right that they will weaken the Working Environment Act — and thus the ability to combine time with children with the ability to support themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2124	First, we can establish that the Right has never gone to the choice of continuous admission to kindergarten. It's just reading our program, so someone knows what we've gone to choices on. Then I have to say that it is touching to hear how the Workers' Party and the former government parties are now indignant and shocked that in two months there will not be a new system for recording in kindergarten. It is possible that this is a spasmodic attempt to write a new story, because the story is that the red-green government – with Kristin Halvorsen at its head – promised that by the end of 2008 it would take a maximum of three months before the children were given kindergarten. She promised two things: she promised this, and then she promised that if she didn't get it, she would disappear. She kept none of the promises. That is the reality. And so when you haven't done this in eight years, it's strange that you're so amazed that we haven't done it in two months! But trying to change the history we've seen before in this room, and so is it now. We've said what we're going to look at, we've said we're going to do it, and imposing on the municipalities two recordings a year is not a flexible solution. That's what we want. So someone has said – something I have heard repeatedly; today it was probably from Battle Violence Vedum – that the Right has gone away from the maximum price in kindergarten. It's also directly wrong. The maximum price is there. It is price- and cost-adjusted, but it is there as a maximum price. We've also said that we need to see if we can even out the social differences in relation to parental pay, and that job we're going to grab hold of. So to the proposals no. 3 and 4 from the Labour Party which is now distributed in the Chamber: I perceive it so that proposal No. 3 is transformed into a transmission proposal, and we support it. Then you can look at what this means, whether it's natural, and need, to make such a change, and what are the consequences of it. And I've already talked to the Council of State about him looking at this, and we think that's a good solution. Then I must have an explanation of vote on proposal No. 4: When we do not want the government to promote a new action plan for LHBT, i.e. lesbian, gay, biphiles and transpersons, it is because there is a plan in place that is valid for 2013, and their organisation itself has asked for a rolling of existing plans. Creating a new plan will take a lot longer. We've been listening to the organization and dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2137	A telemarking will be happy when Ibsen is mentioned in Stortinget – and Ibsen’s Nora, she was a strong woman! Ibsen's Nora dared to leave her husband at a time when this was very alarming. ‘A Doll home’ was also set up as a theatre performance abroad, and in those days one had to change at the end in very many countries, because he was unheard of and did not fit in in time. So I register that Right wants very much to discuss coercive jerseys. We want to focus on the whole family, on both mother and father, and on economic freedom and self-employment for women: there is no one who thinks that there is no fundamental importance to economic independence for women. We also believe – and we have meant for many years – that strengthening the father's role in the family is also important. Ibsen was known to be leading his time. One cannot say the same about the new government. I thought it was great that the Minister of Knowledge said that he also wanted to follow up and receive input when it was in force in close relations. I really appreciate that. I have received the same feedback from the Minister of Justice and also from the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. And, yes, there is something I should have loved the Minister of Knowledge had done, and it was as if he had pushed a little more on the Minister of Children and Gender Equality! For some of the activities in the children’s talks, there are a number of professional groups under the Ministry of Knowledge. There were measures to strengthen and add teachers, kindergartens and training tools to the SFO in order to meet and discover and talk with the young people we need to see. For even though the red-green government carried out an important and large child-restraint lift, we also need to realise that there is a lot of work on the prevention level – before child-restraint, the ones to report to child-restraint. So yes, thank you: there I would love to have been helped, but now it seems to be a little late. At any rate, the Labour Party – with representatives from all committees – comes to engage in issues of choice in close relations. We're going to be constructive, but we're going to be offensive and clear that the force we're starting on when it comes to this work is not going to stop, and there I really hope that we can work together well in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2150	It's interesting to listen when Solveig Horne is talking about the Right Party-government's continuous freedom project for the family, and when Røe Isaacen talks about having a policy adapted to the small kitchen table, because the consequences of the grips they've been given in a short time are quite clear. Last week I visited my sister and asked how her family experienced the so-called freedom of the family that was now coming sailing from the Right Party government. They got a daughter four hours into September 1. They were very happy when the red-green government shortly afterwards signaled that 241 million was granted. kr extra for the next year’s budget to extend the kindergarten period to 1 November, which would ensure greater freedom for such a family. Then came the Right Party government, and some of the first thing they signaled was that they withdraw that money. The result is that you're left without the possibility of having a nursery place. That is exactly what the Red Isaac must understand: these families must choose to be at home instead of being able to choose the combination of working and providing good care, of which most families are occupied. The second thing they've experienced is that they've received two letters from school in a relatively short time. One was told that the school fruit scheme was cut, as a result of the government's cut, and the other was told that the school class was cut. So much for the new freedom of the family and the new, better life that the Norwegian family would experience with the Right Party government. What about the tax cuts? they ask. Well, with the government's arrangement, all families whose income is less than 400,000 kroner a year will get a real tax tightening as a result of an increase in the nursery price. So much was it worth it. Svein Harberg was just on the pulpit and said that the Right has never promised continuous child care coverage. The Right’s own electoral programme states that the Right will ‘ensure that municipalities facilitate continuous recording’. And how do you do that? Well, that's what you do, for example. by doing what we did, by granting 240 million. kr more to get a escalation in the direction of continuous recording. That's how you make sure you get in that direction. Not only has the Right Party government removed that money, but they have cut down 340 million in addition. kr to kindergarten places. It's going in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2169	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2172	Politics like the small kitchen table was a beautiful indication from the Minister of Knowledge, and it's good to know that it's not just about social economy. But what's made me do this debate is talk about cash support and the removal of the father quota is for people to choose freely and freely. It is unlikely how robust that argument is. Men say they wouldn't have the chance to choose leave if the spring quota had not existed. To quote a person who is in this room: «The cash support of the day provides only for those who serve the most only the freedom of choice.» He also says that she is a barrier to integration. These are words written by Minister of Knowledge Røe Isaksen for not too long. I believe in these areas are more than some people want it to look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2190	I registered that the state council invited Horne to cooperate in family policy, but I didn't get to know that she answered my questions about the non-profit sector. There is now a great deal of uncertainty in the non-profit sector about the new government's policy. In the setting, the Right and Advance Party wrote that they think it was unfortunate that the red-green government chose to limit cooperation with private actors on the basis of ideology, as they call it. They do not comment that the new government will continue the cooperation agreement. It is also true that if one departs from their own bidding rounds for the ideals, this may lead to the ideal feature in the child protection field being closed. I would like to ask again: will the government continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector? Will the government continue the system of own rounds of offers for the non-profit sector in the field of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2201	It's always nice to be met with quotes from itself, but I'm absolutely sure there's something very reasonable about these quotes. It may request sources from others. I'll address a few things before I thank you for a good debate: With regard to the standard of manning, this government has the same ambition as the Workers' Party has given me the air in the election campaign, namely to introduce a standard of manning towards 2020. If you're interested in lifting private kindergartens, having equal treatment for private and public is an important step on the way. Anyone who has the right to babysitting today will have the same right. We do not change the right to babysitting, but if more people choose to receive cash support, there will be a need for a smaller number of kindergartens to enforce that right. But the court is there for everyone. This isn't a cut. This is a calculation of the effect that fewer people might want to choose a kindergarten. I'm not going to go into the discussion about the work environment law, but I think it's very strange that you think that a rigid work environment law makes it easier to get time with your family. I wanted to think the opposite: a little bit more flexibility makes it possible to work a little bit more for some periods and be more with the family when you have the opportunity. I also hope that the sister of the representative Grande will not receive a letter that the government has increased the investment in continuing training for teachers of 320 million. kr, compared to the red-green budget. They may not receive a letter saying that the teacher of their son or daughter, on the day they begin school, has been given the opportunity to fill in professionally, among other things. Mathematics. They may not receive a letter saying that this government is increasing the apprentice's allowance by NOK 3 500 per apprentice. But all these things are important priorities in the budget. I thought I would invite you to a little sister's fight: I became an uncle on Friday, and my sister – I don't know what she's voting for and whether she voted for her own brother at the big shot once – has a man who's a carpenter who hasn't yet got a steady job. Of course, he should have that after a while. He has, like many young carpenters, organized himself as a self-employed person to take a job for a period of time. He has no real chance of taking out his cardboard. The situation for my sister is then that they lose the paperwork that Dad really does not have a chance to take out, simply because it is not compatible with the working situation he has. So my sister -- I don't know what she's voting for -- has at least expressed joy at the fact that others who end up in a similar situation with a new government will not lose all that paperwork, as the situation is today. So, there's going to be a little bit more to distribute between your parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2220	It was the representative of Helga Pedersen who made me take the floor. I think she said she stunned over an article. Well, compared to my reaction when I heard her, it was quite mild, to say it like this. In politics, I think we should be talking about each other. We're going to brag about each other where you think opponents are doing good things, and then of course we're going to debate the disagreements. That's why I want to start by saying that the red-green government did a great job for the kindergarten sector. But as for what they say about two babysittings, I want to point out a few things about when they decided to impose this solution on the municipalities. Then they didn't know what other solutions would cost. They had not bothered to draw up an overview of how many municipalities practised continuous recording, and they granted under one-sixth of what it would cost to introduce two recordings. Then this government has a slightly different approach – a little better, I'd say – to get an overview of the things that the red-green government didn't find worth getting an overview of, and then you have to do what you can to get more flexibility in the recordings. I would like to remind you that the 2013 budget for kindergartens was called a rest cutting by the Education Association. I would like to say that the Trade Union expressed concern about the quality of kindergartens. It was mentioned by the representative Pedersen that the Right had not fought for quality elections in kindergartens. Then you have to ask yourself if the representative Pedersen was so prepared to lose the election that she didn't bother to join in the election campaign, because I put myself in debates and discussed quality in the kindergartens, and there were many in the Right who did. We had a campaign on several pedagogues. We campaigned to strengthen continuing education and a number of other proposals. What all these debates over the last few days have shown is that we have an opposition now that doesn't know what it's doing, and it doesn't know what to do. That's why you hear from the representative Grande things like the government prioritizing tax cuts instead of this and this, which is only red-green rhetoric to hide all the red-green failures. It's a rhetoric that the previous government just lost its choice. My tip for the red-greens is to think of something better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2233	With a speaking time of 3 minutes now, you don't have time to answer everything, but I want to answer the challenge from the representative Toppe about state and private institutional places. What we need to be aware of is that today the state is purchasing child protection services from private actors, and that about half of the measures come from private and non-profit actors. The measures offered by the private sector are now a prerequisite for providing good help to many of the children who need it. I think it's important that we talk about one child protection, but that we have different providers to help the children who need help. A goal of the government is to increase the freedom of choice of municipalities to choose the measures appropriate to the individual child. We must first take into account the children's need for predictability and optimal follow-up, and there we must use all auxiliary institutions, both government, private and non-profit. The Christian People's Party said you shouldn't lose focus. I can assure you that this government will not lose focus on the children who need help. All those in need of help need help. We see that in recent years there has been more focus on building up foster home capacity than building up the institutional capacity that we also need. It is a development that the bourgeois parties have fully agreed on, and we have been concerned that this development has gone too far. The challenge is to find good foster families and enough foster families, while we see that we have too many unforeseen movements among the children who need help. It is therefore important to look at the balance between the use of foster families and institutions. It shall be an offer that provides the best for each child. We could say a lot about family policy. I have four sisters. I'm not going to go in and speculate on how the four have voted, or on what would have been best for the individual family, but what this shows is that every family is different, with different needs, and that's what this government adds by giving the families flexibility and freedom of choice that suits the individual family in a small children's phase. The effort to combat violence in close relationships or violence against children is not measured in how much competence we have out there. It's measured in what measures we have, and if we give the children who need help, help just when they need it. That's what this government is doing now. We are giving priority to the measures that are already there today. It's clear that we're going to come back and get more knowledge, but now it's important to give help to the kids who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2244	There is no doubt that the debate on family policy shows that there are clear dividing lines between the political blocks. When we look at the position presented today, the majority parties will not agree that there is still a need for a gender equality policy in Norway – everything should be about discrimination. We also see this in the case of kindergartens and the attitude towards kindergartens, and I have to say there are some eye-catching statements here in the Chamber about what you promised before the election. I brought some newspaper clippings. In one of them, Tord Lien says that the nursery service was terrifyingly unambitious. In other clippings, it says that the right side will have ongoing babysitting, that the Right and Advance Party will wreck today's date hysteria, and that they will have monthly recording. Yes, the Progress Party said as late as September 6 what they promised the voters, and then they were going to give them kindergarten rights for one-year-olds with continuous kindergarten admissions. This may not have been misunderstanding for the voters who saw this, but the result is 7,000 fewer kindergartens. I think it's interesting to remember what the Right Fiscal Spokesman Fleet said, when he said that there is a positive side effect and a clear element that contributes to the priorities made in the budget. More clearly, we cannot say how we have prioritised kindergartens. I was surprised when I heard the government parties, among others. in debates on the non-profit sector before the elections. There was a great deal of care for the ideal institutions. The Stoltenberg Government thus reserved a substantial proportion of the tenders to non-profit institutions serving children’s protection. That's the situation today. But what is proposed in today's budget? Indeed, for more services in the field of family protection and child protection, it is necessary to open up the possibility for non-profit and private individuals to compete. All good offers shall be used without increasing the pot. Who, then, is going to be hurting? There must be fewer public offers in the future. For the Workers' Party it is important to have reasonable kindergartens because it gives women and men the freedom to make their choices in everyday life. We know that good kindergartens are good for kids, and that's why we want to secure enough kindergartens for kids. We want to ensure women the opportunity to be economically independent, and through the secure society of labour, women's income and Norway's prosperity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2255	The most eye-catching thing we hear now in this debate is that all the promises made by current government parties, for example. kindergartens and continuum, are irradiated as dew for the sun. Well, that's what the new solutions are, isn't it? I've been in a lot of debates here in Stortinget, also with the Right, and I've been told that if you didn't get in place a continuous recording, it would even be a betrayal – a betrayal – against the families of children. That's what Højres Linda Hofstad Helleland said. Then when we add up to get two recordings, you remove it with a pen stroke. The price shall be increased. Kindergartens shall be more expensive and there shall be fewer children's playgrounds. We have no doubt about which direction we want to go in. We want more kindergartens – at a reasonable price, higher quality in kindergartens and more admissions. That's the direction we want to go in. That's our ambitions. As far as equality is concerned, the government is going in completely the wrong direction and is removing many of the measures that we know have worked. It's a long way to equality. There's one thing I miss very much in the debate on cardboard, and that's the kids' right. There's a lot of talk about parents having the right to choose, and parents' freedom of choice is important. Where has it become of the kids' right to be with their father, to get to know their father, to be as safe on their father as on their mother as a caregiver? Where has this been discussed? We have to make sure of that. We have to make sure that kids get an as naturally belonging to father as to mother. It's a political responsibility to get it done. We know there's a fight about the leave period. And I can say it – I dare say it: I know that some fathers also meet it at home, because many mothers like to have the weeks, because it's been like that. But are we not to contribute to the strengthening of the children’s right to be with their father? And then it's certainly like that -- I hear more people here also telling these stories about their families -- that only men have jobs like this that don't think it's possible to be away from. We get all these stories about men who can't take leave. I wonder if it will soon begin to beat people that women can actually also have such jobs that it is difficult to be away from. Finally, child protection: The Minister for Children said that the child’s need for predictability should be the most important. Yes, then I would like to say to the Minister for the Child: Don't put kids' homes on offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2269	I can assure the representative Heggelund that I was very closely involved in the election campaign, and what I heard very clearly from the Right in the many debates I had with representatives from the Right in the kindergarten area was that the Right promised both more quality and continuous recording. The point in my previous post was that the Right has now failed in both areas, alarmingly enough. The explanations of why you run from continuous recording are many and creative, and they crack in every direction. We have heard from the municipal minister that this is the responsibility of the municipalities to take care of. We have heard from the Minister of Knowledge that we need more knowledge in order to launch the Right election vow. We have also heard that two recordings are too bureaucratic. We have even heard from the representative Harberg that the Right has not promised it, but then I would recommend reading the Right Program, page 9, which says it very clearly. It is true that the right hand side of the paper has the same ambition regarding the standard of manning that the Workers' Party has. The problem is that even there you run in the opposite direction of the goal, among other things. With a cut of 344 million. kr to the municipalities. And it's quite right, as the Minister of Knowledge says, that it's based on calculations. But the figures entered in the budget are not calculations, it's really cut for the municipalities. Just for Oslo Municipality, that means for next year you have 48 million. kr less to walk with – it is the municipal minister’s own figures. How this cut can give better quality, someone has to explain, because I really don't understand that. I should also like to thank the representative Heggelund for the nice words that the red-greens have done a lot of good in the kindergarten area. I thank you for the words, and in this area he is quite right. I will also promise that I will be the first to praise the Right and the Advance Party for progress in the field of kindergarten when there is a basis for it. So far there's no basis for that, and that's because you cut about half a billion dollars in next year's budget, compared to the Stoltenberg II government. That means cut in number of places, and that means cut in quality. In addition, places are becoming more expensive. How this should lead to more freedom of choice and a simpler everyday life for the families of young children, some also need to explain more clearly than they have done so far, because it is simply not understandable. Right-wing invited their voters to new ideas and better solutions, but the Right and Advance Party are now taking Norwegian society on, is a journey back in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2280	The representative Mette Tønder has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2283	Being called unprofessional by an experienced representative like Helga Pedersen, I take almost as a compliment. I expect that I then met a political nerve, and that was what I was looking for. I'm a baby's mother, and I've chosen kindergarten, but I have respect for the choices of others, and I respect that not all children come in A4 and that not everyone can start in kindergarten when they're one year old. The representative would like to think that it is untrustworthy to trust the choices of families, but then we simply disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2292	I take the floor to comment on some of the debate so far. It's an interesting debate. I think it's a little special – I want to start with equality: the representative Aasrud did not understand why the government parties could not be involved in gender equality challenges in a committee comment. It's not so nice that you didn't like it. I would also ask why the Workers' Party, as the only party, was not involved in a universal equality law, a law of discrimination that covers all things together. At least it was very important in the hall earlier – in another debate, a cultural debate, there was talk of universal adaptation, so that everyone could participate in cultural life. That's what the Progress Party and the Right adds to this comment, so we can discuss it. As far as the maximum price is concerned, it sounds like there's going to be a huge price increase. I don't think that's what determines whether a chooses kindergarten or not. It has been stated from Grande that until Stoltenberg II's last budget was a liberal family policy in this country, and that it was fundamental. Otherwise in Europe, we could hear, it was bad – there was no good family policy there, which did something completely different with people. We heard from SV that it was a long and proper retreat for gender equality policy, that we should now have this freedom of choice. I'm not worried at all, I'm not. The fact that families are given the confidence to choose for themselves which leave period they want to have with their children, I believe is a good one. It's at the limit of bullying the families who choose slightly different from the SV and the Workers' Party wants. I hope we're so liberal -- we've been talking about roughness before -- that we actually respect families who choose a little different from a politically governed form of association. Actually, I think it's going to be a good family policy. Actually, I don't think it's going so wrong. I think the families appreciate choosing. And yes, that's a different direction, because it's a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2305	There has been a good debate, but what surprises me is that the red-green, opposition, has almost not spent a second of the speaking time talking about all the good measures that are in place and that are being continued, measures that are the proposals of the Stoltenberg II government, which the current government is following up because there are important measures that there is a cross-political consensus that we are going to put in place. It seems as if it came very surprising to some in this room that there has actually been a choice and that there has been a political change. A choice has been made that reflects the policy that is now being pursued – as the voters wish – with greater freedom of choice and flexibility for the families with young children. The representative Andersen speaks very warmly about the children's right to care from mother and father. Yes, that's exactly that, the child's right to care by father, which is so important to this government. We're going to give the children the right to care from both mother and father, because the family can now choose to stay a little longer at home when they can't take over the quota that they can't have. And then I think about the second thing that Andersen's representative says: yes, there are also women who can't get the quota out, and with today's government policy, families will have more freedom of choice with regard to the parental leave they have. So to the representative Aasrud – what is important for the representative? Is it having an offer that is always there for the child when it needs help? It must be the most important thing here, not if it's a state, or a non-profit, or a private institution – it's to find the offer that suits the individual child, and then give them help when they need it. The Stoltenberg II government purchased services — from both the ideals and the private. About 50 pst. of all the measures came from the private or the ideals. So here's one of the things that you're not going to put your kids in tender. Well, then I can say that the same thing was done under Stoltenberg II. Also, some kids were put out to tender. The most important thing for today’s government is to provide the child with an offer when it needs to, regardless of whether the offer is from a company or from a government institution — as long as the child is provided with help at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2320	I'm a little surprised, but I'm sure it'll pass when I get a little more experience as a representative. I am not so surprised by the repeated criticism of freedom of choice that we stand for. I am also not so surprised by the criticism that we want to show more trust. Nor am I very surprised by the criticism of the cash support, although it is otherwise an arrangement that has lived well for eight years under red-green rule, but which is now critical. It could have been a little bit surprising, but it's not. Nor am I so surprised how wrong it is that we should let the families decide for themselves how to use the maternity leave – even though the representative Grande, as I understood him, believed that freedom is primarily a freedom if it escapes from a political system. It may seem that choosing to be at home with your own children is considered a bit strange, that it is an old-fashioned thing to choose from kindergarten – that something is wrong when you want a little more time with your own children. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, even thought that it seemed as if the clock were to be turned back, that the equality work was to be reversed. It is of course wrong, but I am still not very surprised by the claims. I am a little surprised that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes’ party, SV, has removed the committee dealing with these matters. But as the assembly has understood, I am in favour of freedom of choice, even if someone chooses a little strange. What I'm surprised about, is that the left side shows heavenly decay because there's a difference between this and the previous government. Common to almost all the red-green posts here today is that one there appears to be very surprised at a new direction and other priorities, and that the election result has put together a different majority. Maybe some red-green feel that it has been selected incorrectly here as well. Of course, there are differences. Of course it's a different direction. The freedom of choice we want is real – it is not systematized. If the surprise of this is real, I think it's nice. If the surprise is taken, I don't think it's very dressy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2335	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2338	When I hear the debate and the speeches from people from the Right and the Advancement Party, I get thoughts about Monty Python's legendary sketch: 100 meters ran for people without direction. Had everyone in this room agreed on the goal and the means, we would have run in the same direction. We tried it -- we started an escalation by granting 240 million. kr on the State budget for 2014. It's reversed. Not enough of that, you're taking away 344 million in addition. kr, which will further reverse this development. This will lead to less freedom of choice for families, and this will make combining work and care more difficult. It will be unfortunate for the work force, and it will be unfortunate for the families. Not least, it will be unfortunate for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2343	No, we're not surprised at part of what we hear. What I'm surprised about is that the Right Party and the Advance Party have run from all the promises of continuous babysitting, because nothing has been as clear as that. I got – to say it like that – a rough mouth because we waited until we saw how we could move on with this, and we put money into the budget to move on with it. Now when this just gets swept away with a pen stroke, I have to say I'm surprised. The other thing I'm not very surprised about, because it's old-fashioned right-wing policy – we expect a government to do that. I think the families would appreciate a lot more babysitting, cheaper kindergartens and quality in kindergarten. I am absolutely sure that the families would appreciate and regard as an important part of their freedom of choice – just as they would appreciate that we have introduced a paper that has made us a little bit of a change in the gender role patterns. Fathers also need help from some employers who do not think it is so good for Dad to be at home with the children. There are some social structures that make there still no real freedom of choice. It's possible to make some choices here in life without getting paid for it. I've made some of those choices – it went perfectly well. I didn't have to be paid by the state to make any of those choices, but I needed kindergarten when I chose to work. It was very difficult when my children were young – many years ago – because they were almost not kindergartens. That's why we worked for it. Babysitting at that time was in dollars about the same animals as it is today. It says a little bit about the struggle we've waged for this, has changed the Norwegian society. We've also become very productive. I think the government places too little emphasis on the important socio-economic importance it has for women to participate in the labour market. It's incredibly important. Otherwise, I have to say – I got into it when we discussed gender equality policy: You the world I miss Ansgar Gabrielsen in the Right! He dared to go ahead – present legislative proposals without actually presenting it to the others in the government, and not at all to the Right. He paved the way for what everyone has seen to be an advantage for Norwegian businesses, namely that women enter the regimes. It has worked – equality measures work. That's why we have them. That's why we get so upset when you remove some of them, because we're not in the goal. It'll be great. Equality doesn't threaten anyone. It's about everyone having equal opportunities. I wasn't sure the Progress Party meant it, but I was sure that Right meant it. That's why I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2358	No one argues that equality works. The last post is a typical example of how the red-greens create non-existent conflict lines because you don't agree with them all in one place. I think it's time for someone to tell red-green magnification representatives that their arguments and the posts they're making don't get any better because they're repeated and repeated for an hour after an hour in this room. This is not the way a debate works – that arguments automatically just get better. I think it's a little funny that the red-greens say this government stands for a breach of promises. Let's just take some of the promises of the red-green government. The aim was to meet today’s educational norm — broken. One should strengthen the efforts for quality and competence development in kindergartens – then we can see what the magazine Education wrote in leadership: they punished Kristin Halvorsen for doing very little. Let's consider the promise to be broken. They were to continue State aid for the construction of kindergartens – the investment grant was terminated in 2012. Then we can say, broken. They were to ensure financial non-discrimination by escalating the appropriations for non-municipal kindergartens for a period of up to five years. The pace of escalation was slowed down. Children in private kindergartens were not treated in the same way. The trade union was concerned about development — broken. So this came from a government that had a clean majority for eight years. It requires a very special form of incompetence – and once again the red-green magnification representatives as the emperor sits in his new clothes. Then you would want them to have some substance to come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2369	To the last representative who had the floor here: as far as I know, there is a solid majority both on the Stortinget and at the government parties and their supporting parties, who have been clear that either they will have a running admission or two admissions this year. I guess it shouldn't be so hard to get it done, even based on what you've promised in the election campaign, and what you've programmed. ‘Freedom’ is an interesting concept, which is widely used in family policy – freedom of choice. But what about freedom of choice when one now not only reverses his promises of continuous recording – which was probably ambitious – but also reverses two recordings, when one sees the need that is? What made me take the floor was the Councillor Horne, who said that the voters wanted this policy. Have the voters wanted one not even to introduce two recordings? In fact, I think many voters – young children’s parents – were fascinated by the continuous recording. I actually think a lot of young children's parents chose to vote on e.g.. The Right Party and the Advance Party because they promised to record continuously. It must be disappointing for them to see and acknowledge that one did not get a continuous recording and not two recordings, but one recording. I don't think the voters want it, and it doesn't give more freedom of choice. I also record that one gives freedom of choice to one group of parents; the group of parents who want to have the children away from kindergarten for a while. Before I went up here I Googled Right, the Advance Party and kindergarten recordings. I found an incredible number of reports where both the Right Party and the Advance Party both in the election campaign and in the past have been very clear and corrected, among other things. We in the Working Party for not having been proactive enough there. I think we can take self-criticism there. We could probably have been out in the past with two babysittings, and we could probably have been even more proactive. The strange thing is that when you're on voice fishing and you're so clear and so clear, and you have a majority with the Left and Christian People's Party, you choose to give priority to what gives children and children's families the most freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2381	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2384	It was Stefan Heggelund's comments that made me take the floor. I understand that the right-wing knowledge party needs knowledge to implement the promises they have made to the voters. When it comes to knowledge about being able to perform multiple babysitting and get rolling recordings, I recommend the representative to read the nursery message. There he will find information on the number of children without a right who have children's gardening space today, and which municipalities carry out a continuous admission. He will find information that it is the municipalities who have the best advice, who are able to perform a continuous recording, and he will also be able to understand that when you cut the framework grant to the municipalities, you will also increase the differences between municipalities. Today's budget not only creates differences between families and between children, it also creates differences between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2394	The representative Svein Harberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2397	I basically just wanted to thank for the commitment and for the debate, thank the committee and a historically long line of ex-culture ministers for good participation, and all the others for good commitment. That's good, because there's going to be a lot of debates in this room about the content of the policy we're in and we're starting on. There are many policy areas to develop, and I hope we can keep that commitment. In fact, I want to go back to Mr. Bekkewold's first article in the debate on family policy, and show that fortunately there is much we agree on, not least in the case of children and young people who need extra help. We have to reassemble that, that's where we have to put the resources. Any child we can help out of the bad situation they're in is important, and we're going to get together about that. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2404	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 4–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2418	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2432	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2447	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2461	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2475	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2489	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2503	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2517	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2531	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2545	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2559	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2573	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2587	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2602	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2616	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2630	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2644	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2658	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2672	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2686	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2700	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2714	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2728	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2734	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2929	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that organisations working on language learning and strengthening literacy can maintain their activity and be strengthened in the coming years.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2959	It has been asked that proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party are converted into a transmission proposal and changed in line with this. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the government assess whether there should be an obligation to provide nursery services in Sami, where there are at least 10 children in the municipality. Also in non-administration municipalities, similar as provided for by the Training Act.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a new action plan for LHBT for the period 2014-2017. [[Lesbian, Homofile, Bifile and Transpersons]] The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e2982	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the objective of the Cultural Promise is 1 pst. to culture is fixed, on the same basis as before.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e7859	We have already voted in case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e7866	In the case of cases No. 9–31, are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 1–23. There are no comments on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-10.ana.ud2626e7909	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
