ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-19.ana.ud1290e39	Honourable co-representatives! Former employee representative of the Workers' Party, Mary Eide, died 89 years old. She represented More and Romesdal from 1977 to 1989. Mary Eide was in the Maritime and Fisheries Committee for the entire time at Stortinget. «Fisker girl from More» was the delight of many of the male colleagues in the committee to call her. She was a good adult when she was 53 years old for the first time being elected to the Stortinget. But with three periods of Moldovan city government behind her, Mary Eide was no Norwegian in politics. Ownership also had a number of public boards in health, social and care activities. The social policy exposure, and in particular the disability of pensioners, was high. For many years she organized monthly retirement meetings at the People's House. Every month, the troops of between 100 and 150 pensioners flocked up at these meetings. Since 1814 there have been many male representatives from the Moors elected to the Stortinget. But it was not until Mary Eide, together with the Christian People's Party of Aslaug Fredriksen, was elected in 1977 that Mary got her first two women on the moor bench. With her social commitment and care work within everything from nursing homes to family protection offices, she never allowed herself to hide the desire for a place in the Storting Social Committee. It wasn't like that. Instead, there was maritime and fisheries policy on Mary Eide, in a committee she found herself well prepared. She herself referred to the years at Stortinget as wonderful and instructive. And she particularly highlighted the rapporteurs' work on the well-being of the merchant fleet and the pilot service. Mary Eide was driven by speeding the coast to get acquainted with the pilots and the fishermen. When she left Stortinget, she said that her association with fishermen and their organisations was what she was going to miss most from time to time as maritime and fisheries. At Stortinget, Mary Eide also marked interest and commitment to international policy and cooperation. For two periods she was a member of the Great Britain delegation to the Interparliamentary Union. We remember Mary Eide for her working in the Storting and shining peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-19.ana.ud1290e67	The representatives of Kari Henriksen, Sverre Myrli, Anette Trettebergstien and Eirik Sivertsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on Permits on Days 19 and 20 November, on behalf of the representatives of Mr Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Mr Sven Roald Hansen and Ms Irene Johansen, and of the Group of the European People's Party on Permits on Days 19 and 20 November, on behalf of the representative of Mr Geir S. Tuskedal – all to attend meetings of the Committee of the EFTA Members of the European Parliament in Geneva and to meet in the EEA Council in Brussels from the representatives of Mr Ola Elvesuen and Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on leave from 19 November to 21 November – both to participate in the high-level part of the 19th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the 9th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol in Warsaw of the Workers' Party on sick leave for the representative Mr Gunvor Eldegard from 19 November and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in the Stortinget on Tuesday 19 November under the authority of the representative Svein Roald Hansen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Are HealthFor More and Romesdal County: Tove-Lise TorveFor Oslo: Ingunn Gjerstad and Guri MelbyFor Rogaland County: Marie BrekeFor Østfold County: Fredrik Bjørnebeck, Wenche Olsen and Elise Waagen
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-19.ana.ud1290e160	Are Health, Tove-Lise Torve, Ingunn Gjerstad, Guri Melby, Marie Breek, Fredrik Björnebeck and Elise Waagen are present and will take the seat. The President would also like to tell the representatives that voting is going to be pretty quick, so you might as well stay in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-19.ana.ud1290e176	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-19.ana.ud1290e190	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-19.ana.ud1290e204	No one has asked for the floor. The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-19.ana.ud1290e295	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and then the meeting is cancelled.
