ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e100	The representatives Freddy de Ruiter, Kjell-Idar Juvik and Eva Kristin Hansen, who have been on probation, have again taken up their seats. Tine Sundtoft State Council will convey four royal propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e119	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be interrupted, if necessary, by 9 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 16:00 and continues until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e131	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e143	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e155	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e167	The National Audit Board has evaluated six schemes for grants for natural and outdoor diversity, which have been allocated as entries in the Ministry of the Environment's budget. The study grant schemes amounted to 252 million. SEK in 2012 and 168 million. kr in 2013. ‘The aim of the study has been to assess the extent to which grants to natural and outdoor diversity contribute to good achievement and are managed in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Stortinge.’ The study is based on three main issues: to what extent has the Ministry of the Environment’s governance of the grant schemes been designed to ensure target achievement? To what extent are the grant schemes managed in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting? To what extent do the grant schemes contribute to the achievement of the objectives? The Court of Auditors report summarises the main findings in three points: – ‘Deficient reporting and lack of evaluation provide insufficient information on target achievement. – Subsidy management is to a small extent in accordance with good governance principles. – The grant schemes provide increased activity and added value.’» The first two main findings of the National Audit Office report criticise the way in which subsidies to natural and outdoor diversity are managed. This criticism is based on the Riksrevision's starting point for its study, which is to look for deviations from the Financial Governance Regulation of the State adopted by the Stortinget in January 1997 and which frustrates target and result management as an overall governance principle. From this point of view, the Riksrevision provides a well-founded criticism of how the grant schemes are managed, and the Ministry of the Environment shows in its response that the criticism is perceived and will be followed. In such cases, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee would normally be satisfied with the report and the response and end its proceedings. As the case rapporteur for this case, I feel a strong administrative responsibility. I feel responsible for the diversity of nature and for the best possible use of taxpayers' money. As an elected representative, it is therefore important for me to go deeper into the matter. I believe that it is my job not only to see whether the formal rules of the Financial Regulation have been complied with, but also to see whether the objectives set out in the Riksaudition report – to what extent subsidies to natural diversity and outdoor life contribute to good achievement – are really being achieved. I therefore selected one of the six grant schemes, Grants to priority species and selected habitat types, which are given over Item 1427.82 in the Ministry of Environment's budget, for a thorough review. During this review, I have made findings that reveal fundamental weaknesses in the governance system we, as the top elected body, use to care for overriding societal interests. These findings have led to the following conclusion: ‘The current practice of managing funding for natural and outdoor diversity is based on inappropriate target criteria and lacks the overall perspective necessary to support the overall objective of knowledge-based natural management. The result is not a knowledge-based natural management but a knowledgeless management system.» By doing so, I believe that the lack of investment in knowledge production in the field of natural diversity is an important contributing cause of the current situation. I am aware that these are strong words, and I have recorded that the other committee members have chosen not to support my criticism. At the same time, I note that the majority of the committee acknowledges me for a thorough dossier. I believe that one of the most important tasks of the Control and Constitutional Committee is to ensure that a policy is pursued that is in line with the objectives we have jointly adopted. That's what management is. The main reason why I have chosen to address this matter in the width that I have done in my case proposal is that this matter raises very important questions of principle relating to our administrative practices. I will now justify this on the basis of the grant scheme for priority species and selected habitat types. A central concept, both in the National Audit Office's report and in my referral proposal, is 'achievement of objectives'. This is a concept that can be understood in several ways. I want to start my review by showing that the Riksrevision has laid a far too narrow perspective on the achievement of its objectives as a basis for its study. I would first like to show that in this case there is no consistency between the overall objective — that is, national targets linked to international commitments and the intentions of legislators, as formulated in legislative and central governance documents — and the performance targets linked to the specific grant schemes for priority species and selected natural habitats. My claim about an inappropriate management system is precisely based on a lack of consistency between the overall objective and the specific performance targets associated with the grant schemes. Secondly, I would like to justify the four main conclusions of my file: The lack of a knowledge base in the field of natural diversity is essential to the achievement of overall objectives. that the knowledge base has not been applied in such a way as to ensure that the overall objectives are achieved; The fact that the grant schemes do not contribute to the overall objectives to the desired extent. the non-conformity of the objective linked to the two grant schemes with the overall objectives; There is therefore a lack of consistency between the overall objective and the performance targets linked to the priority species grant schemes and selected habitat types. The overall objective of the natural diversity area is defined in the Nature Diversity Act § 1: ‘The purpose of the law is to preserve the nature of its biological, landscape and geological diversity and ecological processes through sustainable use and protection, including providing the basis for human activities, culture, health and well-being, now and in the future, also as a basis for Sami culture.’ This objective is supported by an overall increase; the law was adopted unanimously in 2009. Similar wordings can also be found in the governance documents of changing governments from the 1990s to the present. I want to focus on the two new instruments of the Nature Diversity Act: priority species authorised in Section 5 and selected habitat types based in Section 4. Sections 23 and 52 of the Act provide for the use of the instruments of priority species and selected habitat types. I'll get back to this. It is obvious to me that it is Section 1 of the Nature Diversity Act that must guide the assessment of whether the grant schemes operate according to Storting’s intentions and purpose. One of the most important findings in my review of this topic is that the criteria for achieving the target, which are linked to the grant schemes for selected habitat types and actions for priority species, do not correspond to the overall objective for the conservation of natural diversity. The criteria for achieving the objectives are formulated as follows — quoted from the Riksrevision report: ‘In the case of priority species, the objective of the grant scheme is to preserve the plant and animal species selected as priority species. At the same time, it is an objective to preserve the ecological habitats of the priority species. The award criterion is that the funds should go to measures ensuring priority species and to active care or other types of measures that contribute to the conservation or restoration of ecological functional areas for priority species. Target achievement is assessed on the basis of the number of actions. In the case of selected habitat types, the aim of the grant scheme is to preserve selected habitat types. The award criterion is that the funds are to be allocated to active care or other types of measures that help to preserve the occurrence of selected habitat types and target achievement is assessed on the basis of the number of actions.’;» I would like to illustrate this with a simple example. Think that in 2013 we will allocate the budget line to 100 different actions. It is then possible to improve the target achievement twice in 2014 by halving the allocation for each of the measures supported in 2013 and allocating the remaining amount of 100 actions to. So instead of knowledge about species and habitat types, what inhibits and what promotes them, we've ended up counting the number of measures that target good nature management. When I became aware of the gap between the overall objective and the target formulation of the grant scheme, I had to go closer to the governance practices in the field of natural diversity. The result is four conclusions that I will in turn justify. Lack of knowledge in the field of natural diversity constitutes a major obstacle to achieving overall objectives. The term ‘knowledge-based’ is left in all key documents on Norwegian natural diversity management. One example of this is Section 8 of the Nature Diversity Act, which states: «Public decisions relating to natural diversity shall, as far as is reasonable, be based on scientific knowledge on the stocking situation of species, the distribution and ecological status of habitat types and the impact of impacts.» Current knowledge of the diversity of species and habitat types is the result of knowledge building over two hundred years, documented by collections of objects and species lists in the country's natural history museums, in scientific publications and reports, and many other sources. Over the last 20 years, a large and profitable effort has been made to make this knowledge available to the private and public administrations and to the interested public, but, as we shall see, knowledge gaps are still high. At the centre of this work is the Art Database, an independent knowledge institution established as part of the follow-up to St.meld. No 25 for 2002–2003, the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The species database, located under the Ministry of Knowledge, has been operational since 2005. The species database is responsible for national root lists for species and habitat types and blacklists for species. In addition, the species database is responsible for maintaining lists of species known from Norway and responsible for the development of the type-division and description system for natural variation, NiN – Nature Types in Norway – which was launched in version 1 in 2009 and is now being revised. Much of the nation’s knowledge of species occurrence and prevalence is now freely available through the Species Maps and Species Observations Network Services, the operation of the Species Database. Despite this effort to build knowledge, the Art Database states that there are still major gaps in our knowledge of natural diversity. Lack of knowledge is a review theme both in the Norwegian Red List for 2010 and in the Norwegian Red List for 2011 habitat types. Some species groups have been studied well, but many have remained poorly studied. This applies, inter alia, to: large groups of species such as insects and fungi. Within these groups, new species, for Norway and for science, are still being detected. It is assumed that one in five species found in Norwegian flora and fauna is still not detected. It is therefore gratifying that in 2009, the Ministry of the Environment took the consequences of the major knowledge gaps in this field and decided to start the Art Project, which is a project managed by the Art Database, which aims to increase our knowledge of the diversity of species in Norway and the interaction between species and environmental conditions. In the nature type field, too, there is a great lack of knowledge, despite almost 20 years of public-funded nature-type mapping. This is probably due primarily to the fact that our country has a natural variation that surpasses most countries in Europe. To illustrate the status of knowledge in the field of natural diversity, I have chosen the nature type area as an example. As part of the follow-up of St.meld. No 58 for 1996–1997, Environmental protection policy for sustainable development — good for the future, a development programme for monitoring, classifying and monitoring biodiversity in Norway was initiated, with habitat types as one of five main themes. This programme, which was launched in 1999, initially had a five-year framework and was financed from the Ministry of the Environment’s budget. The Directorate for Nature Management, now the Directorate for the Environment, has been responsible for its implementation. Because from the outset the programme was implemented as municipal projects with the County Environmental Protection Department as a regional coordinator, it has been called the municipal monitoring. Monitoring results are reported on an ongoing basis in Naturbase, the Environment Directorate's open environmental data portal. In parallel with the municipal survey, it took place as part of the follow-up to St.meld. No 25 for 2002–2003 established a national biodiversity monitoring and monitoring programme to contribute to a better knowledge base. The municipal survey, together with other measures, was anchored in St.meld. No 42 for 2000–2001 and the National Programme, evaluated by the National Audit Office in 2006, Document No. 3:12 for 2005-2006. The Parliamentary Auditor's opinion here is that: «the municipal monitoring and national programme has so far contributed significantly less to improved knowledge status than foreseen». In 2007, an independent review of the quality, performance and resource needs of nature-type mapping was carried out which concludes that, despite their approximately Forty million. kr plus self-employment from municipalities and others used until 2006 for the municipal survey were significant weaknesses in the knowledge base on habitat types. Furthermore, it was estimated that the mapping had hardly caught up with more than 20 pst. of the real number of valuable locations, that the quality was constantly varying and that as much as about. 70 pst. by the premises visited until 2007 should be re-examined in the field. Nature-type mapping has continued to a lesser extent since 2006, mainly by supplementing previously collected data. SABIMA, the Co-operation Council on Biodiversity, is now writing in December on its websites that three out of four valuable natural areas are still uncharted. In that case, only 25 pst. Now mapped. Lack of knowledge is thus highlighted as a significant source of uncertainty in the Norwegian Red List for habitat types 2011. This is the backbone of my claim that lack of knowledge in the field of natural diversity is a major obstacle to achieving overall objectives. I will now illustrate the importance of this for the use of the ‘priority species’ and ‘selected habitat types’ instruments. Regulation on the selection of natural habitats by nature diversity law, from May 2011, binds the definition of two of the five natural habitats selected so far, moatland and hake marsh to the results of the municipal survey. According to the Regulation, the definitions cover all mapping nature-type sites of mowing land and hake that have been assessed as ‘very important’, ‘A’ area, or ‘important’, ‘B’ area, according to the Environmental DG Nature Mapping Manual. This means that locations that have not been captured during the screening process are not captured by the regulation, while sites that have been misjudged or misclassified will automatically be included in it. When the knowledge base is demonstrably deficient, I would like to ask a lot of questions about whether the overall objective of nurturing natural diversity is being properly addressed through an administrative practice that is so closely linked to a lack of knowledge base. In this context, I would like to point out the possibility of a greater global effort to map nature-type variation for which the new knowledge platform of the Art Database Nature Types in Norway opens up and which could significantly improve the knowledge base for the selection of natural habitat types. The knowledge base has not been applied in such a way as to ensure that the overall objectives are achieved. The criteria for prioritisation of species and the selection of habitat types in the Nature Diversity Act are based on knowledge of the species and nature types. Lack of knowledge makes it difficult to apply the criteria in a good way. Specific difficulties relate to the application of the criteria on poor stocking and land development and poor condition development and the criterion that a significant proportion of the overall prevalence should be found in Norway. These criteria have been discussed in the Regulation for priority species. After putting me into knowledge status in the field of natural diversity, I expected the regulations to contain clear operational criteria for how the priority of species and the selection of habitat types would be implemented in an overall process before the instruments were put into use. I'm left with the question of why these eight species and five species of nature that are covered by the May 2011 regulation were picked out. This is a critical point that I will discuss in greater detail. The instruments ‘priority species’ and ‘selected habitat types’ currently cover eight species, three plant species and five species, and five habitat types. In addition, proposals for five new species, all of which are plant species, and two new natural habitats are out of consultation. The choices are largely based on action plans drawn up for each species or nature type. The adopted priority species include four species assessed as critically endangered – dwarfed, eeritis, honeymoon and rock-breeding – three species assessed as highly endangered – estuary, red forested and black-tailed – and a species assessed as vulnerable – dragon head, in the Norwegian Red List for species 2010. The five selected natural habitat types are marsh emery, which includes cane bran, assessed as critically threatened in the Norwegian Red List for habitat types 2011, marsh emery surface, assessed as highly threatened, mowing land, assessed as highly endangered, calcareous and lime lakes, assessed as vulnerable and hollow oaks, which have not been assessed in connection with the Norwegian Red List for habitat types 2011. The criteria for prioritisation of species and the selection of natural habitat types in the Natural Diversity Act are not explicitly linked to the Red Lists, but since the Red Lists are an important part of the knowledge base for Red Listing, I would have expected the Red List status to be important for the assessment of these instruments. I was therefore curious to understand what was behind the sample. Before I go further into this, I would like to make it clear that the red list of species is essentially a prognosis of species risk of extinction in Norway, based on scientific criteria developed by the International Organisation for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Similarly, the Norwegian list of habitat types contains assessments of the risk of habitat types disappearing from Norway or of their deterioration. Norwegian species roe list is the result of a roe list assessment of approx. 21,000 species. Of these, 276 are classified as critically threatened, 872 as severely threatened, and 1250 as vulnerable. Norwegian habitat type redlist 2011 includes 80 habitat types, two of which are classified as critically endangered, 15 as highly endangered and 23 as vulnerable. With hundreds of critically endangered species on the red list, I expected that the instruments ‘priority species’ and ‘selected habitat types’ would be used primarily to ensure critically endangered species and habitat types, and that species and habitat types in lower red list categories to be considered for prioritisation or selection would at least have to meet one or more of the other criteria specified in the legal text. Detailed studies of the eight species and of the five natural species for which regulations have so far been drawn up reveal a practice that cannot be understood from the outside. The technical basis for implementing policy priorities that support the objectives of the Nature Diversity Act does not appear to be in place. I want to illustrate this with some examples. One of the priority species not classified as critically endangered is black-tailed. This bird species is a newborn in Norwegian fauna. The first safe detection of the species nesting in Norway was made in 1955, in the Western Sea. Since then, the species has settled in northern Norway, where it has been observed from Lofoten to Finnmark. Furthermore, the observed scattered places south along the coast, and it has a stock on the Jären, where it was first observed around 1980. The iron population belongs to a subspecies other than the rest of the species’ populations in Norway. In Norway, the bird species is predominantly farmed on permanent meadows, but it is also found on beach meadows. It is estimated that there are 40–100 breeding pairs in Norway, about 20 in the Jären and 60 in the north of Norway. The Natural Database provides information on the nature of the species that the Jären population has remained virtually unchanged since 1982. The reason why it has been considered to be highly threatened is that it meets the Red List criterion D1, i.e. the risk of extinction due to small population size – the requirement is that it is assumed to be less than 250 reproducible individuals of the species in Norway. After the black-tailed pontiff became a priority species in 2011 and farmers at Jären were refused to beat their meadows before 15 July – a requirement laid down in the regulation – there have been many conflicts. Therefore, as late as November 20 this year, the Central Party representative Geir Pollestad raised questions about the black-tailed pomp to Minister of Environment Sundtoft of the Right, as she answered as follows: ‘It has proved difficult to put the regulation into practice in a way that does not have unacceptable results for food production. [[...]] Nor is it a way of caring for the bird." What were the criteria for choosing the black-tailed peacock as a priority species? Since the species is not critically threatened and there is no indication that the species has a negative population development in Norway, there should be very serious reasons, based on the Nature Diversity Act § 23, points (b) and/or (c). Point b authorises the use of the instrument as a priority species for species which have: «a significant proportion of its natural distribution or genetic characteristics in Norway». The black-tailed pox does not meet this criterion. Two of the three subspecies of the species are present in Norway, subspecies islandica in the north and subspecies limosa in the south. The northern subspecies has its main distribution in Iceland, where it is reported that there are between 15 000 and 25 000 breeding pairs. The southern subspecies has its main distribution in Europe and is spread from Western Europe to the central Asian steppes. It is reported to be declining, but there are still an estimated 86 000 to 110 000 pairs. Under 1 pst. of each of the two subspecies are found in Norway. So none of the two terms in point b are satisfied. There are no ‘international liabilities related to the species’ — point (c). My review has not shown me one good reason to select exactly this species from over 1000 species that are critically threatened or severely threatened. It is also striking that, contrary to the case of most other priority species and natural habitat types, there appears to be no action plan or other knowledge compilation as a basis for the selection of the species. Another example is the plant species dragon head, which is classified as vulnerable on the red list. The requirement for knowledge should be strict when using such a powerful instrument as ‘priority species’. In 2012, the Railway Agency was charged with a million-dollar fine after a subcontractor sprayed a railway slope in Ringsacher where it grew dragonhead. Last summer, the County of Hedmark threatened to report the state road system after a dragonhead body had been hit at the edge. However, it is not obvious that the switch is negative for the species. Distinguished as care measures are discussed in the Dragonhead Action Plan, but without drawing clear conclusions: ‘With today’s knowledge, it does not appear to be a general bedding measure.’ However, in Swedish literature, the species is indicated as having the right to join. So I conclude that there's a lot of uncertainty about what's good and what's not good for this species. This leads me to new questions: Why was the lime-linden forest chosen as a chosen nature type? It has the status of vulnerable on the Red List for habitat types. And why were cave oaks, which aren't even considered rosary, selected? Why is harvest forest, which is neither considered to be a nature type in the NiN system nor a red-listed assessment, among the two new types of nature that have now been consulted? The studies I've done give me reason to ask a lot of questions about the choice of exactly these eight species and five types of nature, which in the regulation are justified on the basis of specific conditions relating to the species or nature type, but without any overall assessment looking to form the basis for the sample. To me, therefore, the choice of the eight species and five species of nature appears to be poorly justified on a professional basis. From the outside, the possibility that the influence of individuals or press groups has had an unreasonable impact on the outcome cannot be excluded. The experience with these tools since the regulation was adopted in 2011 is that there have been several battles, without me seeing that these battles are important in a wider context. The black-tailed pontiff has settled in Norway during the last decades without binding on the inwards of fertilisers, and it is not clear whether the head of the dragon is favoured or actually promoted by the turnout. Some might see this as a criticism of the Law on Nature Diversity and hidden arguments against the concept of nature protection. I want to make it clear that this is not the case. Like many others, I have spent time understanding the full significance of taking care of the natural diversity, but I fully support the intention of the Nature Diversity Act. That is precisely why it is so important to me that the good intention of this law is really realized. My opinion is that the way the law is practiced has led to unnecessary conflicts that undermine the understanding, and the value, of caring for rare species and habitat types. Politics must be anchored in knowledge. Nature conservation has a purpose, and we need to have knowledge of the contexts of nature, that is. ecological knowledge, in order to achieve that objective. I believe that the way in which the instruments of the Nature Diversity Act are applied shows a lack of respect for the importance of a solid knowledge base. I have looked at the consultation opinions on the regulation on priority species and selected habitat types, and I find it particularly critical that it appears that knowledge generated through the National Biodiversity Monitoring and Monitoring Programme and the knowledge of species and habitat types made available through the Art Database have not been used to the extent necessary for quality assurance of the priorities and selection under the Nature Diversity Act. The incentive schemes set up to implement the instruments ‘priority species’ and ‘selected habitat types’ have been established in accordance with the objective and performance management principle of State activities, as set out in Section 4 of the Financial Management Regulation of the country. In practice, the arrangements involve the annual breakdown of the means of action by application. Allocation may also be made for a period of several years, subject to financing. The management of the grant schemes has been delegated to the county offices and is carried out by the county environmental protection departments. Notices of the grant schemes, including application deadlines and award criteria, are made on the websites of the Environment Directorate. The overall framework for each grant scheme is distributed among the counties on the basis of the number of applications. As already mentioned, the performance target for each of the two natural diversity grant schemes is the number of actions implemented. The products ‘priority species’ and ‘selected natural habitat types’ are justified by the Nature Diversity Act in view of the special needs for the conservation of plant and animal species and natural habitats. I am very critical of whether the scheme is suitable for achieving this goal. There are at least three main reasons for this criticism: Dissemination of endangered nature requires the allocation of available resources according to an overall plan, based on an up-to-date state of knowledge. The current model, which leaves the initiative to a market of potential action holders rather than to the overall administrative authority, is not consistent with this principle. Only a comprehensive plan will enable overall objectives to be achieved and the optimal use of resources to be achieved. An overall plan is also necessary to allow for active use of measures other than those targeting single sites or small geographical areas. The system of distribution of funds between the counties on the basis of the number of applications received thus contributes to fragmented management that is not compatible with optimal conservation of a species or nature in Norway as a whole. The adoption of a threatened nature requires an administrative regime with a very long-term perspective. In order to produce lasting effects, for example: a mowing field or a masonry must be restored, and then it must be taken on a scheduled and regular basis for all the future it is desirable to maintain. The current model of the grant schemes does not take into account the fact that many of the priority species/species selected have special requirements for care, etc., and that in many cases these requirements are poorly known. The dragon head example shows that we still have a lack of knowledge of how many species respond to different types of grazing and mowing regimes. The preservation of such species thus requires follow-up research and the continuous and effective inclusion of the results of new knowledge in crop rotation plans. Therefore, individual measures need to be seen in a broader professional context. There is no consistency between the objective linked to the two grant schemes and the overall objectives. The National Audit Office’s report does not discuss whether the objective of the grant schemes, the number of actions, is appropriate to say something about whether the overall objectives, knowledge-based natural management, are met. As I have pointed out earlier, I believe that this weakens the relevance of the report in relation to the Committee's mandate, which I believe must be to examine whether the funding supports the overall objectives of nature protection. My strong criticism, perhaps, is that I believe that the number of actions is a completely inappropriate criterion for achieving the long-term objectives. We don't get twice as much nature protection or twice as much natural diversity if we halve the average grant for each measure. Instead of mechanical counting of an irrelevant indicator, the major, important, overall objective of maintaining a knowledge of natural diversity about natural contexts, between species and their environment, and between species composition and variability in environmental conditions is required. Instead of an unsystematic use of powerful instruments, the targeting of the use of the instrument and the follow-up by nature monitoring carried out in accordance with a comprehensive plan are needed, in line with the intention of the National Biodiversity Monitoring and Monitoring Programme. However, such a plan has still not been drawn up, indicating that the national programme has not had the scope or means necessary to achieve the ambitious objective of knowledge-based natural management. Conclusion: As can be seen from the statement I have now made, I fully endorse the conclusion of my report, initially. By doing so, I believe that the lack of investment in knowledge production in the field of natural diversity is an important contributing factor to the current situation. There is a need for both an effort to improve the knowledge base and a review of the way today’s natural management operates. In my report, I have listed five specific recommendations resulting from my conclusions. My studies have revealed that nature management is a good example of a case in point where target and result management as a general management principle appears not to be suitable for ensuring natural diversity. However, the findings I have made when I have dug in this area have opened my eyes to the possibility that this is not an isolated case, but the outcome of a system error – or in another way: that it is the principle of goal and result management, the pervasive principle on which large parts of public administration are now based, New Public Management, which is why what should have been a knowledge-based natural management, has ended up in a fragmented management system that lacks the overall perspective required for good management of natural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e332	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very good and thorough work on this matter, both here in the Chamber, with an informative contribution with knowledge that was probably in cross-political need, and also in the form of a comment. The representative has done a very thorough job. It is a majority, composed of representatives from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, who refer to the thorough review of what is at the root of the overall objectives of environmental policy, and agree with the emphasis that both the objectives and the management must be knowledge-based and long-term. It is the primary task of the control committee to be systematic after-clock. That is why it is refreshing to have an opportunity to discuss the future, which the Riksrevision gives us by presenting this report. Few of us know much about the future, and in biodiversity we know very little. Of the 60000 species present in Norway, few have been identified. We have several thousand endangered species. In these are the future and the answer to the questions we have today, and the answer to the questions we haven't asked because we don't know what we're asking. The key to the development of new medicine the world sorely needs for a disease we have never seen can lie with a species that has not been proven. Therefore, I need to stress that it is critical to implement measures to reduce biodiversity loss in Norway. Knowledge gaps cannot be used as arguments to defend the lack of action or to reduce the use of means or instruments. In what other policy areas would it be accepted that you do not know, as a reason for not doing anything? To put it another way: if you don't know, you have to figure out – don't give up. The identification of species and selected habitat types should be intensified significantly, in parallel with the continuation of the conservation and management offer. It is rare that we use the word "should" in an attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee. It is also rare that we use the word «should» from this pulp to deal with our issues, and I ask the government to take it as a strong signal from an overall committee that Norway should strengthen its efforts to comply with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, and that this be done through a knowledge-based management. It is a unanimous committee that joins the well-founded criticism of the Riksrevision and points out that it is important to improve administrative practices significantly – materially!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e349	I'm going to be somewhat more reserved in my praise to the case rapporteur, because I registered that the case rapporteur spent 30 minutes explaining his special investigations, which tends away from doing political work on a matter we've got from the Riksrevision, and over to private screening. It is at least my experience in this Chamber that a case rapporteur tries to explain the matter as objectively and collectively as possible, and then, of course, time is spent on his specific points. In this context, the Committee – the vast majority – has come together to comment on what the Riksrevision has actually presented to the Stortinget, namely what is also the title of the case, namely a ‘study of grants for natural and outdoor diversity’. That is what the matter is. I will not deny that many of the views and themes which the rapporteur draws into his deliberations on the matter may be of interest and even of great interest, but it is now time that the Committee on Control and Constitution cannot be a committee to assess whether the Red List Committee should be extended or narrowed or whether the scope of the measures should be increased or reduced. So this is not the subject of the matter. Our fraction has been related to what is the title of the Riksrevision, namely ‘study of grants for natural and outdoor diversity’. We have seen that there are weaknesses in the reporting. There is a lack of evaluation, and there is also a lack of information on target achievement. But that's not the same thing as creating a completely new discussion about what those objectives are. It is the other technical committees which may have to intervene. Then it also says something that it would have been an advantage if the rapporteur had gone into it a little bit. This applies to the fact that the grant management does not in all respects comply with the principles of good Norwegian administration. It is a message to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that should be concerned and that we must discuss together how we inculcate and how it can be improved for the future. Moreover, the large majority, which is not included here by the representative Lundtigen, have also said that these grant schemes actually work, in the sense that they provide both increased activity and increased understanding of the natural diversity/life of the open air, thus giving society added value.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e360	I take the floor as rapporteur for Document No. 3:15 for 2012-2013, which concerns the review by the National Audit Office of the Norwegian EEA funds. The study covers the planning and implementation of the EEA financial instruments for the period 2004-2009. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e365	The treatment of this lies in a later case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e368	Okay, I got the word now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e373	Yes, but then the representative will sign up when we come to the matter. The next speaker is the representative Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e378	This matter is important, because the diversity of nature is about our basis of life. I believe that there is good reason to take seriously how we manage it, and that we do it in a way that ensures the natural diversity as determined by the law, and that there is certainly unanimity around it. I would also like to commend the case rapporteur because he has gone into this thoroughly, and I do not think there is any reason to criticise it – on the contrary. But I'm probably in the mood for the angle on it from the case rapporteur's side as to whether you don't have all the knowledge base in order. We all know that we don't have, because this is a work that it hasn't been working on systematically for a very long time, the law of natural diversity is new. The fact that one is as critical as the rapporteur is to some of the things that are being done, I am probably asking myself more questions. In addition, I agree with what has been said, that how this should be done in the future must be dealt with by the Scientific Committee. But this is one of the greatest global natural and environmental challenges we have in our time, and therefore we have to be able to take some time to do this. The majority agree that the identification of priority species and selected habitat types needs to be intensified significantly, in parallel with the continuation of conservation and management grants. This means that the system needs to be continued and reinforced. Then, on the basis of your knowledge, you have to build an administration that takes care of the most vulnerable, but in a way that is as effective as possible. It is about the natures that must, of course, be protected, it is about those to be managed, it is about those to be protected and used, and all these different administrative regimes that we are to have. In some of these cases, there is conflict with both business interests and other social interests — there is no doubt about it. My soul has engaged me a little bit in the matter of the hub, which has been blamed countless times for the lack of housing in this country, and when you investigate it, it turns out that it is not a single hub that has prevented a single dwelling, but perhaps some cabins in some places. If we then believe that this is important, we should actually not be involved in any of these decisions, because that is what this is all about. Then the case rapporteur takes up the criticism of the way in which it is governed, i.e. this with goal and result management, and says that the principle of this is not suitable for either directing, as I see it, or measuring. I should very much agree with that criticism. I don't think the way to do it, makes us reach the best results, or maybe we're also tricked into thinking that we can measure everything that's important, because we can't. Finally, one of the things that the rapporteur also raises, and which the majority very much agree with, is that when you look at how a law is managed and practised, it is incredibly important that you start with the purpose of the law – what is in the terms of purpose. I believe that sometimes too little emphasis is placed on that. Some of the paragraphs of the law, or even the regulations, are examined, and some of these are given greater weight than when you look at the overall achievement of a law. As for the way we also control this in retrospect, this has to be given much greater weight, because that's what the Bigholding is saying, that a law is actually going to make a difference. Whether it's for social change, or it's for the benefit of the population, or it's to prevent crazy things from happening, it's the goal, the purpose of the law, that should be given attention, when you also look at how the various instruments work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e391	I agree with the Committee's concern when it indicates in the vote that natural diversity is disappearing at an increasing rate as a result of human influence. I also fully agree that outdoor life has a major role to play in increasing people's understanding of nature and sustainable development. This should also be the starting point for further work in the field. In the period 2011 until the summer of 2013, the National Audit Service carried out a study of 6 out of 19 natural and outdoor diversity-related grant schemes. I have noticed that their main finding was the following: weaknesses in reporting and lack of evaluation of the schemes grant management were to a small extent in accordance with the principles of good governance the schemes increase activity and added value Former Minister of Environmental Protection Bård Vegar Solhjell from SV commented on the findings in a letter to the National Audit Office of 8 May this year. The letter is attached to the Riksrevisions report. I note that the majority of the Committee believes that the Ministry has shown in its reply that it takes seriously the Riksrevision findings and recommendations, and that these will be followed up. I'm glad. I can assure the Storting that the new political leadership of the Ministry of Environmental Protection will also give priority to this work. As regards the evaluation of the schemes, the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Directorate for the Environment, has started the process of identifying grant schemes that should be evaluated during 2014. We are further working on improving reporting. In addition to reporting on the use of the grants in 2012, we have also described the national environmental objectives to which the grant schemes are linked, as requested by the National Audit Office. Measuring the impact of a grant scheme on national targets, which is also influenced by a number of other factors, is something we will continue to work with. Periodic evaluations could be a tool in this context. As regards the criticism of the grant management procedure, I would like to make it clear that this is linked to one of the grant schemes examined by the Riksrevision, namely grants for local game actions. However, I will not rule out that there may be an improvement potential in this area also linked to the other grant schemes. I would therefore like to stress in our letters of award for environmental benefits for 2014 that procedural deadlines must be respected, that letters of reply must contain reasons for total or partial rejection, and that the letters must contain information on the right to complain. Municipalities and county councils which administer grants on behalf of the Ministry will also be reminded to comply with these rules of procedure, as laid down in the Administrative Act. In addition, I can inform you that the Ministry started work in the summer of 2013 to update all the grant legislation. One of the objectives is to clarify the procedures for examining applications in order to improve the management of grants. Finally, I am also pleased that, despite the shortcomings mentioned in the study, the Riksrevision found that the funding provides increased activity and added value in favour of natural and outdoor diversity. It is good to know that the Riksrevision has found that the funds have a mobilising effect, by the fact that small funds in many cases trigger considerable activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e422	Taking care of biodiversity is very important. It is a policy area that deserves more attention, but as the report from the Riksrevision and the rapporteur's comments show, it is an area where it is easy to go wild in the good intentions. In its observations, the rapporteur gives a good reason for what I have summarised in the following three points: The factual basis for the decisions is often too weak the measurement methods provide insufficient answers to whether the overall objective is being achieved the system is being used too often for errors and gets in the way of both reason and knowledge. I believe that the rapporteur's posts were well anchored in the report of the Riksrevision, and I think it is particularly critical to go a little further in the assessments. For, in view of the large use of resources we have to carry out audits, we cannot choose the narrowest approach to follow-up. I note that the majority of the Committee does not agree with the rapporteur's specific recommendations on the grounds that they are outside the Committee's mandate and will leave these assessments to the Scientific Committee. From the Central Party we will follow up these matters in an appropriate manner both on a general basis, on the basis of the National Audit Office's report and in specific cases. I also share with the representative Lundtägen’s assessments and criticism of parts of the Riksrevision’s work that the Riksrevision has not assessed the measures against the overall objectives of natural diversity. Furthermore, the conclusion is that the measures give rise to increased activity, not particularly alarming. A system that halves the effort on each measure combined with a doubling of the number of measures will automatically increase the achievement of the target. It becomes too simple in such a complicated subject area. I do not believe that the criticism of, or views of, the rapporteur's knowledge gap is an argument for not doing anything. I perceive that he points out that there is a need to seal these knowledge holes. Black-tailed pove has been mentioned both in the debate and in the vote. There's one thing I've been following closely. I believe that there is a basis for saying that the management of this species is a good example of the need for system changes. These measures have produced little or no results, but they have created a lot of uncertainty for the landowners. Twice in recent years, exemptions have been granted from the core measure itself in order to protect black-tail paws, which is vulnerable. This has come late, close up to the switch, and it is neither good for the black-tailed post nor the owner-in-law. So the regulation and management of black-tail pox creates uncertainty for the grass production that is a necessary condition for the black-tail pox to be hedged. I think the representative of Astrup in the last period had good arguments in the Black-Halespoves case, and I guess they're being listened to. Taking care of the diversity of species is such a demanding and important task that we cannot bear to succeed. Then we have to have an administration that plays with people to ensure implementation, understanding and legitimacy. The alternative is that we don't succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e454	I would like to thank you for your comments. When I, as case rapporteur, chose to go into this so thoroughly, it is because this topic needs a greater degree of debate. It needs a greater degree of debate in relation to knowledge, in relation to what are the concrete consequences of what we do on the basis of the knowledge we have today. The theme is incredibly important. These words are very often used in the current political change of words. The «natural diversity law» is more or less universal. ‘Biological diversity’ is at least all-manhood. ‘Priority species’ and ‘selected habitat types’ have not come this far, but there are two key concepts that follow the nature diversity and biodiversity laws. A bit the same as having discussions here about climate, which, in my opinion, are too poorly justified on a professional level – we are discussing CO2 in the same way whether it has come from fossil carbon sources or not fossil carbon sources – in this case we have many honors, without going into the professional basis of the honors, and how the honors are practiced. I represent the tradition that believes that all policies should be anchored on the best professional basis, and then put a political judgement on top of that. If you don't have the best professional basis, you'll go over time, and you'll lose the excitement and understanding of the themes we're dealing with. When one received the Riksrevision's report on research into natural diversity and outdoors, I chose, as the representative Tetzschner was about to do, to go into it more than usual. That's because there's a few times we get the opportunity to go into this topic thoroughly. The report of the National Audit Office and the examination of the Monitoring Committee provide us with an opportunity to see whether there is consistency between objectives and instruments and the practices we have today. I'm going to be the first to say that this is complicated. A lot of the most important thing we have to deal with is complicated, but it can't prevent this room from having more representatives who aim to get involved in the complicated, because this is where the main decisions for the framework of public administration take place. If we're not clear about what we want here, the administration's task becomes more complicated and I'm going to say worse. What is the matter here is that there are very strong instruments used under the Nature Diversity Act. There are incredibly strong instruments that are of great importance to the behaviour of a number of individuals in the use of land. The use of land has consequences for animals, for birds, for plants, for mushrooms – yes, the entire ecological universe. When we choose to use such a powerful instrument as the Nature Diversity Act provides, we should be reasonably confident that it is scientifically and scientifically anchored. If that is not the case, you will experience over time a lack of common understanding of the question, and thus it will be confusing – confused with those who are close to the reality that we are talking about here, who know it on the body, perhaps not with many of those who have the overall speech, but to me it is less important. If not those who know this on the body, those who feel it in practice, those who are biologists, those who use the land, those who are the public people who want to make sure that this becomes knowledge-based, they have an enthusiasm for what a do, because it's real and solid, we're out driving. The representative Jette Christensen said that knowledge gaps cannot be used to do nothing. I agree. I agree that you can't go that far when you have a lack of knowledge, that you shouldn't do anything. But there has to be a connection between at least the degree of action and the knowledge you have. This is where I am reasonably sure that this Chamber and the Norwegian people believe that the knowledge base for the strong tools that are put in place is much better than it really is. That's one of my main points. The knowledge base is not close enough to be strong enough when one chooses as strong an instrument as one does. And there are a number of people also in the public administration who get involved in this and spend their time doing it for pretty useless. There's talk of time thieves from the Right. Yeah, here we really have a time thief. The road service on Hedmark had to spend a lot of time on one that had been edged, and it was about legal proceedings and the whole thing, where a reasonably quick professional could see that the basis was not there for such a strong reaction. There is probably nothing out of it either, when one then has had a professional debate based on the specific nature. For the seventh and last, there is talk of the habitat of specific species, what promotes that species, and what dampens that species. We have to be reasonably clear about that. What I have said about the black-tailed pox and dragon head, I think it was necessary to say to try to get more people involved in a discussion about the consequences of what we're doing. Now there is a new nature that is out for consultation, whether or not to use the strong natural habitat type ‘selected’ instrument on it, and there is harvest forest. I don't know if the assembly here is aware of what a harvest forest is. It is not generally a forest that is harvested, but it is, as far as I have understood, a kind of deciduous forest: when in earlier times you used deciduous trees as feed for the animals, you cut them down and let the animals eat up the foliage, and then next year, or maybe the year after, you could chop it down again, and then the animals could eat up the foliage, and thus these trees got a special form. Yeah, it's special, and it's important to take care of cultural history. And I'm not going to say that someone shouldn't have a great sense of it. I have a great sense of soul for it and I'm trying to create an understanding that those who have such cultural memories take care of it as something rare, which is important to bring to the next generation. But the case of harvest forest is not a nature type in Norway, in the NiN-Styste, and there is no red list assessment of it. So what's the reason why it just came in? That's what you're wondering. I said that current practices for the management of funding for natural and outdoor diversity are based on inappropriate target criteria and lack the overall perspective necessary to support the overall objective of knowledge-based natural management. I stand by that very strongly. This was a desire to get a discussion, so that we get a bigger debate about what is the content of practice in this area. It is essential to achieve, because otherwise respect and understanding for this will crumble. I hope that when it's now a new government, you'll get to grips with these things and do something about it, so that we ensure that the administration is based on scientific knowledge, in the tradition we stand in, not that some interest groups can influence what can be done like that. It will over time lead to a weakening of the entire management mind, which is at the heart of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e492	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e506	The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation into Nav’s management of the organisation guarantee has been to assess how it has been used over the whole country, and to highlight circumstances that may explain any variation in its use. It has also been important to assess the extent to which the scheme has been followed up by the overall authority. The organisation guarantee shall provide disabled persons with the security to be provided with the assistance necessary for their disability to be required in the specific working situation. The guarantee scheme shall provide for a coordinated offer from the Staff Regulations and the necessary follow-up for the addition of disabled persons. However, there is reason to note that this scheme is not a legal guarantee, but primarily an instrument and a work methodology. The study identifies several serious conditions that require attention and follow-up. Firstly, no use has been made of the organisation guarantee. The content of the organisation guarantee also appears unclear to those who are to manage it, and Nav County does not appear to have adequately prioritised the work on the organisation guarantee. The management of the Nav offices follows up the work of the scheme only to a limited extent and there are significant weaknesses in the management information and follow-up of the scheme itself. The survey covers the period from the plan to nationwide in 2008 and until 2012. The background to the survey is that the level of employment of people with disabilities over time has been low, despite the fact that there has been a clear and expressed objective of increasing participation in the labour market for people with disabilities. In the period 2008–2011, the number of guarantees granted on a national basis increased from 100 in 2008 to 716 in 2011. In 2012, there was a further increase, to 3,563 guarantees. This year’s increase may have to be seen in the context of the implementation of the Job Strategy for people with disabilities. There is no doubt that the introduction of this new scheme also gave a different focus to the organisation guarantee than had been the case until then. Then a question can be asked as to why the scheme has been used so little, despite much agreement on the objective of increasing participation in the labour market for this particular group. The Committee has noted that there is considerable uncertainty about the content of the scheme itself. Lack of competence and, above all, priority have contributed to a continuing low level of professional participation among this group of people. Nor does it seem that the follow-up of the Nav offices to the users has been good enough. There are considerable variations from counties to counties and from Nav offices to Nav offices. The scheme itself appears to be little known among the current user group. In addition, too poor a job has been done against potential employers. And when you don't know a system, it's hard to put it into use. The coordination seen that Nav should be responsible for additional resources for the task and coordination of the supply of both the employer and the employee seems simply not to have been high enough as a matter of priority from Nav. Also, when not all county offices have even used the extra means allocated to the coordinator position, it says quite clearly that the result cannot be good. There are, therefore, good reasons for the Committee to point out the lack of focus on the critical nature of the allocation of resources and that the tasks in this field have not been adequately prioritised either. At all, the uncertainty about the content of the scheme itself seems to have spread throughout the organisation, giving rise to low priorities and poor results in this area. The organisation guarantee obliges the Working and Welfare Unit to provide rapid processing and individualised assistance. It is part of the guarantee that both the employer and the employee are assigned a permanent contact person with responsibility for follow-up and with whom they can seek advice, guidance and support. The study reveals that Nav's priorities have unfortunately been random. Some Nav offices have simply treated people more or less equally with and without a guarantee of organisation. Five years after the scheme has been put into effect, there seems to be still a high level of uncertainty about the content of the scheme, from the individual Nav office to the Nav County – and in fact to the management of the establishment. The Riksrevision study reinforces this impression that an evaluation or other means of obtaining systematic management information on the functioning of the scheme has not been carried out. So we know – as the Committee has chosen to emphasise – that when the knowledge base is insufficient, the management of the system cannot be satisfactory either. Weaknesses in management information will also reduce the possibilities for implementing important and corrective actions to make the scheme more targeted. In fact, the target group of the scheme is more than 500000 persons aged 15–66. In the first quarter of 2012, the number was 41 pst. of this group employed in gainful activities. Thus, more than half were out of work — and in a period of good economic activity and high demand for labour. In the deepest sense, this is about facilitating a more meaningful life for people on the outside of work, but also about using available human resources for socio-economic reasons. For the Christian People's Party, these too have been important target groups which we have proposed during several budgetary discussions to strengthen efforts towards. There are therefore good and urgent reasons why an overall committee, through its recommendation, expects the recommendations of the National Audit Office to be used as a basis for the further work to be carried out on the part of the State of Labour and Welfare in order for the organisation scheme to operate properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e532	I refer here to the rapporteur's very broad, correct and good presentation of the Committee's opinion and position on this matter. I take the word to underline the seriousness of what has been said. I also do that because we in the Control and Constitutional Committee have, for the first time in this period, but often in the previous period had, Nav for treatment and discussion on different bases. It is remarkable that when the Storting carries out its control task in relation to this part of Norwegian society, there are often quite serious comments about Nav’s exercise of the mandate that Nav has. We really have a very serious situation in front of us in this matter. We are talking here about something that this room has discussed very many times, and on which there is a broad consensus across all the political views of the Norwegian Magnificent, namely that we need to facilitate the entry into the labour market of people who have difficulty getting into it in the best possible way. Therefore, the Stortinget has adopted and determined what is thus called the bridging guarantee. It's also well funded, as it shows, but it doesn't work anyway. Now, of course, it should be said that there may be many individual challenges associated with this, for which of course I have respect. But what has been made visible by the rapporteur's good report and by the report submitted by the Riksrevision to the Stortinget, is that the guarantee has been used little after five years, that there is so much uncertainty as to how it should work, that it is not followed up enough, that the county offices do not inform the other offices of the need to take this seriously, and, as the case-rapporteur said, that there are indications that the ambiguities surrounding the practice and seriousness of the scheme go to the top of Nav. This is serious. What is also remarkable is this which relates to the fact that, despite the fact that we are dealing with Nav in different ways – as I said – time and time again in Stortinget. This, I think, hands across all party divisions, and also across government issues. I look at my great satisfaction that the government is very well represented here. And that's fine. It's to say to the government representatives that the Storting has a very heavy attention to Nav's practice. As the chairman of the committee – and I should not say that often, because it sounds a little special – I would like to tell the government that you have to deal with Nav in a concrete way. It is not that we can discuss this time and again and again in Stortinget, and have as strong comments as what is written, and as the case-rapporteur has now presented in his own way, without it being followed up. It's a frustration, which at least I feel pretty strong – that's that it doesn't really help what we say, because it just goes on. So this is about weak groups in society – I have to be allowed to say it, even if it's not meant to be in the meaning of the word – and it's the Storting's will that they get help to get to work. It's made system, it's granted money, but it's not being followed up. It's a problem we can't live with. That is why the Committee, in the way we have now explained, has said such heavy things as we have said on this issue. We hope now that we get a better report at the next crossroads in dealing with this important matter for the Norwegian community and for the individual human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e549	First, I can try to help the chairman of the committee with one word. I use the word «difficult» instead of the term «weak groups». I think that describes reality a lot more, because it's more about a position in society than about some people or groups being weaker than others. So to the matter: otherwise, I fully agree with what both the representative of Kolberg and the case rapporteur said about the matter. What is saying about it is that for many years this has also been very much political attention about it. The Council of State sits here – we have been sitting on the same committee and working – and I know that there has been some unanimity on most, at least on what is involved in these things. And I've been sitting and working on it for many years from Stortinget, but sometimes I don't know what comes out at the other end of what I've been agreeing to. That's why I think this is important. The Stortinget has made very clear decisions here, including: to grant money directly to coordinator positions that would follow up this guarantee. So it turns out it's not done. I have to say that is quite outrageous at a time when we know that there are people who most of all in their life want to get a job and who don't get help with it. So this has to be followed up. The Control Committee has not discussed other things at Nav this time than this specific matter that lies here – and it is serious enough – but I just need to say that I have seen a pattern in this. I wonder if it is the form of governance in itself that is difficult – i.e. the management of the directorate, which means that there are too many links between those who decide and those who have to do the job in practice. It's obviously a room for deprioritising or at all not doing the things that the Storting has decided, and I think that's quite serious. That is why I would also encourage the Council of State, which I know has worked a lot on these issues and has a good knowledge of them, and has been involved in these decisions in the Stortinget, to look at how this governance dialogue is going to be conducted, so that what the Stortinget decides – even unanimously – is actually implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e560	I will first be allowed to say thank you for the good points and not least the recordings. The National Audit Office's report is ready. I just want to announce that the government is very busy making sure that we get good arrangements on the organisation guarantee, precisely to succeed much more in getting people out of work into the labour market. That's why this is important. I would also like to remind you that the figures presented here and the evaluation carried out are for the financial year 2012, i.e. from last year. We have already started working to look at how we can make the organisation guarantee more accessible and better known, because it is absolutely essential and important to know the scheme and have good practice in all states, so that everyone who is entitled to use the scheme is helped in a good way. We're looking at how we can get this better. I would also like to remind you that both the previous government and the new government intend to follow up an evaluation of the organisation guarantee scheme and also the evaluation of the job strategy. Finally, I just want to remind you that the government will conduct an overall review of Nav during the period, just to ensure that we get a hub that is more capable of dealing with the user perspective in a better, less bureaucratic and more efficient way for users. It is a great and important work in which I hope the Stortinge participates constructively and well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e571	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e585	It is an overall committee that would stress the importance of a correct system for the determination of VAT. There are large sums we are talking about – VAT is about 30 pst. of the total income from taxes and taxes from mainland Norway, and we think it is good and proper that the Riksaudition has examined the control of VAT collection by the tax authorities. The VAT system is based on trust between authorities and industry and must be subject to appropriate and good control. However, we believe that the VAT control system needs to take more into account. A trust-based system will always rely primarily on the individual trader to comply with the rules and to declare correctly. It can lead to both unconscious and conscious errors. Therefore, controls must be so extensive as to reduce the temptation to circumvent the rules, while maintaining confidence in the individual. The National Audit Office’s study points to several weaknesses in the control of VAT and has found several improvement points that they believe should be followed up. It is also important for me to find out that the Ministry has clearly stated that they will follow up the National Audit Office’s comments and recommendations through the governance dialogue with the responsible tax authorities. The Committee agrees and stresses the need for this to be achieved. The findings of the National Audit Office deal with both the selection of declarations for control, the simplified exchange of information within and between the departments, ICT systems that limit efficiency and the verification of the VAT register. I record that the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance weigh the severity of the weaknesses of the systems somewhat differently. I'll say that it can be natural. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is very good that the Ministry of Finance so clearly stated in its reply to the National Audit Office, which is presented to the Stortinget, nevertheless expresses great agreement on the importance of the weaknesses that have been revealed, and that these should be corrected. The Committee is pleased with this. There is also a strong consensus that it is unfortunate that the requirement of non-discrimination in the use of additional charges has not been met. A circumvention or failure to pay correctly must be accompanied by penalties. The penalties applied in the form of additional charges must be uniform. One of the most serious things we found presented in this case is that there are too many variations in the way the different offices react. It is a challenge for what might be called a lack of legal certainty that there is a non-discrimination that is not adequately addressed. I assume that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance take this seriously and specifically, and ensure that it is corrected in the future. The tax rate and the tax rate will always face demanding challenges in their work priorities in order to ensure a fair and sound system for the control of VAT. With that perspective in mind, I am pleased with the Riksrevision's investigation, and of course that the department is following up the weaknesses that have been revealed – and that this is being done in a good, accurate and correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e606	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a precise presentation of the Committee's position. However, I needed to underline one more of the points made by the rapporteur, and it is about this with the administration and equality of the criminal element in the administration. It is true that in Norway, after the war — in particular — without particularly legal discussion — we have received an administration that punishes more than the ordinary criminal system with which we are well-known, providing procedural security for those who are under investigation or accused. It's openness, it's contradiction and it's not the same body that claims to be a fact, that measures the punishment, or that executes the sanctions. All of this is a lack of administrative criminal law. I believe that once we have committed ourselves to an administration that is more than previously punishable by punishment, it is also reasonable that we develop an administrative criminal law that gives those who are in trouble – in the searchlight – the same procedural possibilities to defend themselves as what we otherwise take for granted as part of our legal security system. This is underlined again in the recommendations of the Riksrevision on page 3 of the recommendation, the second indent, namely that it is recommended that: ‘The Ministry of Finance should follow up the application by the tax administration of measures to ensure non-discrimination in the use of additional charges in task control.’;» It's quite elementary. One thing is that there should be equality of law – that the same support should be measured in the same way – but even more important if there is to be punishment and reprisals against someone. It is also obvious that similar offences should lead to equal penalties. In this context, there may also be a point to develop a common administrative right that takes into account fundamental legal certainty guarantees, regardless of the administrative body to which it is subject. One part of this is, of course, that these agencies are developing a common precedent archive for the whole country, so that, if you think it's a criminal offence, you'll realize what is correct measurement based on the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e622	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e636	I would like to point out, on behalf of the Committee, that the overall objective of the National Audit Office's study has been to highlight whether the grants to the arts areas of stage art, music and visual art are appropriately designed, managed and followed up by the grant managers and the ministry on the basis of the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The study includes the appropriations managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council, the State Arts Grant and the Audio and Video Foundation. For 2012, these appropriations amounted to a total of 580 million. kr, i.e. an increase of 215 million. kr since 2006. The Committee has noted that there has been a significant increase in grants to Norwegian cultural funds during the period, but that there are differences in the geographical distribution of grants. The Committee points out that there are weaknesses in the grant management of the Norwegian Cultural Council and that the application procedure has not been sufficiently documented. The Committee also points out that the Norwegian Cultural Council does not have sufficient follow-up and information on the use of the grants. The Committee has also noted that the governing body of the Ministry of Culture has not sufficiently ensured satisfactory grant management. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the Riksrevision concludes that the Ministry of Culture should have a more active collection of systematic and aggregated information on the use of the grant funds in order to ensure the efficient and appropriate functioning of the grant management and that the objectives and performance requirements for the schemes are met. However, the Committee is aware that the Norwegian Cultural Council has taken action and made changes to ensure better achievement of its objectives. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision recommends that the Norwegian Cultural Council should consider gaining more knowledge on the causes of the major regional differences in the distribution of funding and, in this context, implement appropriate cohesion measures. In the introduction of a new application and processing system, the Norwegian Culture Council should establish systems and procedures that provide better evidence of the means and the achievement of the objectives of each grant scheme, while taking the utmost account of the users of the scheme. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision’s recommendation on a more active collection of systematic and aggregated information on the use of grant funds will be followed up by the establishment of an electronic application and procedure system for the Norwegian Cultural Council in 2013. The Committee has noted that measures have been put in place to improve the geographical distribution of both applications and grants, including: through the development of websites, regional meetings and outreach activities against county municipalities where there are few applications and grants, and are satisfied with this initiative. However, geographical distribution needs to be seen in the context of Norwegian Cultural Council grants based on artistic and cultural judgement and, therefore, it may be natural that there are variations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e657	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review of the Committee's comments, and I do not disagree with him in any of his comments. I take the floor to stress the Committee's last comments on the matter. From 2006 to 2012, the grants granted through Norsk Kulturfonds have more than doubled. We in the Workers' Party will bring this forward as unfavorably positive – for art, culture, audience and democracy. I Prop. 1 S for 2013–2014, the Red-Green Government formulated that a central objective of cultural policy is to facilitate access for all to a wide range of artistic and cultural services. The public exposure shall include, inter alia: contribute to the reduction of geographic dividing lines. Nevertheless, we now experience in the National Audit Office's report that the allocation of grants by the Council of Culture is geographically different. Why in the world is it like this? Why is Oslo so high on the grant allocation per capita? Is there anything in the air here? Is there anything about Karl Johan, with Marka, with the great differences in living conditions from east to west here that is particularly suitable for cultivating artistic abilities of the highest quality? Is it all the business, the huge selection of tight pants and main-purpose jackets that make the versatility flourish? Is there the number of inches of asphalt you trample in your childhood, that determines whether the cultural blood is showering in a body? Is it particularly artistic to drink coffee from milk glass and pay 45 kroner for the cup? I don't think so. The Culture Council itself explains the distribution with the following: Several applicants have an address for residence and dispatch in Oslo and in major cities. In statistics, the address of dispatch is recorded, while project development, production and dissemination are carried out in other counties throughout the country. It's reassuring. There are different ways of assessing the coherence between the number of applications and grants and the ratios between the application amount and the grant amount when assessing geographical distribution. Here, for example, there are regions such as Sogn and Fjordane, Finnmark, Troms and Buskerud, which then receive a higher allocation than Oslo. The Year Survey shows that most professional artists live and work in the big cities, and especially in Oslo. There are also several central nation-wide organisations here. It is important to note that these have addresses in Oslo and other major cities, but convey projects throughout the country. As the rapporteur pointed out, the Norwegian Cultural Council assesses applications on the basis of artistic and cultural judgement, and geographical distribution of these allocations must also be seen in the context of quality and relevance requirements. This adjusts the image a little. However, it is worrying to read the Council of Culture's explanation for something else, namely that there is also geographical inequality in the allocation rate. This is explained in the Riksrevision report with: ‘the cultural infrastructure and traditions of the peoples. Where an artistic environment is established with artists who know Norwegian Cultural Councils, the percentage of admission will be higher than in those countries where the activities are less known and where the artistic environment is more fragmented.’ What is the nature of infrastructure and traditions that mean that less funding is allocated by the Council of Culture than by other states? It sounds at best strange and is enormously crooked formulated and, in worst cases, substituting. Of course, getting a grant requires that you know what to apply for, that you can apply for it, how to apply, who and when. It is not the problem of the practitioners that this information is not well known. That is the problem of all of us, and it is in particular the responsibility of the Council of Culture to disseminate that information. It should not be dependent on the applicants asking the right questions, it is the job of the Culture Council to tell. Fortunately, a greater effort is being made to correct this. The lowest counties in 2006 have now increased most. At the same time, measures have also been put in place to correct and improve the geographical distribution of both applications and grants, including: through the development of websites, regional meetings and outreach activities against county municipalities where there are few applications and grants. I would just like to stress the Committee's comment that we are satisfied with that initiative and that we expect concrete results from that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e689	This is a unanimous committee and it's important, because what we're saying here is that we want a better geographical spread of the cultural effort than what we get today with the allocation we have. The reason why I choose to speak in the matter is that I perceive that the government in many other areas has a policy in which they say that they should strengthen what is already strong. I hope it doesn't apply in this area. In that case, it is contrary to what a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs says in this case. So there might be reasons why some people who have heavy, national institutions and have subsidies for it, turn out to be in such distributions, but nevertheless the distribution is biased. There is no doubt that both talents and activity are triggered by the granting of state and government grants to culture, because if you want to develop something, you have to do it. That's the way it is in all areas. And then I'm very happy that the committee has been unanimous in this, and that they say that this is a weakness, a skepticism, and that it's a unanimous big thing that says this should be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e698	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e712	The National Audit Office’s survey of the Norwegian EEA funds covers the planning and implementation of the EEA financial instruments for the period 2004-2009 and for the period 2009-2014 – in other words, over a 10-year period. The aim of the study has been to assess the extent to which the Norwegian-funded part of the EEA financial instruments contributes to the overall objective of social and economic cohesion in the EEA region. For the period 2009–2014, the overall objective is also to strengthen bilateral relations between actors in Norway and the beneficiary countries. The EEA funds should thus help support positive developments in the recipient countries and strengthen contact with Norway. The EEA financial instruments include Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Norway stands for 97 pst. of the financing and will contribute approximately to this ten-year period. 24 B.C.E. kr – or approx. 2.4 B.C.E. kr on average per year. 2.4 B.C.E. kr annually is a lot of money, and one must assume that the funds are managed in such a way that the overall objectives set for the EEA financial instruments are met. The National Audit Office’s study shows that the funds are used as intended, but the effects achieved are uncertain. The funds are spread across a wide range of sectors and individual projects, and for the period 2004–09 the funds are spread across 15 countries, including the 12 most recent EU Member States. Over the ten-year period 2004–2014, Norway has contributed funds to 1,200 different projects in 15 EU Member States. This suggests that it is a challenge to manage so many projects across so many different sectors and countries where the degree of complexity is sometimes quite high. Actions include environmental protection and sustainable development, the conservation of European cultural heritage, the development of human resources, health and children, academic research and scholarships, Schengen and judicial cooperation, regional development and cross-border cooperation and ultimately civil society. The projects that have been run during this period have been run according to a project-based model. Over the period 2009-2014, the Ministry moved to a programme-based management model and, in addition to the above-mentioned areas of action, it will also include climate and renewable energy, asylum and migration, gender equality, green business development, promotion of decent working life and tripartite cooperation and domestic affairs. The programme model introduced for the last period provides a new level of administration in the beneficiary countries, with programme operators and programme partners. This in turn contributes to increased administrative costs. In its comments, the Committee stressed that a complex management model with many actors requires an active follow-up by the Ministry. The Committee is satisfied that continuous efforts are being made to make the new programme model as cost-effective as possible and requires that a maximum share of the funds be allocated to programmes and projects in the Member States and not to increased administrative costs. A high cost level in Norway means that the proportion of the project funds allocated to the beneficiary country by the Norwegian project partner is reduced and, as a possible consequence, there may be a limited interest in project cooperation in the beneficiary countries. Otherwise, the new programme-based management model will delay projects due to capacity challenges of the Financial Mechanism Office and poor quality of some of the programme proposals from the beneficiary countries. In order to maximise the impact of the funds, the Committee is in favour of facilitating more concentrated and targeted efforts and fewer projects. In the follow-up to the National Audit Office's report, the Council of State states that quality assurance and performance will continue to be a high priority in the Ministry's management of EEA funds and that the recommendations and studies of the National Audit Office will be actively used in this work. I find this reassuring, and I would recommend the Storting to join in the unanimous vote of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e740	I take the word to underline the objective of these means. The point of doing so is, of course, contributing to social and economic cohesion in the EEA area and helping to strengthen bilateral relations between Norway and the beneficiary countries. This is important, and when the Riksrevision then says they're not sure how this actually works, it might be that exactly these things are difficult to measure. So one of the questions here is the systems you implement these projects on, and the other is how to measure any effect of this. And there are also discussions about how to for example. measures social and economic smoothing in the area, depending on the number of measurement parameters. What is extremely important to emphasise is that the social measures taken and strengthened by Norway must actually work. The reason why I say that is that we have had a desire to strengthen the proportion of EEA funds, including: to go to the Roma, because we know that these are the poorest people on the continent, that they are partially subjected to poor follow-up from their homelands, and that it is possible for countries to participate in such positive projects at the same time as they – with the other hand – have a policy that makes people actually more difficult, that there is an underlying desire for people to leave. I choose to say this because I know it's like this, and it's very serious. This is a population that has experienced — and over the centuries has experienced — exclusion, exclusion, persecution and lack of inclusion in very many countries, even in those nations where very many are actually citizens. There are quite a few stateless space people, but there are also many who have citizenship. I choose to say this because I'm thinking a little bit about how, through Norwegian control mechanisms, you should be able to check how a Norwegian effort in this area actually works. We'll get back to that, but it's very important that we step up our efforts in these areas. But then it is also extremely important that, in that job, we examine that we do not put money into projects where the beneficiary countries, in other policy areas, contribute to another policy by the nation state tearing away our legs under what we spend on improving social conditions, for example. for the space population.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e749	First: Thank you to the Committee for a good contribution to the follow-up to the Riksrevision report. As pointed out, the EEA Financial Mechanism is an expression of Norway’s participation in the internal market and its support for its development through its contribution to social and economic cohesion in Europe. The funds also support our bilateral cooperation with the recipient countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs wants to use this study actively to both improve current arrangements and strengthen the arrangements for any new arrangements. The work on following up the specific recommendations has already begun. Firstly, we want to focus on strengthening the target and performance management of EEA funds in order to ensure good target achievement. Of course, what Andersen’s representative addressed about the impact of different measures is a difficult and complex issue. I think we should be honest about that. We also know from our own country that it is not always easy to document the relationship between some social interventions and different social outcomes. However, what we need to keep a close eye on is precisely the case where the programme and the objectives of the projects may find themselves in conflict with local policy in the countries where the projects are being implemented. We have seen such potential contradictions, and then I think it is important that we address them – not only from the programme and project sides, but also through political dialogue, because these are the means that are there to serve overall policy objectives. Secondly, we will have a continuous searchlight on administrative costs, with the aim of maximising the funds to the benefit of beneficiary countries. It is necessary to ensure sufficient capacity on our side for good governance, follow-up and control, and therefore administrative costs and means of professional assistance are important, but of course administrative costs must be kept to the lowest possible level. Thirdly, we will further develop this management model that we believe works well and is a good response to the management of these funds, to ensure that control needs are met, and – once again – that we achieve the objectives we set ourselves. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the other donor countries, will work continuously to improve and strengthen this management model.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e766	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e780	That's a natural thing to say, but I'll say it first anyway. Of course, all issues dealt with in the Storting are important, but I want to pay particular attention to this matter, because it shows a challenge we face in Norwegian administration that is often up to discussion, both in the large public space and in the political environment: Why is things much more expensive than what was decided when the different projects were adopted? Why is it later that what was planned was not planned in a sufficiently good way? It is a challenge for all of us – especially for the Storting, who will take overall decisions on how society will evolve. I say this on the basis of a once again very good report from the National Audit Office, which addresses this issue in a broad and very satisfactory way, in the opinion of the Committee. This is again a unanimous position by the Control Committee, and there are no political disagreements about the issues dealt with by the report or the conclusions drawn by the Committee in its comments. I fully agree – on behalf of the Committee – with the starting point of the National Audit Office for the investigation and would like to stress that for the Storting, and of course also for the Government, it is of great importance that the decision-making basis for a decision is correct and, above all, important. An incorrect or false decision-making basis could lead to the failure to achieve the objectives set and the unintended impact of measures on interested parties. In order to ensure a sound decision-making basis, adequate target and problem analyses must be carried out, alternative instruments must be assessed and, in particular, the impact of a decision must be assessed before the adoption of measures. On the other hand, examples not only give rise to head noise in the population, but also in those of us who are responsible. We're not good at things where, for example, a hospital is built to meet an increasing need but which turns out to be too small before completion. That's an example of what I'm talking about: the seriousness of the failure of planning, as the Riksrevision in the report points out to Stortinget. The National Audit Office has carried out an in-depth study of five public actions in different departments. These include the most common types of measures. It is about laws, regulations, reforms and investment measures, with consequences for government levels, county councils, municipalities, business and private. The choice of measures is based on timeliness and materiality. In order to provide a more general picture of the investigations, quantitative data and data from studies carried out by the administration itself have also been used. The study shows that there are significant weaknesses in the investigation work. In particular, I would like to emphasise and stress that the impact on businesses and municipalities of different measures is given little attention before decisions are taken. A Joint Committee, like the National Audit Office, would therefore refer to the requirement of the investigation document to include impact assessments on State, county and municipal administration and on private, including business and individuals. As I said at the outset, the Committee supports the concerns of the National Audit Office that lack of impact assessments can give decision-makers a lack of transparency and a lack of awareness of the impact of measures and the possible taxes they may impose on municipalities or businesses. The lack of socio-economic impact, as identified by the National Audit Office in its report, makes it difficult to rank and prioritise different instruments and actions. Similarly, the absence of alternative instruments in decision-making documents provides a basis for asking questions about whether the Storing and the Government have an adequate basis for decision-making in important cases. I'll repeat that sentence. A joint control committee says: ‘In the same way, the absence of alternative instruments in decision-making documents provides a basis for asking questions about whether Storing and Government obtains an adequate basis for decision-making in important cases.’ It's a serious sentence. The problem is not the lack of services to ensure adequate investigation. There are several of them. The purpose of the investigatory guide is to inform about the applicable legislation and to provide advice and guidance in order to improve the understanding of the requirements for good investigation work. The Ministry of Finance’s guidance in socio-economic analyses aims at making recommendations on how to design socio-economic analyses of public actions and reforms. The Directorate for Economic Management is intended to be a driver for increasing the competence and implementation of socio-economic analyses. The Departments’ Panel on Economic Impact Assessment supports and advises on the analysis of the economic impact of public reforms, regulatory changes, investments, etc., and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Church is responsible for the secretariat function of the panel on the basis of the Ministry’s responsibility for the investigative instructions. But nevertheless, the report says that it is not done well enough, and that the quality is varying. After the committee's examination and review of the substance we've had at our disposal, we find reason to support such criticism. The National Audit Office points out that this is partly due to the fact that agencies, such as The Directorate for Economic Management and the Trade Panel is not used and, on the one hand, that investigative instructions and guidance are not clear and unambiguous enough. Of course, this too is serious. Decisions shall not depend on the understanding of the investigative instructions by individual ministries on how to use them. It's not up to the individual department. That is what the Stortinget has decided, and it is up to the government as a collegiate body to ensure that these provisions are complied with. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs has informed the National Audit Office that the findings have been taken seriously and that the Ministry has started work on correcting these deficiencies. I am pleased that the work on the organisation of impact studies is under way and that the efforts to strengthen the control of investigations in order to ensure adequate quality are being followed up as part of this. Finally, I would like to make a very clear recommendation to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and its Minister, as I see being present here today, to take this report very seriously. It has to do with the whole decision-making base for both magnification and Norwegian administration, and it is of great importance that, as the Riksrevision points out, it is improved and as the Committee has unanimously agreed. I also allow myself, as we are now approaching the end of the examination of the matters of the control committee, from the pulpit of the Stortinge to express a thank you to National Auditor Kosmo, who is sitting here, for his efforts, which expires on 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e827	In the same positive spirit towards the Riksrevision, I must also praise the House for presenting in this document some of the most interesting and thought-provoking things that have been presented, at least in my time in the Committee. This depth study was very interesting to read. So this selection of five areas where you're dealing with the whole history is absolutely thoughtful. You can, as the rapporteur pointed out, ask for a formal procedure – following the investigation guide – which is also very important. You can also, at a more humble moment, address some of the criticisms of the political system as such. I've reflected a little bit on this. I've seen some decision-making documents in my life. I've been so lucky to be on the board of listed companies, where big decisions have also been made. But there have been no political documents in that sense, and I want to say that it distinguishes them from part of the political decision-making documents that we get – whether in committee or otherwise in the House – because they obviously contain a presentation of the matter, the actual need to do something, but at the same time the political documents will also contain a strong element of sale. Everyone knows that when you're going to sell something, there's not much room for doubt. Then you have a conclusion. But when you're investigating something, you're just going to have to express your doubts. A policy sales document will also focus on one solution, while a proper investigation will point to several solutions. The sales document will also exaggerate the benefits in the future in the form of savings, benefits for third parties, while a decision-making document will point out that they may also have negative external effects. It is not always so convenient for us who are engaged in politics, to have to take into account that there may be uncertainty here, or that it is not certain that in all areas we will achieve what we in our most exciting moments sell the matter. Maybe together, we can develop a political culture where we can more honestly talk about what's against it and make a decision. There are at all some contexts in which there is simply faith in policies that separate the water in the hall; this is not all that is made up of joint decisions, taken from the private sector, where resources could have been used as an alternative, which is well-focused. But again, I would like to thank the National Audit Office for making an exceptionally interesting contribution, also to the political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e836	Let me start by stressing that I agree with both the representative of Kolberg and the representative of Tetzschner. Here we have a common interest in getting the best decision base possible. I also agree that this is an important matter. It's an important report. Not least, the debate on it itself is important. The Government is concerned that the basis for decision-making in the administration should be as high as possible before the decisions are taken. At the same time, we are committed to streamlining management. This doesn't have to be a contradiction. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that it may also be a side of the same matter. The report from the National Audit Office is an important document that we place great emphasis on in our efforts to improve the decision-making base of the administration, and I am also pleased that it is a unanimous committee that has drawn the end of today. I would also like to add that the Directorate of Administration and ICT, namely Diffi, has essentially the same assessments and conclusions as the Riksrevision in the report ‘Graves it deep enough — About the investigation work in the departments’, which was presented in May 2012. We've started a three-track job. We want to improve the investigation manual in terms of both language, form and content. We will assess whether we can introduce incentives to comply with the instructions, and in what case it should be, and we will assess competence measures. Management and competence are important, including in the field of investigation and decision-making. The investigation manual shall be easier to follow. It's an important premise in the work we've been doing. At the same time, of course, the essential requirements will be firm. It is about assessing alternatives, assessing what is the best measure to achieve the objective, highlighting the impact of action, involving civil society and conducting general consultations. We want the new instructions to set clear targets, but that it will be up to businesses to find the right means. Another point that I would like to stress is that not all matters should be treated equally. The case-handling resources need to be weighed against the risks and materialities of the case, i.e.: say, for example, how much impact it has, how much costs are and how many are affected. We will continue to work on this important issue and value both the report of the Riksrevision and not least the unanimous opinion expressed in the Committee today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e851	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e865	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e880	The floor will be given to the representative, Mr Are Health, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Eldegard.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e883	The background for each year's Stortinget getting Meld. St. 4 from the position of the Prime Minister’s office – and the Committee on Control – we find in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 14 nr. 9(b). It is assumed that the government will present an annual report on the follow-up to the request and investigation decisions of the Stortinget. The notification shall briefly explain what the Government has done or intends to do with decisions taken by the Stortinget. The origin of these notifications is the establishment in 1999 of a new procedure to verify the follow-up by the government to the Storting's instructions. It is important to ensure that the decisions of the Grand Duchy are followed up and that the Grand Duchy is given the opportunity to monitor the progress made in the implementation of each decision and the experience gained during those years has been positive. In this year’s communication, as in previous years, the Prime Minister’s Office has obtained opinions from the respective ministries on the follow-up and examination of the decisions of the 2012–2013 Depository Session. Decisions that were informed in the course of last year that we would follow up later have also been included in the message that we are processing today. 23 Decisions from 2011 to 2012 and 2 Decisions from 2010 to 2011. It is underlined in the Communication that the Stortinge will receive a clear feedback on the follow-up of individual request decisions by the Government. Let me add that no investigation decisions have been promoted in this period. However, the Committee has noted that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of the United Kingdom has asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out an investigation into the benefits and disadvantages of ratifying the Additional Protocol on Individual Complaints to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will refer the matter to the Storting at the end of the consultation round. 25 request decisions have been submitted during the notification period. 12 of these can be signed out. Of the 23 decisions taken last year, 22 can be accepted. These are the request decisions of the Special Committee dealing with statements by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence on the attacks on 22 July 2011 and the request decisions resulting from the environmental agreement in Stortinget. One case from 2011 to 2012 which cannot be supported today is a request on the basis of a case from the Control and Constitutional Committee in which the Ministry of Justice and Defence was asked to ensure that the basis for the INFOFLYT register was corrected. The notification sets out two decisions of the 2010–2011 Storing Session, one of which can be accepted, and one will be followed up. In the course of its examination of the matter, the Committee sent letters to the Enlarged Committees concerned by the request decisions referred to in the communication. The Energy and Environment Committee, in its response, has explained how all the request decisions resulting from the Environment Agreement in the Storting have been followed up. None of the other committees has commented. There has been no disagreement in the committee and the vote is unanimous. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e906	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e922	The public sector is today much more complex than before. There has been a strong growth in public tasks, with increasing challenges in the organisation of public actions and services. How can we contribute to the development of a comprehensive and sustainable innovation system to meet the complexity and future challenges of the public sector? In particular, this applies to interaction with industry and civil society, in order to meet the needs of users. There are considerable potentials in the interaction between new technologies and new forms of organisation and work. ‘Innovations are new or significantly improved goods, services, processes, forms of organisation or marketing models used to achieve value creation and/or societal benefits’ according to the Research Council. The definition points out that a new idea or invention does not become an innovation until it has come into practical application. This also illustrates the distinction between research and innovation. Traditionally, innovation is mainly about the development of new products and services in the private sector, often in high-tech industries. In recent years, however, innovation in services has become more prominent as a concept. As a result of the very important role played by the public sector as a service producer, public sector innovation has gradually become more and more central. The number of persons employed in the public sector in Norway is now around 800000. We have almost 3,500 publicly owned enterprises, which have almost 140,000 employees. The government has a cost side approaching 1,500 billion. kr. The Research Council has reviewed its R & D projects, which may give some indication of the extent of public sector innovation in Norway. The starting point is innovation, research and competence projects that are, or have been, active in 2010 or 2011 and in which the public sector participates either as a contracting partner or as a cooperating partner. The review shows that there have been fewer than 200 projects supported by the Research Council of more than 1.5 billion. kr. Projects have a lifetime of three to five years and thus average funding per year is approximately. 300-400 million. kr. Environment, climate and energy are the most dominant areas in this overview, including petroleum research. Competence projects are particularly dominant in this sector. A quarter of these are in the RENERGI programme, and power companies form an essential part of the cooperation partners. Transport/communication is another major category. There are also ICT projects here. There, innovation projects represent the largest share. The cooperation partners here are both municipalities and county municipalities, which are responsible for track, road and collective provision, and state actors, such as the State Road Service, the Railway Agency and the Coastal Works. Over the next decades, our health, care and welfare services will have to undergo extensive changes as a result of an increasing proportion of older people. On the expenditure side of the State budget, these so-called soft services represent a large proportion. The care sector appears to be an area that has almost not been the subject of research efforts. As pointed out by the Hagen Committee, research funding for the care sector is currently well below 1 per million of the total budget. The Hagen committee recommends that this be raised to 1 pst. by the budget for research, development and innovation, and the establishment of a national database linked to a comprehensive research project. A Danish study of public sector innovation shows that a number of conditions at all levels are prejudicial to innovation. Barriers include: to do with lack of vision and conservatism from the political side – we are thus one of the bad conditions for creative experiments organisational silhouette thinking strong professional environments lack of measurement of innovation and a zero error-oriented working culture – speaking of today’s debate from the Control and Constitutional Committee. Much of the public sector is decentralised, and much of the administrative and service provision is channelled through the municipal sector, in units of varying size and with different resources for innovation work. Despite a great deal of experimentation, change and innovation work in the public sector, there are weak systems to share resources, spread test results wider and bring trials into general practice. Many innovation challenges lie in the intersection of the public sector, as defined, and civil society and the rights and obligations we have as citizens. User involvement in research and innovation is particularly important in the public sector, but who are relevant users and how participation can be implemented is often complicated. In Denmark, creative innovation in the public sector has been sought institutionalised by MindLab – a cross-ministerial development unit established by the government. MindLab's task is to implement various development initiatives in the Ministry of Taxation, the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Business and Growth. MindLab shall contribute to the dissemination of user-driven innovation experience in the public sector in general. In Norway, the KS and NHO, together with several ministries and state actors, have a rolling National Supply Development Programme, where 40 innovative acquisitions are to be carried out over five years. Divi has also established acquisitions.no and a public procurement guide. I've had the pleasure of following innovation projects where municipal actors have been involved. I am therefore particularly concerned with innovation in the municipal sector, it be well-being, care and education, but not least the slightly under-communicated parts of the municipal sector, such as the technical sector, the environment, preparedness and social security. The latter have in common that they were very central to the reasons of the Schei Committee for the municipal reform in the mid-1960s. They share today's view that they are very fragmented in the state administration and administration structure, with many both departments and Directorates to deal with. In municipalities, both the water and waste setaside and the waste setaside are self-financed. They are organised differently, and there are discussions from municipalities to municipalities about what can be included in the waste charge. Can innovation be financed by the waste charge? I keep asking myself why we have thousands of debris in Norway that sweats methane, but almost none that has a collection system that leads the gas to a turbine. I have followed the technical status of Eidsvoll Municipality on the way to becoming energy neutral and become the first municipality with green electricity certificates based on energy production from water and sewerage. With water turbines in case of waterworks and biogas turbines in the waste water treatment plant, they are currently producing more renewable energy than they need to operate municipal technical installations, including street lights. Recently I visited the municipality of Eid. There I got an introduction to the fjord heating project in Eid, which is initiated by the municipality of Eid. Many public buildings, commercial buildings and some private households are supplied with heating, hot water and cooling. The potential for such projects in Norway has been estimated at 16 TWh. Despite this, there are few similar projects. Organisation, management and political courage have been current issues in these projects, but not decisive. The most important has been the involvement, competence and risk-taking of employees. Not all public entities have a culture that gives room for innovation and risk. I think we have to challenge ourselves to think differently about this in the public sector. Then we have to introduce legislation on acquisitions, create incentives for innovation and risk-taking among both employees and managers in the municipal sector, and increase competence among both employees and politicians. In addition, we need to look at funding and instruments to trigger innovation and innovation in the public sector. In the municipal sector, the Municipal Bank is an important instrument for financing. They have introduced so-called green interest rates on some environmentally friendly investments. Can we use the Municipal Bank to bring out more innovation and more innovative acquisitions? Is there any grant scheme that we can design even more targeted, including: within Enova and Transnova? Do we really have any similar body in care and care? Can we use self-cost more actively than today to finance innovation, development and better services? And are we going to consider some kind of cash support for public actors that succeed in innovation, under given conditions? Most public actors are not in the tax position and are therefore not granted access to tax credits for development costs. The regional research funds are also under the municipal department's portfolio, in partnership with the counties. Is this a proper tool? And is there enough capital to contribute to innovation and development? Innovation Norway also has an instrument in the so-called OFU contracts. A review of this is also in place. My poor hypothesis is that these are not used in the municipal sector, much because of both skills challenges and capacity challenges. We are relatively good at pilot projects in Norway, but research shows that we are similarly poor at implementing and distributing the benefits. This is both a political and an organisational challenge, which we must take seriously – that, as politicians, sometimes we must not be so evolutionary, pending implementation. Sometimes we're going to be very busy. Now we are here today discussing whether we might press both the gas and the brake at the same time, while developing the municipal sector of the future. It is in this light that I and the Left want to challenge the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to facilitate increased innovation – in the public sector in general and in the municipal sector in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e997	I would like to start by thanking the representative, Mr Kjeseth, for taking the initiative in this inter-pelling debate – on how the public sector is equipped to meet different challenges in the years ahead. In particular, it is useful to raise the question of the role that innovation can play in developing the public sector, which should be characterised by quality, adaptability and efficiency. The representative raises important issues related to both health and the care sector and the major climate and environmental challenges. For a long time it has been that when we discuss issues related to the public sector, there have been more questions about how much money is allocated than what results we achieve. I share the representative's view that it is important that we put innovation in the public sector on the agenda – both in the public sector in general and in the municipal sector in particular – in order to look for new and better ways to solve these problems. Without a public sector in its best interests, we will not be able to develop Norway, lay the basis for healthy welfare and good value creation. This ambition is reflected both in the cooperation agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left and in the government statement by Sundvollen. I think we can agree on some key premises for the discussion the representative is going to. The first premise is that we need an innovative and changeable public sector. The citizens will demand new, better and more custom-made services. Some think this is about a simple efficiency. That's wrong. We want to make use of the diverse competences of managers and employees. We're not going any faster, but we're going to work smarter. We need to use technology and knowledge across trades, learn from others who have done innovative things, both at home in Norway and abroad, and we need to involve users. It will then be more exciting for employees, more meaningful for politicians and better solutions for users. The second premise is: public acquisitions of goods and services amount to 400 billion. kr per year. Properly used, addressing public sector challenges can also be an engine for private sector innovation. At least as important, however, it is through close cooperation with an innovative and knowledge-based business community that we are able to provide forward-looking and user-friendly services in the public sector. There are, as Mr Kjeseth also pointed out, several departments involved in increasing the level of innovation in the public sector. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is involved in competition policy and public procurement, the Ministry of Health and Welfare with welfare technology and innovation in the health sector and the Ministry of Education. All these areas are important, and it is important to see them in context. Not least in the field of health and care, we have already seen how new technologies can also contribute to new forms of organisation and to better solutions for many users. With the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I am particularly concerned with four aspects of promoting innovation in the public sector. The first is that innovation is linked to leadership. We can't go into detail on innovation, but we have to provide good leadership skills. We need to ensure that leaders have room to lead, so we need to show more trust and less detailed governance in the public sector. Leaders shall not be guided by details but shall be measured by results. We need leaders who get more responsibility and clearer responsibilities. Leaders need to use their responsibilities and space of action to initiate and support under innovation processes. We are already reducing the number of targets in letters of allocation and clarifying the responsibilities of managers. This is important because retailers will have little room to drive innovation, while trusted leaders, measured by results, will have stronger incentives to launch innovation processes to find the best solutions. The second thing I'm concerned with is that we need a more holistic approach to public sector innovation and innovation. An enterprise or sector may often develop something new, but once a better solution depends on cross-sectoral cooperation, it becomes more complicated immediately. This way important change processes can stop. These include: this recognition, which is the basis for bringing together the former Ministry of Renewal and Administration and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of a new department. We are now seeing how we can see innovation in the country in the context of innovation in the municipalities. These tasks are related, and it is also important to see how we can better interact with innovation. The third is that the ability to digitise and deploy new technologies is crucial. We are well advanced in technology use in Norway. Therefore, these assumptions are very good for creating new and innovative services. There are several examples of such services being developed and well received. Not least, few people today miss the declaration on paper. We have received an electronic prescription, which makes everyday life easier for patients and helps the caregiver to get an overview of the overall drug use. Digital mailboxes are a good example of cooperation between the public and private sectors in order to produce good solutions. In the next few years, we will start the roll-out of a solution where all citizens will receive their mail in a custom, secure and digital mailbox – unless they have made reservations. In addition, open public data is an important source of innovation in business. Yr. now we already know. The cart has made available large amounts of spatial data because we have prioritised this in the State budget. It provides the basis for new services and more value creation. The public sector is not best placed to provide all services, but services become possible in the interaction between access to public data and an innovative and knowledge-based business. The fourth is a point within which the representative was also involved, namely cooperation with private and non-profit institutions and business. There's a key to success. Innovation rarely takes place only in one enterprise or in one sector. Innovation arises in the interaction between people with different knowledge and experience, between different sectors, between professional environments, between different sectors of industry and between the public and private sectors. That's why the government, and also the Christian People's Party and the Left, are not concerned that we should always choose publicly, or that we should choose private solutions, but that we need diversity. Organisations with different backgrounds will be able to provide different solutions to achieve the good results. We want to exploit the diversity of the voluntary sector; we want to facilitate social entrepreneurship as a solution to challenges that fall easily between chairs. Making good innovation venues is also important. The business community understands this when they make cluster bets. It is important that the public sector also thinks through how we can create arenas to pick up impulses and open up cooperation. Public procurement law is an important tool, as pointed out in the interpellation. We need to ensure that the tax money is as secure as possible, but it should also be used in the long term to develop future solutions in cooperation with business. Public acquisitions must facilitate innovation. Much of the key is to spend longer time ahead of a competition to plan and identify needs with users and the market. At the same time, we know that the extensive procurement legislation can cause contracting entities to be afraid of making mistakes. Some buyers are probably more concerned with complying with the legislation than with obtaining the best acquisitions. The Simplification Committee is now reviewing the peculiar part of the procurement legislation for the purpose of simplification. The deadline for its completion is set at 10 June 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1034	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer, which was within many of the elements I had hoped for. It's reassuring. At the same time, I want to challenge the Council of State somewhat more, especially in the area of the municipal sector and in the area of organisation and instruments. Governments were in the field of digitisation and ICT, and that is important. In Østfold, they have had an exciting project to digitise the Easternfold municipalities, «Djönnopenne Østfold». It's one of the better ICT projects I've seen in the municipal sector in Norway. At the same time, they represent a minority of municipalities in Norway, and this is a bit of the big challenge. There are so many, and no one's taking on the shirt. I hope the Council of State will take part in its modernisation work on how the state will take on that leadership trough and get the municipalities to follow when we have common gains to gain. So to the voluntary sector and social entrepreneurship – which I also perceive the Council of State was clearly on – and how we are adding appropriate instruments to make social entrepreneurs an important contributor to the renewal and modernisation of the municipal sector. We know that many welfare measures have started with social entrepreneurship and how they can better facilitate both economic and value-added activities, which can contribute not only in the public sector but also in the private sector. The third thing I want to challenge further is to distribute the competence and implementation of innovation. Today, the Research Council has a clear role and has relatively good resources. And we can take advantage of the higher education sector even more clearly to distribute, put in place competences and also contribute more clearly to implementing the innovation we have today, and to bring down the pilot project rate somewhat, and that implementation is rising somewhat from all the innovation that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1045	There are important points that the representative, Mr Kjeseth, also draws on in his follow-up. I agree that digitisation and increased use of ICT are also an important tool for getting more innovation in municipalities. The representative said, however, that the government had to take the lead. I think we need to get better cooperation. We also need better cooperation between municipalities. I might say in brackets that even larger and more robust municipalities will be able to take a greater and more comprehensive responsibility in this area. I am convinced that better cooperation between municipalities is absolutely necessary in the field of digitalisation and ICT, but we also want to facilitate cooperation between the state and the municipality. We're now in a job where we're just going to find the keys that Kjeseth is asking for, how we can trigger more innovation in the municipalities, and how we can see the state and municipality in the context. I share the belief that there are not necessarily more pilots we need, not more applications to apply for, but that we support very much of the activity that is already taking place. It leads me to the second important point, namely that social entrepreneurship is also a key to solving important tasks that the public does not have the power to solve alone. We've seen that throughout history, too, that there are individuals who go ahead and see the challenges, and who are also able to create the good solutions. That's why this government is concerned that the welfare challenges cannot be solved by the state alone, nor can they be solved by private individuals, but that we just need the good interaction and cooperation between non-governmental organisations, social entrepreneurs, private companies and the public as an important supplier of premises. It is precisely in diversity that innovation is also lying. Therefore, we need to facilitate both social entrepreneurs and others who will contribute to the development of new services to meet the needs of citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1058	It is an important theme to address in today's interpellation. Innovation and development in the public sector will not least have a major impact on the social sphere mentioned by both the inter-pellant and the state councils in their introductions, health and care sectors, especially in relation to the fact that we are growing older — which is otherwise good, and which testifies to a high standard of living in this country. But this requires that we think new and better about how each one of us can as much as possible live good, seagoing life even in old age as long as we can. By implementing the technological innovations we have already made available today, we will have the opportunity to do so. But if we are to be able to take full advantage of these opportunities, it does not only require innovation in physical and technological matters. It is equally important that cultural and mental attitudes are in place – both in users, families, care providers and politicians. Today's government can lean on a considerable amount of work that the red-green government has done in this field. The innovative Hagen report Innovation in Care, initiated by the Red-Green Government, came in 2011 and formed the basis for the big business message Tomorrow's care, which Stortinget adopted in spring. The notification is based on the assumption that municipalities will continue to be responsible for municipal health and care services in the future, but where the State must be an important contributor to innovation, development and competence work locally and regionally. The Storting Communication draws up important premises for active cooperation between municipalities and voluntary sector and with family, close networks and civil society in general. The innovation work to find good solutions must, among other things: focus on the design and testing of new models for future institutional and housing solutions. Indeed, a lot of good practical innovation is already taking place in this sector. In several municipalities, in different parts of the country, welfare technology is now being tested in daily care. At higher education institutions and universities, technology subjects are linked to professional training in the welfare professions, for example: at the Bergen and Gjøvik colleges. In my home country, Troms, the National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine is doing an important job of linking all municipalities to the digital systems of the university hospital. The Norwegian people are used to communicating and retrieving information over the network. The ICT communication for the healthcare sector adopted by the Stortinge will provide us as citizens with new opportunities for getting good health information, transparency in their own journals and the possibility to engage in dialogue with different parts of the care sector. And not least, in a country like ours, there will be a lot to get into use, for example. telemedicine solutions in collaboration between treatment providers and in interaction between treatment and patients, users. Cooperation is a key word to enable us to set new ambitious objectives for the health and welfare field. We need to seek out the innovation potential that exists both in industry, in research environments and in other innovative environments. The Labour Party believes that the public should be responsible for the operation of care services to the population, with ideal actors, the voluntary sector and others as good and important partners. It is only a public care model that can ensure that all the resources we deploy benefit patients and users, that the service provision is predictable and that the resources are distributed fairly. We believe that the experience of extensive commercialisation of care shows that this does not provide better services, that it does not promote innovation, and that services cannot be carried out cheaper without compromising pay and pension conditions for employees. I noticed that former State Council of the Right, Victor Norman, was recently out in the media and meant the exact same thing. One of the most important things we can do to contribute to innovation in the health and care sector is to acknowledge the idea that people have spiritual and cultural needs throughout their lives regardless of their situation, that we are social beings who are looking for meaningful communities, and that good experiences, joys and attitudes to life are qualities that we need to be much more active than today in the new care solutions. We can see that today's care has not been successful enough to counteract loneliness and isolation. Therefore, we need not only new ideas about physical, technological and economic tools, but also more comprehensive ideas about what it means to be human in the many phases of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1081	The interpellant addresses very many interesting aspects of the development of the public sector. I think perhaps the biggest challenge we have in the future if we are to address the needs is a distribution challenge – that we do not accept that the public sector and the welfare share of our total economy are still to be reduced for the benefit of private consumption, which also partly harms the climate and the environment. So that's probably the biggest challenge we've ever had. It's possible to solve many of these problems if one really prioritizes them. Many of the tasks of the public sector are technical where technology and development can make great progress. But much of what we're talking about right now is relationships, for example. education and care. Much of this is about relationships, and it's about people actually meeting people and filling the human needs, as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen spoke about. I could give you an example. In the hospital, I don't think there was anyone who 30 years ago could imagine how technological developments could go so fast that we can do today at a doctor's office what we had to do in the Rikshospitalet to do. There's been a huge development, but that doesn't mean it's going to be cheaper. We don't have to always think that what we do is going to be cheaper because it's going to be technologically modern. Because it triggers new needs. You cure people who before died of disease, they live longer, new needs arise. We're dealing with new disorders, and that means that the priority question is there all the time, no matter how we turn around and turn around. Then I am glad that the Council of State said that innovation in the public sector should not be about people necessarily having to run faster. But I have a feeling that that's what we're talking about almost every time we talk about competitive outsourcing and tenders. Because then it's the price, and then it's those who do the job, who are going to pay and retire if it's going to pay off. I still have the good thing to get someone to explain to me why it's best to spend tax money on dividends in private companies, which sometimes also locate themselves in tax havens and are not involved and contribute to the split layer that we're talking about now, and which we all want to be both modern, efficient and to the help of all the people. When the Council of State says that the number of targets should be reduced, it is therefore interesting to discuss which targets should be set and which targets should be eliminated, for example: in the public employers' policy. For there are many objectives on the part of the State, including: on equal pay, more full-time and less part-time. It is also about temporary employment, and about how much you want to tender for the business. There are many aspects of public employers' policy, and I only use it as an example as the Council of State mentioned this by running faster. I don't think we should go through many of these so-called modernisation projects or conversion projects until we see that it has just been what it has been about, and that these conversion projects have unfortunately also had a high human cost that we find on Nav. Because there's something about taking too many changes, especially if they don't mean you should be able to do your job better. I don't meet anyone working in the public sector who doesn't want to do their job well, but they're striving to have enough people with them at work and enough resources to do that job well. Nav is a good example of how this is. So fast to this with the public sector and procurement: Yes, it is important that the purchases we make also follow the important objectives we have, for example: on universal design, which can be an important driver of technology. Then we must not miss it. ICT is also important, but there are many in the older population who lack digital skills, and we must also assist them with it. Finally, social entrepreneurship: the major social entrepreneurs in Norway have been in the voluntary sector. They haven't gone after profit. I now record a certain willingness to redefine social entrepreneurship into something that is really innovation. Innovation is good, but social entrepreneurship has triple bottom line, and we must not forget that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1098	Thanks to the interpellant that gives us the opportunity to discuss a very important topic. Indeed, the public sector is for the inhabitants. It should give us all good services, freedom of choice and participation. A strong and good public sector is a prerequisite for cohesion and equal opportunities for all. In the large picture, Norwegian administration is good. International comparisons, drawn up by, inter alia: The World Bank, shows that Norwegian administration is well-functioning and ranked among the best in the world. For the efficiency dimension, only eight countries score better than Norway. In terms of participation and transparency, Norway is cutting best. It is a very good starting point, but as a societally critical party, the Workers' Party should always be concerned with renewing and converting public activities. Governments talked about the importance of trust in leaders. I very much agree with that, but I want to stress that all employees are an invaluable resource in terms of innovation as well. Competence is essential, and we have to go even further to realize the vision of lifelong learning. Creativity and innovation that are triggered by employees when they participate in the design of their own working day are one of our main competitive advantages. In these PISA times, it is worth remembering that Norwegian students are very good at cooperation and creativity. These are characteristics that both industry and the public sector demand. An active trade union movement that has gained influence and taken responsibility has played a crucial role in the creation of value in Norway. Professionals who are safe at work and who are involved in the development of the enterprise are more creative, flexible and committed. Our wealth and well-being depend on us using resources as efficiently as possible. Therefore, a number of efficiency and renewal measures were launched by the red-green government. In addition to the trust of employees and management, the proper use of ICT is one of the things that will generate huge gains for Norway in the future. The previous government presented the digitisation programme with offensive and clear objectives. Many good measures have already been taken, as pointed out by the Council of State, such as the digital mailbox and the digitisation of the Loan Fund, and the red-green government has laid the foundation for digital communication with the administration as a general rule. It's given results. However, there is also a need for more government governance and coordination of ICT in the public sector and more cooperation across administrative areas and levels. Government purchases for several hundred billion dollars a year. These resources must be used efficiently and for the benefit of citizens and businesses, so that, as the Council of State said, they become an engine for innovation. The red-green government spent a lot of time facilitating simplifications. Proposals were made at hearings, a public body was set up to look at simplifications in the public procurement legislation, and there has been a lot of time to give competence to public sector staff to work on procurement procedures. So, in summary, the previous government has taken many good initiatives and implemented many good actions that it is important for the new government to follow up. We have great expectations that the ambitions of the blue-blue government will become concrete action quickly. We are impatient and expect concrete results. Finally, I would like to say that a variety of methods, innovation and innovation could contribute to the further development of public service provision. Many non-profit actors have a long experience, a high level of competence and a high level of commitment and can both contribute to new solutions and be drivers of development in the public service. The red-green government therefore concluded an important cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector which obliges the State, local authorities and public authorities to take into account the way in which the non-profit institutions operate their services. I want to make a final call that it is essential that the new government extend this agreement – re-enter it and follow it up, so that we do not miss out on important competences and commitment from the voluntary, non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1117	I also thank you for the posts that have been here. To Karin Andersen, I would like to say that the distribution challenge is very important – yes! Then we have to remember that innovation is a resource struggle, and it's not sure that we're going to do things cheaper, but it can be a fight to do something better. Then we can replace some effort with another. I will then lead us on to e.g. sick leave, which in the public sector costs us billions of dollars, and have we innovated there? It is one of the important challenges we have to take with us to the debate, that in the welfare sector it is an innovation gain to pick up which we have obviously not yet seen triggered. In terms of volunteering, on which the representative Håheim was involved, I have an ambition on behalf of the Left that we should not only have an agreement, but that we should also finance the voluntary sector a little more – for example. to contribute to the important innovation work that we are talking about here. Then I was in my post about funding, assignment and organization. Denmark has been through structural reform. One of the grips they did was to liquidate the possibility of having intercommunal companies. It is a debate I think we should take on board, both in the interests of democracy and in the interests of funding. Can we trigger innovation by having another way of organizing ourselves? I'm not saying that AS is the right grip, but I think it's a very necessary debate to go into, if intercommunal companies in today's form do the task that we want them to do. Then the human resource is what we've all been into as absolutely essential -- to facilitate those who work in the public sector. Because we're not so rigged that if we work in the private sector, we run innovation and are at risk, and if we work in the public sector, we're not. There has to be something here to trigger at extracting this. I think there's something to put together and organize. My impression is that many in the public sector want to do innovation work, and see both the potential and the benefits, but face barriers or do not see the opportunities, or that it is too demanding to cross the doorstep and grasp it. Here, I believe that through fairly simple means, we can trigger a large resource and considerable employment among public employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1130	Once again, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Kjeseth, for putting an important theme and a good debate on the agenda. We are only at the beginning of this important discussion on how through innovation we can create better and more individualised services. The challenges ahead can not only be solved with more money, but we also need to think about how we can organise ourselves and how we can promote innovation in the public sector. A few years ago, I visited a private care specialist in Oslo. It is possible that it is the Workers' Party and the SV will characterise as a commercial operator. She, who led this, worked for 20 years in a municipal hospital and was very happy with that job – she was severely torn up at the municipal hospital. But afterwards, there was a strong desire to do things in a slightly different way than what was possible within the municipal hospital. That's why she started on her own -- not to make a lot of money, but to live a dream of creating a better elderly care for others. Such people should get a slap on their shoulders and not a moral index finger. We need people who want to create a better everyday life for others, and if they do it by starting a separate company, it has to be up to them. I would like to ask the representative Karin Andersen to look a little bit more at free user choice, to get rid of private and volunteers is not just about outsourcing, it's also about free user choice, where the individual chooses between public and private services, and in that way can get more custom-made solutions. I think that's the way we have to go, that's to facilitate diversity. It does not call into question public liability, both for the financing of services and for quality assurance of services. The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen started his post by saying that we have to think new. I agree, but we also need to create new ones and we need to act new ones if we are to be able to solve the major challenges that we know we need to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1142	The debate on substance is closed. 12 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1156	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e1162	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e2471	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e2479	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-16.ana.ud2277e2491	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
