ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e26	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e29	I have first been delighted on behalf of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself to present a proposal for a representative on VAT compensation for individuals in the construction of nursing homes for their own children. Then I am also delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself on a more comprehensive, efficient and user-friendly hub.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e36	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e39	On behalf of the representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on the right to interpret and accompany deaf blind people in leisure activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e44	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e47	On behalf of the representatives Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Götskesen, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing immediate measures to implement the necessary racial protection on the E16 between Bergen and Voss.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e52	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e55	On behalf of the representatives of Anders Anundsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Per Arne Olsen and myself, I propose to strengthen patient rights for vulnerable patient groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e61	The representative Siri A. Meling will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e64	On behalf of Henning Skumsvoll, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Borghild Tenden and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to give the communities concerned a greater share of the value creation from wind power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e69	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e72	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I would like to promote a proposal by a representative on a strengthened provision of activity and public health for people with mental developmental disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e89	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Grete Faremo, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e96	My question goes to the Minister of Justice – if anyone wondered! We have a situation where the capacity in Norwegian prisons is detonated. In the wake of that, we get alarming messages from various prisons. There's a warning about dangerous prisons. Some claim that it's being gambled with security. The situation is that prisons are also being filled with more and more foreign criminals. Prison cows are not unknown to us. After all, the Great Mountain tried in its time to remove the prison queues by making open atonement and penalty rebates. Today’s Minister of Justice also reduces queues, or tries to reduce queues, through electronic accomplices and open accomplices. Still, we have prison cows. You have maximum capacity utilisation. A letter has been sent to the Minister of Justice from 72 employees in Bodø prison, and I quote from this letter: ‘The lack of money prevents us from doing this work in prison. We're in front of drastic downsizing. We're afraid of life and health for cops and inmates. If anything goes wrong, we hold the Director of KSF Marianne Vollan and Minister of Justice Grete Faremo personally responsible." In view of the answer given by the Minister of Justice to the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen on 22 April of this year, where the Minister of Justice answers that assurances have been received that the situation at Bodø prison and other prisons is sound for both employees and prisoners, my question to the Council of State is: Who has a true sense of reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e112	The reality is that, unfortunately, there has been an over-exploitation of funds in the North Region and that in that situation it is imperative that the KSF follow up on the region with a view to regaining control of the economy. In the current situation, it is absolutely necessary that all prisons in the region be sound, both for prisoners and for employees. Security must be safeguarded, and of course we are in a situation where no one is to be cancelled either. But it's a dilemma when you don't control resource use, to act in such a way that you reward an additional consumption with new, fresh resources. It is true that the government has put a lot of effort into reducing the pay queues, and fortunately we have done well. It is also true that we have taken a number of measures to increase capacity and have succeeded in doing so. In Northern Ireland, 16 new sites with electronic control will be used in the current year, so that there will also be an extension of capacity there, which is important in terms of the situation we now have, not least in Bodø. I can assure the representative Sandberg that we are following this situation closely. It is important for us to take care of the employees, not least the safety of the employees, in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e123	I am a little surprised when the Minister of Justice points out that the queue has been reduced. Yes, it is easy to reduce the queue when you release the criminals and give them a penalty discount, because then there will be free capacity to fill up with new ones. It is also worrying that the Minister of Justice points to increased capacity in the northern region because of the opening up of electronic housing. There is not an increase in capacity in prison institutions; there is only an increase in capacity by increasing the number of criminals out on open ground. The situation in prison is becoming serious. It is pointed out that protective vests and shields need to be used much more widely in everyday life. There are more weapons in prisons than there are at home. The situation is serious. So my last question to the minister is, will the minister now guarantee that there will be no unfortunate incidents due to depopulation in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e132	We have a situation where we have significantly increased capacity, and we have a situation where the number of people trained in criminal matters is also significantly higher than in the past. Criminal services do a very good job every day in the different institutions. One of the measures now being implemented in the North Region in the context of a difficult situation is a concrete risk assessment of tour users. It is imperative for us to ensure safety at the workplace. Electronic control increases capacity. It is a reconciliation option that works well for the group that can implement such a reconciliation. The figures also show few fractures and lower relapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e137	Åse Michaelsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e140	It is important to see the whole here, because we are aware that the number of criminals released from custody is increasing, the number of days spent on smooth cells is increasing, the number of unskilled in prisons is increasing, the number of criminals in rescue queues is increasing, the number of foreign criminals in prison is increasing, the number of criminals released prematurely is increasing, the violence and threats in prisons are increasing, the number of illegal asylum seekers is increasing. Isn't there something sinking? Well, the number of police per thousand is falling, the chance of being taken is falling, the security of prisons is falling. I could actually have even further on this list. There have been eight years of majority government. I just have a simple question: who hasn't done their job?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e147	There is a broad consensus in Norway on the instruments of criminal justice, and we discussed yesterday’s interview on effective penalties — in the wake of the announcement made to the Stortinget in 2008. There's a number of things that work. In fact, crime is sinking in a number of areas. Developments in the first quarter of this year are remarkable in several areas, looking up to the first quarter of last year. The relapse is also falling. The use of electronic control shows that here we have a penalty method that further reduces relapses and also leads to fewer crimes during acquittal. I'm going to be the last one to say, though, that there are not a number of challenges in the field of criminal care that we're going to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e152	Anders B. Werp – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e155	There is no doubt that the capacity of criminal services is under a strong pressure, as the representative Sandberg pointed out. The pressure also increases by many prisons experiencing uncertainty. The last time I looked at it, it was probably 29 of the country's prisons that were on a list of the criminal services with the threat of decommissioning. In such a situation, it is important that the Storting should be presented with a capacity plan that reveals the ambitions of the government and invites a political debate and effort to take long-term action to increase capacity, reduce uncertainty and, at the same time, improve the quality of both housing and rehabilitation. The right has called for such a capacity plan for Stortinget to achieve a broad political effort and strong political ownership of the outcome. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e165	I fully agree with Mr Werp that the capacity of criminal services is under strong pressure. I would therefore like to bring forward the job done in criminal care with both reducing cows and ensuring that we have a high level of capacity utilisation. We have a pressure on not least the car parks, and we are therefore working on concrete projects that are in the quality assurance process, among other things. in the Agder counties, Vestfold, Buskerud and Telemark. I think it's necessary to get concrete projects up. At the same time, we see that the capacity plan we now have for treatment in the department provides us with valuable information about both the status of today and how we are going to work targeted to ensure new capacity. [[President clubs]] It will be the ordinary budgetary processes that...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e170	We're going to have to get back to that. Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e175	I think I'm going to help the Council of State get back to it. I have to say that I am a little stunned when the Council of State began to respond. She said it was a regrettable fact that there had been an over-consumption in the police in the north. Then I kind of got the picture that the target management is such that they have imprisoned too many people in the north lately in relation to the target figures. Or what's in that council that said? She can answer that. In addition, I have just heard a talk from the police chief in Oslo. From there, custody services must now be transported to other parts of the country and spent a lot of resources on it — or you have to release it. My specific question is – for Oslo’s part, which was not mentioned in the Council’s response: Do you have any short-term and/or long-term plans to ensure sufficient capacity for custody detention in the Oslo area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e184	I referred to an excess of money. When too much money is spent, and more than you have, you have to make changes that make it possible to get the economy under control. However, the challenges are many, and ensuring – as I said – both new capacity and a variety of alternatives, so that we also make it possible to get back to a criminalised existence in the best possible way, is important. When we include: investigating new capacity in specific parts of the country, there is also a recognition that transport is a significant resource consumer in the criminal justice system and in the police. With adequate capacity it will also be possible to reduce this consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e191	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e194	I have a question for the Minister of Development. Right-wing development policy has two overall objectives: permanent out of poverty and respect for human rights and democracy. Our whole development policy will build on these two objectives. In 2011, Norway gave 40 US think tanks a total of 250 million. kr. An internal report to which the Evening Post refers today states: ‘The increase in contributions gives Norway a significant positive position.’ One of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' many communication advisers goes on to say: ‘The projects also create important meeting places with U.S. and other countries’ decision-makers.’ It is obvious that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is using the aid budget to buy political influence in the United States. Large parts of the system of support for American thought tanks are hidden. Money is drawn from a variety of budget lines to make transparency and control difficult. The right has so far not found this comprehensive scheme in any document for Stortinget. Does the Council of State think that spending a quarter of a billion Norwegian aid crowns annually on American thought tanks helps people to work long-term out of poverty or significantly increase respect for human rights or democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e213	Now I'm a little bit surprised here. Does the Right believe that there is too much research in development policy, and that we should spend less money on research...?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e218	The President will state that in the oral Question Time of the Storting, it is the Council of State that answers questions from the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e221	Of course! But I'm trying to understand what the criticism is. What I'm asking is whether that's how critical questions are asked for us to spend $250 million. for research into development policy. That's the first thing I wonder about. One of the things we saw when we went through this, and that actually surprised me -- it was we who ordered that report to see the total research we're doing -- was that we had actually given so much to American research. But there I can assure the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that about 128 of the 250 million go to projects or research in developing countries. Some of the organisations that Skovholt Gitmark describes as thinking thoughts are research institutions, but some of them are NGOs and other organisations that also carry out concrete projects in developing countries. The second thing I thought I would say – and it is important for me to stress – is that that report is now public from today. I think that's important, because in our follow-up to the report, which we ourselves ordered, we did several different things. One was to say that here we need a greater overall organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' research work. That's why we hired our own director, a trade director, on the research side, because some of the things that come out of the report are that there's too little coordination from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on how the research is done, and there's too little systematic follow-up of the results that are coming. That's why we're going to follow it up both through a more systematic way of organizing this, and through a broader transparency in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e230	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e233	I understand that the criticism is difficult. However, let me congratulate the Council of State on publishing the report today. I think that was a good timing both in relation to the question of the evening post and the right engagement in the matter. This has taken a long time to dig out, precisely because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done its utmost to keep this hidden for a long time. The internal report to which the Evening Post refers is clear that Norway is also using this mechanism to buy political influence in the United States. It is one of the clearest answers that comes out of the report. I want to go further and ask if the Council of State will help to make this system even better known, besides just publishing this, because I understand that it is politically more edible to give money in hiding to American think tanks and NGOs than it is with close contact with American decision-makers and politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e243	Just to make one thing clear: there's not one system aimed at this. One of the things that emerges from the report is that the different sections, the different departments on the development side of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are asking for research in their fields. There's no doubt that one of the reasons we're doing that is that we're going to focus more on things we're busy about. We can, for example: take the area of forest cooperation – what we do in climate and forest projects. Several of the research projects and work on the programmes we are in are acting, for example: to find out how we can manage to create markets that prevent us from being cut down on rainforests in order to replace them with palm oil production. There are research projects on that kind of thing. And there's research into ensuring sustainable management of landscapes in Brazil, as of course. help us get concrete projects that prevent deforestation. All these are concrete research projects that are being done. But it is clear that our intention is to publish this and make it more accessible to big business representatives and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e252	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e255	It is, of course, striking that the day the criticism comes, the day the media write about the secret report, it also becomes public. The report starts in 2011 — it has been in existence for two years — but there has been no desire on the part of the Ministry to make it public. So we're talking about a quarter of a billion dollars of the aid budget. If there has been a long-standing desire by the Minister of Development for transparency about this mechanism and this money, why is it not possible to find out what the money is in the budget papers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e262	It's because we don't have one budget line called research in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget, but we're asking for research on a broad front. I expect that I have the support of the representative Eriksen Soreide that it is important that we research and study some of the projects we have – i.e. have follow-up research – to ensure that part of the things we do actually work. The second part of this is that we're doing research in areas where we see that there's too little research. For example, this year we are increasing research appropriations in the health field by 65 million. kr, because we see that there is too little research on some types of drugs that are being asked for in poor countries. But then I just want to answer one thing for there to be no misunderstanding about it: the reason why this report is being published today is that the criticism is coming. It is because it is requested why this report is not public. It should have been public a long time ago. I see it as a mistake on our part that it is not public. I was familiar with the content already during the last year. I now want to make sure that the follow-up is done in a good way in line with what I say.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e269	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e272	There may be new paces from the Red-Green Government that Norway is now also using Norwegian u-help money in the United States, whether it's research and thinking thoughts, and the Council of State has, to a large extent, expressed a strong commitment to the importance of this activity. It is at least suitable for getting the total use of u-help money up to 1 pst. of gross domestic product – which I have understood is the most important target in terms of unhelp for this government. But then I want to ask: why can't you have your own budget chapter on subsidies for American research and thinking, to make the money visible, instead of hiding it in the aid budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e279	No, first of all, I want to say that it's because it makes no sense to make your own pot called a grant for American research, because this is research in a number of areas that are demanded based on the need we have for research. Sometimes there'll be American think tanks, institutes and institutions, sometimes there'll be completely different places. There is no doubt that we want to promote cooperation between institutions in Norway, the United States and elsewhere, and in educational institutions and universities in the south. Then I'll say one more thing. As a follow-up to this report, and because we have now addressed some of the criticisms raised in the report – which we so ordered ourselves – we are going to put forward a strategy before the summer, a strategy that is just about how we are going to use research in development cooperation, because we believe it is important to have research-based and knowledge-based development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e286	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e289	I think there are many interesting aspects to this matter. It is clear that, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we have repeatedly also been involved in the use of aid and the projects to which the aid should go, precisely to try to target the poorest, so that the aid budget does not become an area where one can commit projects that one should take over other types of budget. But the most interesting thing — and the Council of State is unable to respond to it — is why one did not choose to publish it in the budgets. An amount of one billion, 250 million. kr – is a huge amount. That one then chooses to publish the report on the same day as there is a critical look in the paper, is of course interesting. So my simple question is just, what will the Council of State do in the future to make this at least public in the future? And why hasn't it been public for now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e296	After all, we started that study, that work, to get an overview of the overall research, because research also includes support for thought, support for educational institutions and institutions working with knowledge-building and knowledge-gathering. It shall be treated in the same way as all the other aid items and aid projects. But I think that we all have an interest in making sure that what is done is knowledge-based, that we have good investigations in advance, before anything is done, for example. new crime in the forest area. My intention is that this should be more public, that we should have more publicity about this in the future. That is why I repeat: I perceive it as a mistake on our part that the report was not published. As soon as we were made aware that it was a wish for it to be published, so we that this should have been published, and that is why we published it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e303	We move on to the next main question – from the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e307	We were very upset when we saw Focus yesterday. It was probably a reminder of how terrible some au pairs can have it when they are in Norway. My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Most of the au pairs in Norway come from the Philippines. In Focus yesterday, we met brave Christy in 27 years, who is also from the Philippines. She dared to stand up, and she dared to report, because she felt that she was being subjected to forced labour. After two months she escaped, and she went to the police. The amazing thing in this story is that she got a new family. Now the matter is under investigation, and she has a family where she is well. But Christy is unfortunately just one of many examples that we know about where au pairs are being exploited in the most serious way. Such a Christian People's Party sees it, there is an absolute need for legislative changes and better control, for example. concerns one of the questions concerning the quarantine of the host families where one has seen that illegalities have been committed. Something else is that there have been difficulties in getting reports, that the police do not give priority to matters, or that the police themselves do not know whether the cases fall under the law of the day – and there is a lack of control. My question is, is the Council of State satisfied with today's legislation and its handling?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e316	The representative Roppstad addresses a very important question. The aupair system as a means of cultural exchange has existed for a long period. I still think we are many who see that the system has gradually evolved in a way that reveals clear weaknesses. There is some background to the recent government's efforts to ensure better information, better control, better follow-up and more options for those participating in the scheme. I am not satisfied with today's arrangement. There is some background for us to come up with our own new quarantine rules in a short time to ensure further against abuse. It is quarantined for misuse of the system and, of course, long quarantine for those who have to be convicted – in the most serious cases where there is a conviction. I have to admit that to me this is a system that is now hanging in a thin thread. I think it is absolutely necessary that we follow developments closely. I link expectations to the information system that is now established in cooperation with Norwegian People's Aid and the Trade Union, and that came into place at the turn of the year. We cannot continue a system that has provided such an opportunity for exploitation as any of these examples that have emerged recently carry a bid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e323	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e326	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the government promises so much, that the Council of State is concerned about the matter and will make new proposals, because it is absolutely essential that it be settled in this – and that quickly. Therefore, it is also interesting to hear that the Council of State thinks so far that she says the scheme is hanging in a thin thread. I also share the opinion of the Council of State that at its best this is an excellent cultural exchange, it is good experience and memory for life, but at its worst what I would call slavery. The interesting thing is that it is said that slavery was abolished in Europe a few hundred years ago, but modern slavery, human trafficking and trafficking, lives on. As I see it, parts of the cases and the forced labour being uncovered fall under the penal code – under human trafficking. My question is whether the Council of State shares that assessment, that part of the cases is actually part of modern slavery?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e333	The cases of exploitation of a scheme that could otherwise have been good are serious. We see here that we're dealing with parties that are so weak that it also gives room for exploitation, and we have to follow that closely. I expect the police to follow up on these kinds of things with the seriousness of that condition. If there is human exploitation, and if there is trafficking in human beings, it should be broken down – it cannot be excused in any way from the point of view of the aupair system. We will follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e338	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e341	I myself was present at the Parktheatre yesterday during the presentation of the documentary, and I met there many of the au pairs and also others from the Philippine environment. It was a strong experience, it was a sad experience, it was an outrageous experience, and I sat there and was almost completely disappointed about the situation. This is human exploitation. Of course, as the representative Ropstad was in the house, it is very good, and many are doing well, but several told them that they were told by the host family that if they said so, they were sent home immediately, because they could not be in Norway without work. It is good that the information system is in place, but there is also an immediate need for a place where they can safely turn and be believed, be taken care of and not be sent home because they have no work. They must be helped further. They also need an aid lawyer to the extent that it becomes a matter of it. Will the Council of State immediately take care of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e350	The information system I referred to, which came into place at New Year's, I think can improve both the information and the attention to the difficult conditions. Of course, we also expect the Foreign Affairs Directorate to strengthen and strengthen its information work, as explained. Several changes have also been made to the current system since last year. I think we're going to start a new evaluation of the scheme in a couple of to three years to see if the changes work as they please. This is, as I said, a system that has given room for abuse, which we must work actively to prevent, and we do not get it with the changes that have been made, I say – for my part – that the system seems to hang in a thin thread.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e355	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e358	It is good that these stories come out. At the same time, I think we should be reasonably careful from Stortinget's pulpit to hang out thousands of Norwegian families to engage in abuse of exchange students – as this is in a way. Many of us have participated in such schemes in other countries – I have done so – and have had good experience with it. I personally know a lot of these families, and I think we're going to be very careful to hang them out. At the same time, a number of facts have emerged here. Legal advice for women has made a wonderful report on this scheme, and honor them for it. Will the Council of State now help to obtain facts about this scheme and to focus more on prosecutions against those who abuse the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e367	There is a research report on the basis of which the changes are now being implemented. In-depth research has been carried out on the scheme. As I said, I announce a new evaluation in a few years. I'm not looking to hang out families, as the representative referred to, but I'm looking to draw attention to the weaknesses of the system that the report has revealed, and the measures that are now being taken to prevent abuse. I think we are largely able to pay for our babysitting or the need for household care through other, ordinary channels. This cultural exchange mechanism was important in its time, but if it has gradually evolved into a system that provides room for abuse, we need to consider the whole scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e373	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e376	My question goes to the Minister for Aid. Norway uses about every year. 30 B.C.E. kr for assistance and development aid. In recent times, claims have been made that aid money has been used — to put it bluntly — to reward terrorist prisoners who are in prison. It is important to reject such claims, but at the same time it is absolutely necessary to clarify that not a single Norwegian krone from Norwegian u-help budgets goes to such remuneration. Furthermore, it is important to assess whether Norwegian money, for example: to the Palestinian authorities, they are more able to release funds from other sources and to use them for such remuneration. Can the Council of States guarantee that Norwegian aid does not, either directly or indirectly, be used to pay salaries or other financial subsidies to terrorist prisoners?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e385	History has shown me that you should be careful to guarantee anything. But when the representative raises questions about Palestine, I would say that it is Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide who has the constitutional responsibility for it. I know that a job has been done from there to get clarity in all the circumstances around it, but I can't answer for that. In general, I would like to say that we are doing what we can to ensure an overview of what money is used for, and that we follow that money is used for what they are going to use for. We have evaluations and jobs to create transparency. An innovation from our government, and for which my predecessor did a lot, was to create transparency on issues related to, for example. corruption. After I took over, for the first time, an attachment was submitted to the government budget, which the representative knows for sure, where we go through the experience of this type of business to create more transparency. In the course of the year I will also present several issues and make an effort to create more transparency about assistance, what assistance money is planned to be used for, and what they are going to be used for, so that it is more likely for large-scale representatives to verify that the money has gone to what they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e392	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e395	I thank you for your answer. I am familiar with the division of responsibilities that exists between the two Councils of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the Minister of Aid therefore has responsibility for the 30 billion. kr in the budget in force for the current year. What is at the heart of my question is the extent to which the Minister for Aid has obtained an overview of whether there are cases where recipients of aid can thus release other financial sources, so that Norway indirectly participates in financing activities that we do not want to participate in?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e402	It is a very clear distribution of responsibility, also for the follow-up of the money that Stortinget decides in its budgets, but from my side I would say that, yes, all the money we pay goes to the projects they are going to go to. The representative Myhre raises an interesting question of – I would say – almost philosophical character. It is clear that when we are in and we support some specific projects, there is always a possibility that governments can choose to prioritise other things in their budgets. Therefore, our policy has increasingly been to help governments increase their income through investment in some areas, by building good financial institutions and by increasing the tax revenue of countries to ensure that our money does not replace other money and is therefore re-prioritized in budgets, but instead ensures that countries themselves increase their income.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e407	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e410	There's a clear common denominator between the question that I raised in 250 million. kr to American think tanks and research institutions, and this: Wages and salaries to Palestinians convicted in the Israeli judiciary for ‘security offers’. The common denominator is openness, in this case a fundamental lack of transparency from the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not wanted to share the information until now in the case of the 250 million, and they have been very restrained with information related to the salary of Palestinian prisoners convicted for ‘security offers’. What does the Council of State want to do now to make this information of the Storting, which the Storting needs, appear continuously in the light? Will the Council of State change its strategy and therefore the strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to mention this type of information, not only in budgetary documents, but in other documents for the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e417	No, I would say that we will continue our strategy for increased transparency, as we have done, for example. in corruption cases, where our government has done a huge job to get more cases in the light and to make all the information available to both the Storting and the Press. We will also do what we can to broaden the transparency of NORAD reporting – these are figures that are available to everyone through NORADS reports, which we are increasingly making available to the public – but also for all kinds of reports that are being evaluated by our own assistance. In the autumn, we will present an annex to the State budget on the impact of Norwegian aid, where we try to ensure more transparency about how the aid is used. We will also work to increase transparency about the planned use of the assistance. If you want ‘accountability’ or the ability to place people in charge — not only those we give the money to, but also a country’s population and its authorities — we believe that you need to be open about the use of aid money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e422	Tom Staahle - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e425	The Council of State said in its first response to the representative Myhre that it was important that all the aid money went to what they were going to do. But over the years, we have seen many examples of aid going for purposes other than what was intended. The internationally recognized aid researcher Paul Collier suggests, among other things: at least 40 pst. African military expenditure is financed by subsidies. We have seen examples from Uganda, a country that has received several billion dollars in aid for several years. from Norway, that the President has used these funds, including: for the purchase of an exclusive private aircraft. Does the Minister for Assistance feel uncomfortable about how aid, paid by Norwegian tax money, directly or indirectly, finances arms purchase, supports terrorists – such as in Palestine – for the purchase of expensive private aircraft and Mercedes, or goes to the financing of think tanks in the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e433	I don't feel any discomfort when we spend money on providing good research on assistance, and I don't think the representative should do that either. I think it is extremely important to make sure that aid money goes to what they are going to do. This is why we have given greater attention to combating corruption in aid, and we have set up our own central control unit – a group of aid sellers – that goes after misuse of aid money. We want more transparency about this, and we also make sure to include anti-corruption rules and refund rules in contracts we enter into, precisely because we have learned from the mistakes of previous governments, and because we believe it is important to ensure more transparency about this. So it will always be that one of the things I'm very concerned about is working because countries don't work out aid dependency. The best way to do this is to ensure that more money is used to create fair distribution and generate own incomes for countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e440	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e443	Assistance shall contribute to development and assistance shall contribute to peace. Therefore, funds for Palestinian self-government authorities must also be made available to create development and peace. In these cases, we have been told that it is actually such that Palestinian terrorists who are imprisoned in Israeli prison are paid on the basis of how serious incidents or terrorist attacks they have been involved in. In one case you get $8,000 a month, in another case you get $17,000 a month. There's a clear context: the more serious it is, the more pay you get. It almost seems like there is an incentive scheme to commit terrorism, which at least does not help to create peace. According to the ILO, the average salary for a Palestinian in 2011 was NOK 3 500. How does the Minister for Development feel that Norwegian aid money is going to pay a terrorist $17,000 a month?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e450	It is Councillor Espen Barth Eide who is responsible for following up everything that goes of aid money to the Palestinians, so I will leave him to answer that question. I feel that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e455	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e458	My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security. On 31 March there were 15,763 people in Norwegian asylum reception, but only 16 pst. of which, approx. 2000 people, asylum seekers waiting for their asylum application to be settled in an ordinary way. 5,116 of those sitting there are people who have finally received a rejection of their application and who should have returned to their home country. At UDI's Spring Conference, which was held a few days ago, the State Council told Faremo that we can't have it that way. The Council of State said that the aim of 2014 is to increase the number of returns by 300. This is small when there are more than 5,000 people in overtime in Norwegian asylum centres. They should have returned voluntarily, but as long as the authorities do not act and have the capacity to implement it, there is little going on. The national meeting of the Workers' Party adopted its programme, which reads: ‘The working party will pursue an active return policy which will both ensure that more people can return voluntarily and allow for forced return. This is important in order to maintain the legitimacy of the asylum institution.» With more than 5000 final rejections in Norwegian reception: What does the government intend to do to prevent the asylum institution from losing legitimacy during this process, and how many are the governments planning to return before this period is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e474	The number of returnees has shown an increase in recent years, but it is true that the representative points out that there have, however, been further increases in reception because the number of applicants who have been refused and still do not return to their country of origin has increased. We have seen a joyful increase in voluntary returns, and we have also invested more in forced returns. The fact that we have had a larger increase in voluntary returns for that reason is to a great extent enjoyable to be able to register. It is a challenge that we both have several refusals in reception and also several in reception waiting for residence in Norwegian municipalities. So, when we conduct a comprehensive refugee and asylum policy, we need to pay attention to both the housing challenge and the challenge it is facing in return. We expect those who have been denied residence in Norway to return voluntarily, and have therefore also established increasingly strong support programmes for so-called assisted voluntary return. Before the ageing period is over, we will also come back to Stortinget with proposals for changes to the possibilities of so-called conversion requests. We have to take into account our international obligations, but we are looking at how we can facilitate and streamline the treatment of these requests, which are made after rejection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e483	I did not get an answer to my question as to how many this government has intended to return before this ageing period is over, but the Council of State can have a new chance. There may be many reasons why asylum seekers with a final refusal do not return to their country of origin. The law is clear, but the follow-up of the government and the authorities is more unclear. Director of UDI, Frode Forfang, said yesterday to VG Net: ‘Asylum seekers who have a realistic picture of the possibility of staying in Norway are among the challenges of the UDI.’ In addition, the UDI Director said: ‘I think it’s like many people who get a final rejection from UDI don’t think of it as completely final. They perceive the rejection as the start of a new process and have great hopes that they will succeed at some point in time.» Who is responsible for the perception of asylum seekers, and what will the Minister of Justice do to ensure that a final rejection is respected by those who have been repatriated?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e500	Of course, I could have tried to estimate how many shipments will take place. The objective is a higher figure than last year's, and in view of the fact that the number of asylum applications has also increased, it is important for us to achieve that target. I have been concerned with a comprehensive and good asylum and refugee policy. It must also include return, and it must include how to inform about Norwegian asylum and refugee policies. It is then important that the applicant for a stay in Norway has his/her case carefully evaluated and that he/she be given a stay when there are grounds for doing so. But it is also important that it is communicated early on how we expect a rejection to be followed up – both who announces, and how it is informed and communicated, is one of the things I am now following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e507	Follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e510	The main question arose on the third — or the 5,000 out of a total of 15 000 asylum recipients — who do not respect a final rejection. I thought I would challenge the Council of State a little bit about the group of 3,000 who are in a complaint process, but which you can then fear only use any part of the proceedings to find reasons for not going home, even if you know with yourself that you do not meet the requirements for asylum. It is a overlooked fact that asylum seekers do not have a requirement to wait in Norway. My question to the Council of State is: would it be possible to think of establishing and organising arrangements that will make people with their first refusal more waiting for final treatment abroad, precisely because the Norwegian authorities believe that they do not fulfil the conditions for asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e518	What we've been focusing on is shortening the processing time, and we've invested both in the Foreign Affairs Directorate and in the Foreign Affairs Department, which deals with the complaints, to achieve that. When I instead spent a lot of time on how a rejection is perceived, it is because I have asked the Foreign Affairs Directorate to go into the procedures we have for this. This is also important for an asylum seeker to be aware of early, even when dealing with a complaint — perhaps already when assessing whether a complaint is to be made. So now when we also look at whether we can streamline the treatment of the conversion requests, it's these areas where the government has focused primarily on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e525	Morten Ørsal Johansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e528	The previous question was about requests for conversion. At the Spring Conference of the UDI, the Council of State said that the government in our country will make a proposal for the Storting to reduce the possibility of asking for a change. Can the Council of State share with the Storting what measures does the Council of State want to take to reduce the potential for redevelopment to a much greater extent than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e533	I will explain this in detail when the matter is presented to Stortinget. What we're going through is both how the requirements have been set, how new information is actually available, and how we're still going to ensure that real requests for conversion are treated as we're obliged to, both under Norwegian and international obligations. So when it comes to what this might look like, I would recommend the representative to wait for the document that I am announcing to the Stortinget before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e538	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e541	In this policy picture, the government has also proposed several years ago to set up return centres or care centres, among others. in Kabul. You went quite high on the track and suggested it. But after many years we do not see any results from that proposal. My question is: Is it so that the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have listened to the massive criticism that came from several organisations, among others. The United Nations Children's Committee, and from the Christian People's Party, and so on, came to terms with better thoughts, or was this proposal really just a proposal that would send a signal to Afghanistan, so that children would not have the idea of going on the dangerous journey and coming here to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e546	The situation of single minor asylum seekers worries many – not only the government, but I would also believe many here in the main hall. A number of measures were taken to ensure the best possible use of lone minor pilots on a dangerous journey. Several measures were also taken to ensure a good basis for stay while awaiting treatment of their applications in this country. We could see that, happily enough, there was a reduction in the number of arrivals. Now we see again a worrying increase in these numbers. Opening up to assessing different measures, including the return centre in Kabul, is a fact. It's still saying. But it has been a difficult project to realize. I have nothing new to announce regarding the discussion we have had about this before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e551	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e554	The effectiveness of the decisions taken is important. That is why the Left has 30 million in its alternative state budget. kr more for voluntary return and 50 million. kr more for forced return. Many of the problems we see, for example. in the case of asylum-seekers, it is a question of people not returning, and of getting a new right from those children, in our opinion. But when you travel around the reception and talk to those who are sitting and working on a voluntary return, you get to hear a lot of funny stories. One of those stories is that UDI is trying to get the cheapest tickets possible. This means, for example: someone who is motivated to a voluntary return in May is told that they have to wait until August/September, because then the tickets will be cheaper, because then you have finished the holiday song. It is more expensive to have these on asylum reception during the period than what is saved on the UDI air ticket. In addition, people lose their motivation and do not want to go home again in September when the airline ticket is cheap. Does the administration really have an understanding of how important this is?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e561	I believe that a good and comprehensive work is being done in the foreign administration to ensure a voluntary return after the intention. These programmes have been substantially developed in recent years to ensure the best possible basis for the people and families concerned to re-establish themselves in their home country. Then I'm probably, as the representative Skei Grande pointed out, unable to say that there won't be cases that can be characterised as that there could have been a better job done here. But I think we share a fundamental wish that our arrangements should facilitate effective returns, and as far as we can, voluntary returns. That's the best thing for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e568	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e580	For representatives’ information, there are no changes to the list of questions set out in today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e587	‘All stakeholders are now working on planning for the establishment of Ørland Air Station as a fighter aircraft base. The signals so far give reason to ask to what extent defence wants to be integrated into the community of the region. A high level of weekly commuting and the construction of many services within the station area will not contribute positively to the reputation and legitimacy of the defence. How do the Councils of State view the need for integration into the community when such a large entity is to be expanded?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e594	The government attaches great importance to having an open and good dialogue with all stakeholders in civil society under projects that develop the defence infrastructure, as happens in Ørland. In connection with the establishment of a new fighter base in Ørland, it is in the common interest of both the Defence, Regional and Municipal Authorities, and not least the inhabitants of the Fosen region, to ensure that we get good solutions. Therefore, political and administrative levels have regular contact with the region. As a result, considerable emphasis has been placed on involvement and dialogue with stakeholders in the establishment of a new fighter base. It has positive experience from several regions in setting up non-base sports, welfare and health services. In Austria, there is already a cooperation on the provision of health services. The station hospital is co-located with the civil health centre. This cooperation has led to wider provision for the whole population and resource savings through economies of scale. I would also like to add that the defence has previously contributed significantly to the realization of the cultural building in Orland and to youth housing. I would like to stress that at this stage no decision has been taken as to which of the defence's offers should be open to the public. The starting point is that such facilities can be made available to the local population if the needs of the defence are not affected or if the costs are increased. As to the degree of weekly commuting it will be at the base, this is something that the Defense initially cannot regulate. However, ongoing dialogue between local communities and defence is also important in this area. It is both desirable to facilitate that as many of the defence employees as possible choose to live in the region, and that those who choose to commute get the best possible collective offer. A better collective offer will also help bind the Fosen region closer with Trondheim, which will be positive for the region in several ways. It is in the defence's interest to facilitate integration and solutions that are mutually beneficial in establishing the new fighter base on Ørland. It serves the community and ensures good conditions for employees and their families. Defence will contribute to broad dialogue in order to ensure good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e609	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad the Council of State says it's in the defence interest to ensure maximum integration into the community. The background to the question is that in the start-up phase of the development we are now in, there is a significant uncertainty in the relevant municipalities following the signals from the Defence Department. This leads to questions such as: The seller Defense Ørland/Bjugn primarily as an attractive place of residence, or as a place to spend the week? Does the Defence provide – as far as possible in purely professional-military terms – that military society should be integrated as far as possible? These are important fundamental questions for the relationship between defence and civil society in general. That is why I am committed to asking the Minister of Defence: does the Minister of Defence have a clear principle of the establishment of the defence to be integrated as far as possible into the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e616	Of course, I have a strong wish that the defence should be a positive contributor to society and positively integrated into society, especially as in Ørland. They have been. It was my experience in my first four years as Minister of Defence – and I was in Ørland several times. It is a strong dialogue, and it is a strong local commitment from the rapporteurs in the region, also up against the Ministry of Defence. It was supposed to be missing, too. The defence is in a situation where you use land in the community, and then you should just not be paying back. It is, of course, desirable that as many people as possible settle in the vicinity of their workplace, but I ask for an understanding that we cannot conduct that. We can try to facilitate it as well as possible, including in an integration with the whole region, for the benefit of the community – and also the proximity to Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e625	I thank you for the Council of State's response, which I see as positive. I see that we have the same principleal starting point for the relationship between defence and civil society in a community. I respect that the Council of State says that this is something we cannot regulate, among other things. the relation between weekly commuting and fixed residence, but it is clear that it is of great importance. There is concern in the community when you hear that hundreds of furniture are to be built inside the fence, that there are plans to do so – and the defence does not give clear enough signals that this is where you want the most people to live. My last question to the Council of State will be: How will the Council of State give it the signal downwards to the Defense that here you expect – even if you cannot regulate it, but that you give as clear a signal as possible – and actually want the defense to settle as much as possible, and that through its planning, it facilitates that more people choose to live there?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e634	This is something that I still have dialogue with the Defense, and it is also a very important part of developing the Defense Family Policy. So in most families today, there are two people who work, children are related to their community, and sometimes there are families who don't think it's right to move the whole family with when you move to work. But there is no doubt that we want, both for the defence and for the employees, that a maximum proportion of those who work in the defence should live near where they have their job. There are many reasons for this, and that is what we are trying to do, both in terms of housing, leisure activities and health services. This is precisely why the defence goes deeply into the civil institutions, in order to contribute to the realization, so that it will be good to live in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e645	"In the last two budget management operations in the Storting, there has been a dissatisfaction with the proposal for the Voluntary Sniper Service, DFS. At both levels, our committee notes have shown that there is a need to clarify the social role of the DFS and to cooperate with the Defence. We are aware that a working group will be set up to resolve these questions. What is the mandate, composition, status and progress plan and how will the Council of State ensure that this is completed to the 2014 budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e652	I am pleased that the representative Lødemel addresses the question of the Voluntary Sniper Service, DFS. The DFS has been an important player and partner for the Defence. They have received considerable financial support from the Ministry of Defence for many years. The annual grant to the DFS represents the deciduous maximum aid granted to a single organisation. However, the conversion of defence in recent years from an invasion defence to an intervention defence has made it apparent that there is a need for a thorough review of the DFS relevance to both the defence sector and society, including the award of financial assistance from the Ministry of Defence. In the context of the treatment of the State budget by the Stortingen in 2013, the majority also decided that such work should be undertaken. After the budgetary procedure in December, I have asked the Ministry to engage in dialogue with the Defence and the DFS in order to draw up a mandate and prepare such work. Of course, DFS has been closely involved in the preparations. I have recently received draft terms of reference and composition of the Working Party. I will take a decision on the matter within a very short time. The working group will be composed of representatives from the Ministry, Defence and DFS, and will be led by an external person with good competence in both Defence and DFS. I would also like to ask the Ministry of Justice and Defence to speak with a representative in the group. Details of the mandate and composition will be published on the Ministry's website. The working group will, inter alia: review the historical role of the DFS and the relationship with flooding and the department. The working group will also be asked to promote different connectivity models to public bodies with an assessment of economic and organisational/administrative implications. Such work will, of course, require some time to be done. I would therefore like to ask the Working Group to report on recommendations to the Ministry by the end of 2013. In response to the question, I have to comment on the 2014 budget: you don't say anything about it, but initially I can't see any big reason to change a lot on what has been level in 2013, until this work is done. The recommendations of the Working Group will form part of the basis for assessing the role and relationship of the DFS with the defence sector for 2015, including the allocation of financial support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e669	I thank you for your answer. This case has a longer history than from the 2013 budget. It started in the autumn of 2011, when DFS had to cut 6 million. I'm sorry. A total of large amounts of money are actively working to get back into the 2012 budget. Nothing happened in 2012. When we came to the budget management for 2013, none of these questions that one had raised were answered. It led to the same round in Stortinget, where a job to get up the vows again. The Committee's comments included: from the government party indicated that one should clarify the social tasks of the DFS, etc. Now we are soon in May 2013, and nothing has yet happened. I interpret the Council of State so that the DFS pledge for 2013 is also passed on in 2014. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e680	That's what I said in my answer. It is never that you can stand half a year before the budget is presented and tell exactly what the grant will be. But not to worry about it, the signal is that you have to have this review first, before you make big changes here – if you make big changes. So it's like the Storting has agreed that we're going to do this review. The preparatory work is under way in the Ministry; the budget was adopted in December. There should be no doubt that this is a work we have to do, and we have close dialogue with the DFS to realize this review in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e689	Voluntary Scython is a large and important volunteer organisation. There is no doubt that the way in which the DFS has been treated by the Department is regrettable – given that one has not come to a solution when it comes to their social tasks, in the two years that have passed. I'm pleased with the state council saying that she wants to have a good dialogue with the DFS. I think that's important to get this case done. I would like to point out a matter that came to the Ministry of Defence's home page on 9 November 2012, by the late political adviser Atle Ottesen. A lot of critical questions are asked to the DFS – unwarranted in my view. So there is a need for the Council of State itself to follow up the contact between the Department and the DFS, in order for one to continue the good dialogue. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to further concretely the good dialogue that it itself is discussing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e698	We will carry out the work we have told us to do, and we will do it in cooperation with the DFS – that is what we have told us to do. I would like to stress that I fully agree with the representative of Lødemel that DFS is a large and important organisation. The fact that it is the organisation that receives the largest individual grant — and it is significant in relation to other organisations — also underlines that reality. So is it that we work with all organisations in conversion to control money use. There is something not least the size has been concerned about. This is an important organization, also for the Defense, but once we've changed the entire Defense, including the device, we also have to see if this is how it should be in the future. But there should be no doubt that we are going to have a good dialogue with this big organization that means a lot in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e709	«Last week we could see an 82-year-old woman sitting on the pool in a nursing home in the Municipality of Women's Heath. The rapporteur said that this was a situation that one could expect for shorter periods. What is the value of the so-called dignity guarantee if the municipalities perceive that this is within the guarantee?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e716	Let me first make it very clear: placing institutional residents on the communal swimming pool is not something I see as a valuable service offer. This applies regardless of the sex and age of the residents. I am also sure that this view is shared by both the representative of Höie and the rapporteur in the municipality of Kvinnherad. The last thing I can confirm after talking to her about the matter. If, for that matter, the municipality of Kvinnherad – or any other municipality in Norway – systematically uses communal swimming facilities as a living room, I assume that the supervisory authority, the County Council, reacts to the relationship and follows up the municipality in order to terminate such a practice. Then I recognize that situations can arise that, over a shorter period, may require solutions that are not optimal. In the event of an acute shortage of institutional facilities, the solution may in some cases be to provide health and care services in the patient’s own home, possibly to buy a place in another municipality. There is reason to stress that even in the situation of the local authorities in the area of Women’sherad – a difficult economic situation – the municipality is obliged to provide sound and adequate health and care services. I have noticed that the County of Hordaland has announced that care services will now be supervised in this municipality. I'm glad we have a supervision that works. It's part of the quality assurance. In the case of a provision for a dignified care of the elderly, or the guarantee of dignity, it has two objectives. One is to ensure that older people do not become unreasonable in relation to the overall efforts of municipal health and care services. The second is that the guarantee of dignity provides precise guidance on the content of the health care requirement. With sound health and care services, we do not just mean a service offering that meets the professional requirements for treatment and care. It also refers to a service provision that is individually adapted to the individual patient and to the needs, needs and assumptions of the user. The guarantee of dignity also applies in such situations as we have now seen in Women's Heath. If the municipality considers it necessary to make adjustments in order to meet the acute needs of hospitalisation sites, the requirement of safety and the guarantee of dignity requires that individual consideration be given to the choice of solution – preferably in cooperation with patients and users. When the County of Hordaland supervises the provision of services to the elderly in Kvinnherad, the guarantee of dignity will be part of the supervisory authorities’ assessment of the safety requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e731	I am happy to hear that the Minister of Health agrees with me that it is far beyond the guarantee of dignity to give older people this type of offer, whether it is too short or longer periods. It is probably also contrary to a number of other laws. It is part of the story that this was in many ways a notified disaster for the elderly in the municipality of Kvinnherad – given that the municipal government shut down a nursing home and was told clearly that this would have major consequences. The rapporteur defended this by saying that there was no desirable situation, ‘but in periods, an estimate must be made of moving into spaces which are not the first choice’. It was directly attached to this bathroom. So my question to the Council of State is: what makes municipalities continue to act as if this is within the framework of the legislation – given that the guarantee of dignity has been for so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e743	We have 429 municipalities in the country, and I am sure that in the vast majority of cases – and in the vast majority of cases – there is a practice that is in line with both the law and this regulation. I want to be very clear that moving a resident into a bathroom is not proper. The fact that there may be non-optimal choice of rooms, you may experience in shorter periods when special situations arise, but a bath is not such an offer. I feel that the rapporteur has also now made a clear statement. He has received another offer. And there's supervision – so that's what the system works. Now I cannot comment on individual matters – I think both the President and the representative understand that – and there may be aspects of this that we do not have a full overview of, but what we have in mind is enough to establish it. Then I hope that this municipality, which is in a difficult financial situation, and which has made choices regarding the arrangements for the care of the elderly, will nevertheless be given strong leadership from both the County and other supervisory authorities to discharge the obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e750	This — and this is the situation in several other municipalities — is due to the general lack of health care facilities. There is a deficiency that has been exacerbated by the Interaction Reform: one sees a positive effect by the fact that several are written faster out of the hospital, but many of them then use hospitalised places that the municipalities had originally planned to use for shorter long-term stays for their elderly. Since 2008, there have been 69 more sick places in Norway until 2012. Is the Council of State certain that the rate of expansion of sick homes – new and more – that one now sees in Kommune-Norway is keeping pace with the need as a result of the development of old age and, in particular, the reform of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e757	As far as age development is concerned, I am sure that we are on the right track, and for the goals we have set in the Health Care Plan 2015, about 12,000 sick homes, we are well on track. With regard to the interaction reform, I have also seen that it has some effects that may be questionable by the fact that there is load in places that were intended for others. I don't think we can avoid such situations happening. The need for care in our country is not just related to age, it may be related to the individual’s situation. We are hoped that the municipalities will be able to adapt to this, which over time will ensure that the two reasons do not conflict. The real challenge of capacity will come in an eight-to-ten year's time, when demography indicates that we have more older people. But throughout, OECD studies and others show that we have a very good care provision for our elderly. And then we have – and we should be glad – supervisory authorities that can address situations that are not as they should be. The press is also following up on such matters, and that is also an extra guarantee for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e766	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-24.ana.ud852e779	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
