ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-07.ana.ud533e24	The representative, Karin Andersen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the leave of the representative of Ingrid Heggø in days 7-8. October to take part in final meetings of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva of the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of Mr Jørund Rytman from 7 October to 9 October to take part in the presidential elections in Azerbaijan On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For Sogn and Fjordane County: Tor Bremer
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-07.ana.ud533e62	Tone Heimdal Brataas and Tor Bremer are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-07.ana.ud533e90	The right to vote based on the principle of free and secret elections is a cornerstone of our democracy: the right of individual to vote on the basis of conviction, the security of the vote that is cast means something – that it counts – that the vote cannot be rejected, that the electoral law ensures real voting rights, that the electoral system is based on the necessary organisation and competence to achieve this. Our democracy is stable and incorporated. Next year, the Constitution and our Parliament will be 200 years old, this year we will celebrate 100 years with a general vote for women. After a roll-call election, the national election board shall issue mandates for all staging representatives and alternates. The authorizations are sent to Stortinget, and § 64 of the Constitution states that the Stortinget must approve and assess the legality of the powers, i.e. decide whether we are all validly selected. A Single Powers Committee and a Single Preparatory Powers Committee have suspended their approval. The overall impression of the election is that it was largely well and effectively carried out in the municipalities, and that the counties have carried out a thorough check. But some things we have nevertheless chosen to have to put our finger on. In fact, the Committee stresses that unresponsiveness and slurry from electoral officials may have, and may have, adverse consequences. The Committee also considers that there must be zero tolerance for failure of the basic acts to be implemented by the voter according to the Election Act § 9-5. These include the check of the number of votes and the stamping of the ballot, the absence of stamps or the fact that stamping carried out with such a light hand that it is not visible has led to the rejection of the ballot number in several places. In fact, this is the most common cause of rejection. The question you can ask is whether the working time of the electoral officials has been too long – from 1 p.m. 9 in the morning until everything was counted up at midnight was e.g. the situation in parts of Oslo. We also have examples that ballots were not packed properly and that the shipment was not sealed. To this end, the Committee asks the municipalities to tighten up the procedures in this particular area. In general, the Committee stresses that good practices must be implemented so that they do not fail in the natural, simple actions – such as: a note has a clear stamp before being placed in the urn by the selector. A key factor for the correct, safe and effective closure of the elections is also good training of the electoral officials and voters. Each voter must have sufficient knowledge of the electoral code in order to decide how a vote is to be handled when a voter does not belong to a so-called normal category, i.e. one that is both in his/her capacity and that has both election cards and credentials. Although it is difficult to fully guard against some defects and shortcomings, quality must be assumed at all stages of the electoral process. This is also a prerequisite for voters' confidence in our electoral system, and it includes, of course, good, well-worked and appropriate legislation. One of the changes to the electoral law before the autumn's elections was the introduction of a simplified procedure for the prior voting of voters who vote in advance in the municipality in which they are called. As a general rule, these voters vote in the same way as at the election, provided that the voter is able to check directly for the voter in the electronic number before the ballot is stamped and placed in the urn – instead of using the ballot and subsequent approval of the ballot. Electronic check-out in the pre-sampling number is part of the new electronic election management system, abbreviated EVA, which was used for the first time at this choice. At the election 15 municipalities used electronic check-out. In addition to a nationwide census, EVA includes a system for scanning ballots used by about 100 municipalities and all counties in their control count. All the selection data and results are now extracted from the EVA system. There has also been a comprehensive training programme – I think we should stress that – in this particular case. Some electoral officials may have experienced the challenge of getting involved in the new electoral system. It is important that users are listened to in the context of the further development of EVA and in the way training is done. So there are some system errors and sources of fault records. In order to provide a good basis for the necessary improvement and quality assurance before the forthcoming elections, the Committee believes that the whole EVA electoral system should be evaluated – including the training programme. The Committee also considers that the need for electoral information on the electoral procedure should not be underestimated and that an offensive effort should be made to achieve this in advance of a choice. There are examples of voters putting multiple ballots inside each other and forgetting to check if they're in the number of votes. This should be avoided. In the same way as four years ago, the Committee has been registered, and has been made aware of from several counties, that some voters who have wanted to make changes to the ballot have not understood how they should proceed. Let me add that it has no effect on who was elected, this is purely symbolic. It may be added that the OSCE and its electoral observers believe that as long as this does not have an impact, it may not be something we should have. However, I would like to point out a previous treatment in Stortinget in the spring part concerning the electoral law, asking for an evaluation or review of this with ironing and cumulation. We have received reports that indicate that people who wanted to give voice to people, that is to say to cumulate, have, of course, set a cross – and then they have crossed instead. We received the same notifications in 2009, and this is about crossings being the way you cumulate in municipal elections. The Committee considers that this cannot be resolved by information; it must be resolved by changing the appearance of the ballot box. We are aware, of course, that different rules for voting in local government and county council elections and decision-making are the background for different forms of voting. Nevertheless, the Committee takes the same view as both the previous Committee of Regulators, i.e. four years ago, and the Committee of Supervisors and Institutions, on this issue. We have therefore asked the Ministry to contribute to the drafting of the ballots in future elections so that the voters do not check a voting box for votes in municipal and county elections and for deletion in rollover elections. This is really simple and should be curative, but we're repeating this now and hoping that we'll get a better layout of the ballots in four years. Finally, I would like to comment on an unfortunate case on which a critical search light has been put on by many teams – rightly so. It is of course that so many pre-voices were not approved because they arrived too late. On this basis, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs carried out a survey in all municipalities. It showed that at least 1653 votes in advance were received after the deadline. 21 the election evening, and thus was rejected. This happened despite the fact that it seems that most municipalities complied with the provision in the Election Regulation Section 27 and sent the pre-senting by A-mail. But think about it: it's Friday night, and this is going to come out by Monday. 21st Last@item: inlistbox Nevertheless, it is clear that this is unacceptable and must be avoided in future elections. The Committee considers that, in line with the opinion of the Committee of Regulators four years ago, and like the National Election Board, both legislation and transit procedures need to be evaluated, and that proposals must be made for measures to ensure that ex ante votes issued outside its own municipality are produced in good time. Otherwise, one simply has to close the pre-selection one day before. Let me then add that there is nothing to suggest that incoming votes that were not approved have had any significance for the election result, nor in Hordaland. It has also agreed with both the National Election Board and the Committee, just so we underline it. But if the margins of this election had been smaller, the large number of rejected votes could have had an impact on the election result. It emphasizes the seriousness, and that it needs to be taken into account in order to avoid going into the same situation again. The voters must be able to expect their vote to arrive in time when they vote within the time limit set by the authorities. The Committee has also pointed out the problem in that most of the rejections on the basis of late votes were not presented in EFTA statistics. This is particularly unfortunate because the statistics are the basis for the control of the choice. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to ensure that better procedures are in place, both for registration and for reporting to county electoral councils, of late votes. So finally, in twelve municipalities, it has been possible to vote at home from the kitchen table on a PC in this election by trial arrangement. I would like to stress that this has been very controversial in Stortinget. This is not in the position, and we have not dealt with it for the simple reason that this should be evaluated and come later to Stortinget, and then it will be dealt with – I believe – in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. With this I would recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-07.ana.ud533e139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-07.ana.ud533e164	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
