ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e26	The representative, Gunvor Eldegard, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e41	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Bent Höie and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e48	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Thank you for yesterday, to say it like that – or today early. What is the Minister of Finance's comment? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e55	It was very pleasant, I'd say. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e60	This budget has got off to a good start, we can say. One of the most important things that has happened in our country since 1970 is that women have increased their participation in the labour market. Much of this can be attributed to profound changes in our society, but also to the fact that we have made it possible for women to combine family and work. The welfare community facilitates such development – combining work and family. It is an important part of welfare policy. Over the years, we have achieved full child care coverage, the kindergarten has become cheaper, the quality has increased, and we proposed in our budget option to escalate up to two babysittings this year. The birth rate has increased from 5 weeks to 14 weeks, and we have removed the cash support for two-year-olds. The budget we adopted yesterday — or almost today early — reverses this trend. It's cut in cardboard, it's cut in babysitting, and it's getting more expensive kindergarten than in our proposal. Cash support is increased and tax class 2, which weakens the labour incentives and integration of immigrant women, is reintroduced. Individually, these cuts are helping to weaken the line of work, the equality and, I would say, the integration. Now I know that the Minister of Finance is busy stimulating people to work. For example, in the supplementary proposition, she writes: removing tax class 2 can promote equality, and this is particularly important for the integration of migrant women. So she sees the relationship between these arrangements and work. Now she didn't get a majority for that view. But how does the Minister of Finance think we can stimulate people to work if we look at the welfare system, on how we can combine family and work? I notice that the answer to that is very quickly reduced tax. As we illustrated here last night, for most people, it will be about NOK 1 day of reduced tax – not a heavy incentive to change people's habits. But as far as welfare systems are concerned, it is important. So how does the Minister for Finance view the questions when she is planning the budgetary policy further?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e71	Let me thank you for a very important question that it is possible to reflect quite a lot on. It is clear that, on the one hand, it is important for the value creation in Norway that as much work as possible is being done, and that work is as far as possible. On the other hand, there are also some fundamental values in our society that relate to the family's ability to be with their own children. Therefore, it is important to strike a good balance between care options, especially when children are small, and the instruments we use to stimulate a maximum proportion of the population to be at work. Then, of course, we have to look both at all welfare systems and at how we can link welfare systems up with other incentives to stimulate people to work. I'm doing a lot of this work with the rest of the government. It's about turning all the stones around to see if we can arrange some of the arrangements in another way. It is quite right, as Gahr Støre says, that the previous government put forward a proposal to remove tax class 2. It maintained this government, but after the negotiations and conciliation in Stortinget it has been reduced halfway. It's a step in the right direction, I'll say. I have also recorded that the debate that is taking place in Stortinget is that if you are going to take the step completely out and remove the entire tax class 2, you have to do it with an opportunity to prepare it and through other transitional arrangements. I think we should be open to a broad debate on how to get even more of those who are on the outside of the labour market into the labour market today. It's really the most important job in front of us, getting all those outside to come in – at least those who have the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e84	In this context, the topic of social security exports has been discussed regularly – we see it in the paper today. People who work in Norway receive cash benefits at Norwegian level and send them to their home country, where they have much greater value. One measure that is currently being discussed is the cost adjustment of these benefits. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs raised this question, but the Brochmann Committee pointed to the basic relationship, that more cash benefits, such as cash support, could also be turned into services that cannot be taken out of the country, for example. children's gardening space. What does the Minister of Finance think about this proposal? If I can take it one step further: Social security exports increase the risk of social dumping, because it makes it easier for foreign workers to accept low wages in Norway because the value of the cash benefits they can send home is getting relatively higher. What is the Minister of Finance thinking about this policy of increasing social security exports and the risk of social dumping? It is interesting to know how the government will work against social dumping, which is a major challenge in our high-cost country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e91	There were a lot of questions here at once. The government has stated that we will also work against social dumping in Norway. So the question of social security exports. It is clear that it is a demanding issue, as I note that the previous government did not do much to combat it. This government has determined that it will both follow up the Brochmann Committee in an appropriate way and look at how, for example, a may consider converting the cash support into a statutory municipal benefit. I record that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in today's newspaper says that he will look at the possibility of cost-adjustment of these benefits. He will certainly come back to that in an appropriate way, but I can assure you at least that the government will follow measures to combat rising social security exports, both on the platform and in the proposal that we will come back to the Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e102	It opens up two follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e105	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has a slightly different view than the Workers' Party, which clearly believes that the Norwegian family is primarily a production unit in AS Norway. I am glad that the Minister of Finance has a slightly broader view of what family life really is. So to this with social security exports, which also the Workers' Party uses about the specific arrangements they themselves do not agree with. So these are the systems where the export problem is the least, if we first call it that. It's the other, larger and general arrangements where this is the most important thing to address, if you're going to discuss this. My question then is: Does the Minister of Finance think that Norwegian beneficiaries of these benefits living in other countries also need to be assessed, and that these benefits should also be adjusted, where appropriate, at a cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e112	The government has announced that it will review the Brochmann Committee’s report and look at all the measures that can contribute — individually and collectively — to limit social security exports, which is an increasing challenge, not only for Norway but also for many other countries with good welfare arrangements. It's a growing problem. I register – and I am so pleased – that the opposition working party has become more concerned with doing something about this. So they had eight years to do something about it, but I can't record that social security exports were getting smaller then. Then I think it might be a little easy to say that all the challenges associated with social security exports will be solved if we remove the cash support. I don't believe anything in it. It's a limited system, a small part of a family's time with little children. But that we have to turn all the stones to see how we can get this done, this government is set to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e122	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e125	The great success in the Norwegian labour market is that both sexes are active participants, and that we are almost equal. It has come thanks to a very active policy, not least the policy of young children. The parental leave has been a major success. Kindergarten development has been a major success, which has made both sexes active professionals. In recent years, we have improved parental leave, especially for fathers. At least I've been very happy about that. So everyone who is here knows that party leader Siv Jensen has been concerned with equality – at least in speeches. How is it for Minister of Finance Siv Jensen when one in her first budget cuts the parental leave and balances that it gives a saving because fewer fathers want to share time with their children, because of the policy that you now choose to pursue?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e132	The main rationale of the government for making changes to the federal system is freedom of choice. I think it's a little easy to say that the government's motivation to do this is to balance other tasks out of the budget. No, the government's main motivation for doing this is because, unlike the red-green parties, we believe that the families themselves can make wise choices. We will therefore facilitate greater freedom of choice for families with children. We mean that in itself is a value. I fully agree that it is important that, through a wide range of measures and instruments, we facilitate women to be active participants in the labour market, but it must also be possible for families with children to choose differently for a limited period of time. I don't think it's our job as politicians to control it. We're going to facilitate real freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e139	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e142	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Last year Bent Höie said in this hall: ‘An overall opposition requires an independent review of the capital process. Patients, relatives and employees are entitled to know about the lack of planning and the framework for the merger has compromised patient safety.» Out in Health-Norway, it's pretty common when we've had big things, that we have debrifing. Then we go through it to look at: what did we do well? What did we do bad? What can we learn for the next time? Hospitals and health are something that concerns everyone. We live in a society that spends an incredible amount of money in hospitals. Then it's also incredibly important to learn from history. What can we do better? We're going to build more hospitals. We might have to combine services. Then we have to learn from what we once did. Since the merger here in Oslo, everyday life has consisted of long queues, stress, mistreatment, frustrated employees and a bunch of complaints. So we've had different revisions. The National Audit Board looked at how we spend the money. So, health oversight on individual matters — what has happened? No one's ever looked at the whole causal relationship. We've seen pieces and pieces, not all over the pile. I think a comprehensive overview would have been better to learn from this process. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: on what basis does the Council of State no longer see the need to have an independent investigation, despite all the calls from people who feel that hospital life in the capital is something quite different from what we would like to read in the newspapers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e158	As I answered this question the first time I got it after I had become Minister of Health and Care, I am concerned that if you are going to have an independent study of the capital process, there should be something pointing forward, and from which we can learn for the future. I therefore fully agree with the representative's input to this issue. That's why I was also very busy going in and looking at what work is going on, to get answers to the questions that not least the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left had last year. It was very much about the unnatural deaths that had happened at Oslo University Hospital. It was about how this process affected the relationships of employees, and what we could learn from it for future processes. It is important for me to say that I see nowhere else in Norway in the foreseeable future will face dramatic changes similar to what was started when it came to the capital process. Until one goes in and looks at the work going on: we will soon have an investigation of all the adverse events and infections in patients who died at Oslo University Hospital in 2011. There is a study on the review of all patient deaths in 2012. It is also an accompanying research project from SINTEF on an ongoing evaluation of the merger process itself, presented in 2015. We get a national audit report on some of these issues, which is likely to be presented tomorrow. I believe that many of these questions will hopefully be answered. Then I think it is unnecessary to start a double job. If it turns out that these studies do not provide adequate answers, I believe that a person should reconsider the question raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e169	I'm glad someone at least opens up the possibility. It's now that if we're not going to have the big expansions elsewhere in the country in the future, planning, capacity, patient mobility means that employees are involved, that information goes out to them, and how we use the heads, something. This together, I think it's important to evaluate. That is why I wonder: does the Council of State see it so that the situation here in Oslo is no longer serious? Does that mean that you have nothing to learn from this? One says it's taken care of, there's coming new reports. So we can kind of settle down. Or are we willing to look in the card deck and say that this wasn't good enough, we're not going to take individuals, but we want to learn to get better in small and large sized development?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e178	The previous national audit report, as well as the consultation of the Committee on Control and Constitution of the United Kingdom on this process, which has already been carried out — and the Stortinget has dealt with those reports — show that what made it extremely difficult to deal with the mission given to Health South-East, was that one started by merging several major hospitals, while a large part of the patient base was lifted into a completely new hospital. I think everyone agrees that is extremely complex and very difficult to implement. I do not see now that we are facing similar processes elsewhere in Norway, and therefore that particular issue is unlikely to have great transfer value to others. Of course, we need to learn from the lack of follow-up that was in that process, and also the importance of this for a future governance model, but that's exactly what the government is now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e185	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e188	A study on the review of adverse events and infections is soon to be available in patients who died in Oslo University Hospital in 2011. A review of all patient deaths is now being established in 2012, and perhaps we will receive a national audit report – perhaps tomorrow or another day. The challenge facing me and the Christian People's Party is: these investigations have not been established in the last few weeks, at least not the national audit report that is now on the stairs, nor the report on deaths due to adverse events and infections in Oslo University Hospital. What, then, is it that the Council of State Höie has now turned around in relation to the commitment he had to have an independent review earlier this fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e195	I'm a little uncertain about what a referee to when a believe I had an commitment to an independent scrutiny earlier this fall. When this was mentioned – as the representative of Bollestad referred to in the previous article – it was in the context of the budget debate in December 2012. At that time, at least I was not aware that this investigation work related to the unnatural deaths was being carried out at Oslo University Hospital for 2011 and 2012. In addition, a follow-up report from SINTEF has also been initiated related to the migration process itself. I believe that it was the questions that these parties were concerned about getting an answer at the time. Hopefully, we will now get a good answer to this, but if the answers are not good enough, there is a chance at any time to launch new studies, either internally or externally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e201	Karianne O. Heavy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e204	In an post in Aftenposten 29 November 2012, the Stable Representative, Bent Höie, refers to the board and management of Health South-East as ‘faceless bureaucrats’. He goes on to say: ‘The Minister of Health has done nothing but assure the Storting that she had full confidence that Health South-East had full control.’ Furthermore, Bent Höie also promoted a claim for Health Minister Jonas Gahr Støre on the Spring Party for an independent review of Oslo University Hospital. However, a few days ago, 25 November 2013, the Ministry of Health’s website stated: ‘I trust that the many processes initiated and planned by hospitals and health care establishments are sufficient to ensure a good health service for the capital area.’ Höie thus adheres to former health minister Jonas Gahr Støre's plan and now rejects the need for an examination of Oslo University Hospital. It is positive that Bent Höie has now turned 180 degrees, but what has changed in the last year, which means that Höie now rejects such an investigation and joins Gahr Støre's plan and not least the proposed measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e221	Questions relating to the proposal by the opposition parties at the time, in December, about an independent investigation I answered in the previous submissions. The representative refers to the interpellation debate I had with Jonas Gahr Støre on this question in February this year. My main conclusion in the interpellation debate was that the health minister had to sit down at the same table as Health South-East and discuss the concrete challenges associated with the situation in the capital area, both at Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East. That's exactly what I've done in the last few weeks – on several occasions – and the summary of that work was presented at the beginning of this week. This means that there is now a concrete work on how to increase capacity both in the area of Oslo University Hospital and in the area of Aarhus. A concrete effort has been made to investigate the unnatural deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e228	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e231	OUS is a fact. The merge process has failed. The question is what state council thinks we should learn from what has happened, against investment and processes elsewhere. We know that healthcare professionals now plan major hospitals in several other regions, including the United Kingdom. in the West Viken, where they plan a major hospital in the Drammen area. After what I've heard, it's going to be bigger than Ahus. In Hedmark and Uppland, they also plan a large hospital for the benefit of more people, as it is today. We know about research from Sweden on hospital mergers that have shown that three out of four hospital mergers have failed. My questions to the Council of State are how he will ensure that other draft terms of merger in Norway are made on a professional and politically correct basis, how much hospital we are going to have in Norway, and how the Council of State will ensure that it is made on the right basis of decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e238	I'm a little unsure if I can take the problem description of the representative Toppe, if it has any connection with the challenges that have been in the capital area. I don't realize that a major challenge is that Aarhus is too big – on the contrary, the main challenge is that Aarhus is too little. One of our answers to this is precisely the establishment of a national health and hospital plan that promises much more discussion about the development of needs and how our healthcare system is to meet changes in the population structure, disease development and also the division of tasks between municipalities and specialist health services. This must be done in such a way that we actually ensure that the large expansions we are facing are dimensioned in such a way that they correspond to the need. It also has to make sure that we do not get into the situation we've been in regarding Ahus, that one of our latest and most modern hospitals is too small on the day it opens, and one has to start improvising solutions immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e245	Audun Lighthouse – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e248	It wasn't just in the budget debate last year that Bent Höie demanded scrutiny. I saw there was a media census yesterday, where it was found that Bent Höie had demanded a review 13 times, and that he had now had the opportunity to demand it for the fourteenth time – and this time get a hit. I am not going to drill on what is Bent Höie now has become aware of, which he was not aware of the 13 other times this question was being assessed, but rather raise a related issue. The structural issues that may have been most problematic in recent years in Hospital-Norway have been the capital process and the collection of Health South-East. One of the choices from the Right that we in SV have had a little sense of is that you want to look critically at the health regions and how they work. I notice that the government has discovered that some things take time, and therefore I would like to hear when we can expect a matter of reorganization of what is today Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e255	First, I have to thank you for the opportunity to respond to this claim that I have required independent review 13 times. It's completely wrong. The 13 times referred to the fact that even in the Great Britain 13 times the previous government has addressed the challenges posed by the capital processes. It is quite interesting that in the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee with the previous government on this process, the references made by the previous government were that the Stortinget was informed of the most demanding migration process in Norwegian health care, almost exclusively initiatives taken by the undersigned or others in opposition to the Stortinget. Had it not been for those initiatives, Stortinget had almost no information about this. It says a lot about how closely the previous government was involved in the demanding process. With regard to the question raised by the representative, we will now work on drawing up a national health and hospital plan. When we know the time perspective for it, we will also be able to indicate to a greater extent when we are going to start with the reorganisation and follow up the government platform with regard to regional health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e264	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e267	We have several discussions going on with our friends in the EU. One is about a differentiated employer's fee, another is about the bank deposit guarantee scheme. Last week, state councillor Helgesen was here in Stortinget. He made a lot of unclear signals, and several of those signals we disagreed with. But he made a clear signal, which we agreed with, and it was that the government would at least stand up in one area for Norwegian interests, for Norwegian small savers, for Norwegian companies, for Norwegian banks. Helgesen was quite clear that the government was going to fight actively to maintain the Norwegian bank deposit guarantee scheme, which has been the focus of a total collapse. At the same time, in Berlin, Prime Minister Erna Solberg was on his first big trip abroad and was going to have a meeting with the German Minister of Finance. And what signals did we get after that meeting? The signals were that this is difficult. It's hard to get through. And the headlines of the largest Norwegian newspapers were that Erna Solberg has given up the fight for the Norwegian bank deposit guarantee scheme. So in one day, the State Council had a clear signal here in Stortinget, while Prime Minister Solberg had a clear signal in Berlin. The government had two visions. My question to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen is: Does she have a third view? Or she can clarify what is actually the government's view in the fight for a lasting arrangement where we can take care of the Norwegian bank deposit guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e279	I can assure the Norwegian Government that this government is also following up the work done by the previous government in connection with the deposit guarantee scheme. There has been a unanimous increase that has repeatedly expressed its support for the continuation of the Norwegian bank deposit guarantee. I am going to Strasbourg to meet Commissioner Barnier at the beginning of December just to further strengthen the Norwegian position related to this. Then it's not right that Battle Violence Vedum claims that the Prime Minister has said something other than what I have said and the State Council Vidar Helgesen has said. We have said the exact same thing, namely that the Norwegian position is fixed. But we have also underlined all three that we cannot close our eyes to the trialogue negotiations that are currently taking place in the European Union. Neither did the then Minister of Finance Johnsen, who also made clear to our counterparts in the EU what kind of transitional arrangements we can then imagine, given that we are not allowed to continue the system of which a unanimous increase is involved. The present government prepared an alternative position. It hasn't changed, it's also stuck on the side of this government. This is about trying to put in place broad, sustainable transitional arrangements as a subsidiary position. But again – our starting point is to do what we can to ensure that the current Norwegian scheme is continued. That's why I'm also going to Strasbourg to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e288	At least it is gratifying that the government has the same view when they are in the staging room. This is a step forward from what we could hear in the debate yesterday. Now I expect that the Council of State Jensen is clear and clear also when she comes out of the staging room, when she meets her European colleagues, and that the minutes of these meetings are not going to be no, we are not going to make it. We must have a five-year transitional arrangement. The battle is lost, as in the minutes of Erna Solberg's meetings. If Norway is to be implemented, the government must dry out to have a clear tone both here and in meetings with its European colleagues. You lose negotiating power, you lose strength if you don't dare stand the line all the way out. The reports from last week gave a clear signal that Prime Minister Solberg had already given up. Then I would like to ask Minister of Finance Siv Jensen at the end: Does Minister of Finance Siv Jensen think it is wise for the government to appear with a clear force, or does she think it is still wise to have one tone in Norway and one tone abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e297	The government is talking to one tongue in this matter, and it will help the government if also the Storting did so. I have problems understanding why Battle Violence Vedum is trying to create the impression that the government does not have the same view, depending on whether we are talking about this matter in the Stortinget or on the outside of Stortinget – that is simply not true. We have followed this up in all possible ways through correspondence with the EU's counterparts, through the meetings we have with our respective counterparts when we travel. It will be well cared for. I just want to encourage the representatives of big business to join in the view that the government is continuing from the previous one. This will at least help to ensure that the need to provide the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme is understood by our counterparties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e308	It opens for three follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e311	The background to the question that was asked is that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is an outstanding representative who reads newspapers, and I assume that those who write there have spoken to the Prime Minister. But it's very good that you get to prepare it the way you've done here today. There are a number of issues, such as the representative Schlagsvold Vedum so introductoryly, which are important in the future. Some of the first centre party and the red-green government did in 2005, were to get hold of the negotiations and reintroduce the differentiated employer fee, which was also mentioned. The inconclusive attitude of the government now shows towards the EU gives cause for concern about the outcome of the renegotiations that are now facing the door due to a differentiated pay for employers. When we negotiated, there was close cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which was entirely decisive, and of course a stop where one did not bend, but stood up for Norwegian interests. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that the government will offensively stand firm on the negotiating basis that the red-green government sent the EU earlier this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e324	I simply disagree with the statement made by the representative of Mr Navarsete that this government has an inconvenient attitude towards the European Union. I do not agree with that. In the government platform, it is clear that the work we are going to do is primarily about safeguarding Norwegian interests. There are many good reasons for this – precisely because the EU is our top trading partner. It is then important to have good dialogue, good trade mechanisms, while at the same time ensuring Norwegian interests in all areas where it is important. In the case of the differentiated employer fee, it has been the subject of many and demanding negotiations by the Norwegian side. But also that question has had a unanimous staging behind it. The last time there were challenges to the differentiated employer’s fee, extensive dialogue also took place with the Stortinget to ensure the broadest possible agreement on the scheme we ended up with. It ensures the best possible care for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e331	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e334	The representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, spoke of ‘our friends in the EU’. I think I need to talk to the representative afterwards about what friends he's looking for, because I haven't heard so much about those friendships before. [[Laughter]] Let me say that right here we fully support the government. In fact, there are those in the opposition who are trying to give the impression of confusion. On the other hand, the cheese duty is a different matter, but in this particular case we certainly believe that the government has followed up a unanimous decision. Then the Minister of Finance spoke about permanent transitional arrangements. Then it might be interesting how long they're going to last. This means, for example: do you imagine a position where the old rules will apply to deposits outstanding at the time, while the general rules will apply to any new deposits?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e343	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party so clearly supports the government on this issue. It is important that Norway speak with one tongue to our counterparts in the EU about this. So I just want to repeat: our starting point is to do what we can to secure the arrangement we already have. That is what the government believes will be the very best thing for Norwegian depositors in Norwegian banks. But then we cannot close our eyes because the negotiations that are currently taking place are in a different direction – or at least we have to say that it is a counter-ground, with Norwegian eyes. That is why former Finance Minister Sigbjørn Johnsen took a position that I am following up, which is that we must ensure that all deposits in a future scheme are treated equally, and that any transition period will last for many years. That's one of the starting points for the discussion that's going on, but once again, our starting point is to secure the arrangement we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e350	I notice that the main contribution of the Christian People's Party in this questionnaire is to keep support for the sitting government, without having to comment on it further. I think the Minister of Finance should understand that when there are so many different signals coming from different governments, we get a little worried. Erna Solberg said on 21 November: ‘The best thing we can hope for is limited exceptions and good transitional arrangements.’ It is with respect to report something quite different than the line Sigbjørn Johnsen, SV, the Center Party and the Workers’ Party in the previous government. So you've started to talk about plan B in public -- about what happens if you don't get a pass. It is not a good bargaining strategy, and therefore I would like to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to strengthen his negotiating position with the EU by asking: Will the Minister of Finance allow Norway to exercise the right of reservation in order to secure the Norwegian guarantee amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e357	Actually, the representative Serigstad Valen should also make a contribution to the work that the government is now doing towards the EU. We follow up on absolutely all points the positions of the red-green government regarding the deposit guarantee scheme – all positions. So it's about – point 1 – doing what we can to ensure the system that Norway has today, which we think is the best system. It is also – paragraph 2 – about not being naive and not closing your eyes because there are negotiations that are not necessarily in line with the Norwegian position. We then need to ensure that the best possible outcome of what is best for the Norwegian position is achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e363	We're going to the next main question, which is from Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e366	My question is to the Minister of Knowledge. There has long been a broad political majority who want the study support to be extended to eleven months, and many have therefore been critical of the previous government because they did not implement it, even though they were put on a majority in the UK. When they finally took hold and put this into the budget, it was after they had lost a choice and when they knew they didn't have to take the bill. I am sure that the Council of State agrees with me that it is somewhat inexorable for a disfellowshipping government to do so – that is, to try to take credit for a good and important measure while sending the bill to the next government. But I can also understand the disappointment of the students when the sitting government presented the supplementary proposal, and eleven months of study support had been removed. Eleven months of student support has long been a matter for the students, and it is an important matter for realising the full-time student and the knowledge society. As I said, there is also a majority in the United Kingdom for this to be done. A budgetary agreement has now been reached between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which clearly shows that the student's living conditions are to be investigated, and that this investigation will include a plan to increase student support and, in particular, the length of the study support. So I want to ask the Council of State: what kind of progress does he see that this investigation is going to have, and what ambitions do the Council of State have about the size and length of the study aid in four years – seen in the light of this budget agreement that has now been concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e381	Thank you for the question. I just want to talk a little bit about the background. In the budget we took over in 2014, there was a further zero SEK in student support in addition to the increase in price, and that has been in itself the situation since 2006, if I do not remember errors, and it has caused the students to slow down compared to e.g. Norwegian employees. So what we put in the budget for next year was an increase of about. NOK 3 500. It's an increase that's not just as large an increase as expected wage growth, but a little bit more. I understand that the students wanted even more. It's not hard to understand. I have also said that I understand that the students were disappointed, without having to go into the whole reason and the whole story behind it. However, this is the greatest increase and the greatest promise for study funding over ten years. The last time it was such a big promise, it was actually also with a bourgeois government. It is true that the budget settlement parties in Stortinget did not agree that they would have 11 months of study support from 2015, as it was within the budget. That's what the majority of the Biggest has decided now. But what we also agreed on was going through the financial situation for the students and looking at both the increase in the monthly amount and the length. These are good arguments that you should be able to increase your length slightly. For example, with the Quality Reform, several students received the exam later in the year. If an eleven-month plan is the right one, I'm a little bit more unsure, because if you were to literally interpret it, it would mean that you got a payment from June 15th to July 15th, and in July, very few people have an exam. It is also the case – with today’s legislation – that if you have a study year longer than 10 months, you have an opportunity to apply for study support for a longer period of time, so you can increase your study support. But we'll come back with this as soon as we can, and we've already started dialogue, among other things. with student organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e388	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response so far. I'm glad that the Council of State says that you want to do this work a little quickly, and it's important enough for a student to get the student support up as such, but it's not important to increase the length. As the Council of State also had in mind, there has been a development in the situation of the students when it comes to exams etc. What I'm concerned about is that we don't do the same thing as the previous government -- that is, we talk all the way about increasing the length of the study support, but we don't put it in until the end, and then we're really as far as we are today. So the Council of State is already willing to start to increase the length of the study aid right now – if you don't say eleven months, you say ten months and one week, ten months and two weeks, etc. – the start of a phase in the increase in the length of the aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e395	We will come back to the specific arrangement in the annual budgets, and I do not dare now to make any real promises. The starting point is the government platform. It says that study aid should be increased by more than price increases – up towards wage increases. I think that's a reasonable starting point. So there are fore and counter-arguments against using any future increase in length. If the purpose is e.g. The fact that students are going to have greater financial space and have to work a little less is a little difficult to understand that having the same payment as today, just for a longer period, is the most important thing instead of lifting the other ten months. But I have a pragmatic relationship with it. Whether you use a possible increase, which we'll then come back to in future budgets, to escalate the length or increase the payments in the ten months, I have a pragmatic relationship with, and I'm more than happy to have a dialogue with the Left about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e400	It opens for five follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e403	Yes, there is a danger that the Council of State will have to do this in dialogue with the Left, and then I really have a very simple question based on the answers given by the Council of State to Nybø: If the Left manages to get through the budget negotiations for 11 months of study support, will the Council of State oppose this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e408	The question is: if the Left would potentially get through on a later budget, would the Council be against it? I am absolutely sure that the representative Skei Grande as party leader has occasionally been confronted with speculations about eventualities. Then we politicians have a very good answer to that, and that's that kind of speculation we don't do. I'm sure the party leader in the left sometimes has answered that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e415	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e418	I think it is rather daring that the Minister of Knowledge shows that the previous study initiative took place under a civil government, because it happened in the autumn of 2001. Then the Stoltenberg I government proposed NOK 10000 in increased scholarships. The new Bondevik government went against – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left voted against in the Stortinget. It was the red-green parties together with the Progress Party that secured a majority for that promise – at that time also against the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. That's why my supplementary question goes to the Minister of Finance, because in a blog just before the elections, Tord Lien, who was then the educational spokesperson of the Advance Party, writes: ‘... increasing study aid by 10% would be self-financing even if the implementation rate increased only by one point from 42 to 43.’ And then he has an attack on then Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen when he writes: «... Sigbjørn Johnsen would like to argue against increased student support, but to say that it becomes too expensive they might as well end up with first and last.» Tord Lien is now in government. Will the Minister of Finance listen to the advice of Tord Lien regarding the study funding, or does she agree with the Minister of Knowledge that this is too expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e435	The Minister of Finance listens to a lot of advice from many sides when we make our budgets. I just want to repeat what the Minister of Knowledge just said, that in the state budget for next year, student support increases by – is it – 3.65 pst., which is a considerable rise after many years of standstill.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e441	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e444	We in the Christian People's Party are also concerned with the study support, both raising the total level and extending the study support to 11 months. We think it's a big challenge in itself that so many students have to work a lot besides to afford to study. But for some students, this challenge is even greater than for others – it concerns students with disabilities, it concerns students with child care – so in our programme we have said that we want to provide student support for 12 months to these student groups. So my question is whether the Council of State shares our view that these students have some special economic challenges, and whether we can expect to see a council that will work offensively to improve their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e451	Thank you for the question. The funding scheme for students with children is now improved in this budget. I know that the Christian People's Party has been pleased with that, and it's also very pleased with the government – it's a good policy. Once again, I just have to remind you that we have entered into a budgetary settlement on the Storting with the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's the budgetary agreement we're now dealing with as a majority on the Stortinget. In the case of possible return to e.g. Students who have disabilities, or students who are otherwise in a special situation, I am absolutely open to it. But what happens in the annual budgets must be done in the annual budgets. I think that is also about respect for the Storting, that you do it the usual way – you put out a budget, and then there are negotiations with the parties, which are the Christian People's Party and the Left. And then there is also an additional element that the Minister of Finance will depend on me if I had promised otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e462	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e465	Now we've heard that it's been unexplained by the red-green government that we didn't introduce 11 months of study support earlier, and it's late, but there's a majority in the Storting for this, we've heard. I would like to refer to the representative, Giske, who said it was being increased the last time in 2001. We have had a Bondevik II government in the meantime that did not even adjust prices – it only came under the red-green government. It's a shame we didn't do anything before – I can admit – we could have done it before, but there's no reason to be against it. I wonder why a government that is concerned with knowledge and rapid implementation says no to 11 months of study support, no matter how late it might be?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e472	The previous large increase in study support was effective from the 2003–2004 study year. Then I understand that the students are disappointed, but what I don't understand is that the opposition parties are so high and dark. Here we are talking about three parties that in 2005 all had in their programmes that they would carry out 11 months of study support. Then it was negotiated away in the negotiations, even though all three parties agreed. And then eight years went by when you couldn't do it. One thing is that you didn't put in place the promise that everyone had made before 2005, it went eight years when the students each year dropped backwards compared to Norwegian employees, and then you get in addition with a budget before going off, where the amount of the students in 2014 over the price increase was zero dollars – zero dollars was the greeting from the previous government to the students in 2014. This government has a different policy – we have increased study support in 2014 by more than in any other year when the red-greens crashed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e477	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e480	Neither the Minister of Knowledge nor this representative is particularly tall and dark – we are both dark. In this case, I see no reason why the Minister of Knowledge should be tall and dark. In the years they were in government, from the study support. Then it becomes too stupid that the Christian People's Party and the Left, when only a few hours ago they voted against the increase of the scholarship to 11 months, today make themselves tall and dark as speakers for better student support. There's a strange custom here. It has been conducted a series of studies – in 2010, 2011 and ended in December 2012 studies on living conditions for students. What does the minister think he does not know, as these investigations have not revealed, and which he intends to find out?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e487	The President would like to point out that it is not Parliament's curfew to refer to playoffs in this Chamber as stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e490	It is a fact — and this can be checked by anyone — that the previous large increase in study support came in the 2003–2004 study year. It's indisputable. Then the price adjustment came in 2006, if I don't remember faults, and that's fine in itself, but that means that every year under the red-green students got a price adjustment, but slowly compared to the employees. I agree with the SSB, I understand that the students want better student funding, so we have improved the study funding in 2014 more than any other year under the red-green. The question is: When the previous government received these SSB figures in 2010, 2011 and 2012, why didn't that government increase the study aid slightly – zero dollars each year – in addition to a price adjustment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e495	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e499	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Last week it was found that 200 patients have waited nearly a year for a neck operation at the Rikshospitalet, and the hospital itself says that this is irresponsible treatment. When the NRK examined the matter before the weekend, it turned out that the waiting time for surgery after a neck spat is much shorter in public hospitals other than that in Oslo. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health had a message at Dagsrevyen on Thursday which was, he is going to make a privatisation reform – a so-called free treatment choice – once in the future. There was not one word about unused public capacity, not one measure to make patients aware of that possibility. In the context of the budget, the Stortinget decided to spend 45 million. NOK to purchase MR studies. There was a consensus about this room last night. But we separated on one point, that is, the designation that the Minister of Health and the majority wanted for private radiological activities. I also raised this issue with the Minister of Health in the debate yesterday. When SV asked the Minister of Finance about the budgetary procedure, we were told that the government had not examined whether there was any available capacity to perform similar tasks in the public sector, which might also be able to use this money. Of course, this type of allocation should be granted with a single lead: the most effective use for patients’ joy — not with an ideological approach to strengthening the commercial sector in any case. We need a pragmatic approach to the best possible treatment for the money. It is important to combat hypersensitivity and allergic reactions. Could the Minister for Health be developing public allergy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e512	I can assure the representative that neither the Council of State nor the government has done so. The state budget now adopted represents the largest budgeted growth in public hospitals ever adopted in the United Kingdom. This means that public hospitals will have a better opportunity to care for what public hospitals, and only public hospitals, are to care for, namely all emergency treatment in Norway, which is over 70pst. of the treatment of patients in the specialist healthcare system. In addition, they should be better equipped to carry out two other important tasks for which public hospitals have a primary responsibility, namely research and education, which are also important tasks. But then this government believes that it is completely unnecessary to leave the free capacity of private people available when people are in line and waiting for treatment that they have the right to. Therefore, we plan to introduce free treatment options, which means that patients entitled to treatment can also use this capacity in private. With regard to the issue of MR, a large proportion of MR studies for patients are already conducted in private. Privates have free capacity. It's a long wait for the public. As I replied to the representative yesterday, patients have reported how this is happening, namely that one is referred to the private X-ray institute because there is a long waiting time in the public sector. In private you are also told that you have to wait a long time, unless you are willing to pay yourself. Then one can come in within a few days. We believe that this leads to social inequality. That is why we are now giving priority to buying free capacity from private people quickly, so that patients do not have to wait unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e525	No one believes that the available capacity should be available. We are all opposed to using available capacity. That is why it is so strange that the Minister of Health has not examined the possible availability of MR available in the public health sector, in order to allocate funds to health businesses so that they can use them as efficiently as possible. In the budget that the majority adopted yesterday, there are zero dollars more to public hospitals than it was in the red-green budget. It's just more money for private. The strange thing is that it looks as if the Minister of Health is based on an assumption that there is no available capacity in the public sector and not on his own studies. I think that is critical. We are at risk that the future free treatment option will become a sleeping cushion, which means that the Minister of Health does not do a sufficiently good job of looking at available public capacity. Does the Minister of Health have measures in relation to, for example: strengthening the free choice of hospitals and information on them, which may improve the information available to patients on the available capacity of the public health system today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e534	In 2002, the average waiting time in the specialist healthcare service was 90 days. After four years of civil government, one of which had taken greater advantage of private use, the average waiting time was 70 days. In 2010, the average waiting time was 78 days. We believe that a main reason why the waiting time increased immediately after the red-greens took over the responsibility was that they ordered the public health service first to use its own free capacity, and then, if necessary, to buy from private people. This meant that the flexibility of patients was reduced. It became less possible to choose to use the available capacity. That's what we're now turning around. We get a new policy that hopefully leads to a reduction in waiting time – we get down unnecessary waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e541	It opens up three follow-up questions – first Johnny Ingebrichtsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e544	Anyone who follows health policy at present sees that what has been clear promises in the past has now become vague formulations and very long-term objectives. Free treatment is one of these issues that is now just muttering about, more than it's talked about. What is the timetable for introducing free treatment options, and because of the postponement now coming, that the Minister of Health has realised that the public cannot afford to lose all the nurses, health professionals and doctors who will go to the commercial clinics if there is a free choice of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e551	I must be sorry if my previous post and post before it was perceived as mumbling. It may be due to dialectical differences. But I said very clearly that this government should introduce free treatment choices. We will use the free capacity of the private sector. We'll start with that already in the next state budget. Then I am a little uncertain about what the representative means when he says we have gone from our timetable for introducing free treatment choices. On the contrary – we are in the process of making the changes needed to implement this scheme: to prepare both the legal and the financial changes that are needed. But we can't wait for it. That is why we have already spent more money in the State budget for 2014 to achieve some of the same effect – using the available capacity that is available to private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e558	Torgeir Mikalsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e561	First to the story of the Minister of Health. In terms of private use under the previous government, it increased sharply. We have always had a pragmatic relationship with this – not an ideological one. But we first and foremost rusted up the public hospitals, which meant that 1.6 million more investigations and treatments were carried out during our reign. That is why we are asking Minister of Health Bent Höie questions now when they have made their supplementary budget that was adopted last night. I wonder what has happened around the government's table when they were going to make a budget. Here they've taken the chance to spend 4 billion. kr more oil money. They've found room to cut taxes and taxes by $8,000 million. However, Minister of Health Bent Höie has not been able to obtain a single additional crown for increased treatment capacity in public hospitals, where the large scale of treatment takes place. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e570	Yesterday, the Stortinget adopted a budget that represents a 2.7-billion-billion-dollar increase in specialist health services. kr in relation to the level in 2013. It represents the largest budgeted growth in specialist health services ever. We are increasing more than what the red-greens did in the treatment of specialist healthcare, especially those patients who have been at the bottom of the table for too long now – people with drug problems, people with mental disorders, those who are chronically ill, who need rehabilitation. What was the big warning from the Workers' Party before the elections was that it was not possible to implement reductions in taxes and taxes without having to cut welfare. Well, now we have the fasit. This government is able to implement our promises to cut taxes and taxes that hinder growth and at the same time strengthen well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e577	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e581	In medicine, there's something called tentative diagnosis, i.e. work diagnosis until the opposite is proven. I agree with the representative Lysbakken that the government probably enjoys public allergy. Forty-five million. kr is allocated to private MR, although two-thirds are already privately owned and only one-third in the public sector. Undertakings will be refused to increase public capacity next year. In Hordaland we have two hospitals that have MR machine, Stord and Voss. So the Minister of Health will refuse to increase his capacity. My question is, how is it to be a minister of health who then actively opposes a strengthening of the public health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e590	There is no basis for this question. We do not in any way refuse the public hospitals to use the potential available capacity they have at MR – on the contrary, we have budgeted with a record increase in public hospitals, specifically targeting both outpatient studies, treatment and radiology. So there's a significant growth in this area in public hospitals as well. In addition, we want to use the considerable spare capacity that is available in private, because a lot of patients today experience that they need to have an MR study before they get into a specialist to get further studies. The waiting time that they must then have is perceived as completely unreasonable, especially given that they are told to pay them from their own pocket, they can enter within a short time. I thought the Center Party, like us, was concerned with balancing the social differences in health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e597	I give the word to the councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen for a correction before we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e600	I was injured to say a wrong year before, and it was in the discussion about the increase in student support in connection with the Quality Reform. It was under the Bondevik II government, but it was in 2002–2003, not in 2003–2004, as I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e605	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e608	The question is for the Minister of Health. The representative Lysbakken mentioned at the NRK a few days ago the matter of very long waiting time at the neurosurgery department at Oslo University Hospital, and according to the NRK, over 200 patients have been waiting for more than one year. Many have paid for expensive operations in the private market instead of waiting. Unfortunately, this is not a whole new issue. A number of measures were therefore taken under former State Councillor Jonas Gahr Støre, among others. a separate review of the OUS by external professionals from Scandinavia, better planning for operations in the evening, a review of the operational programmes to ensure the progress and reduction of the number of cancelled operations and a better operating room distribution – and a new emergency building is now at Ullevål. It is obvious that those who are closest to solving these problems are Oslo University Hospital and the management there. However, it is essential that the State Council, which is the top level of responsibility, provides framework conditions and solutions. Very familiar are the same neurosurgeons who work both at Oslo University Hospital in the daytime and at private clinics in the evening. So we have a situation where patients who have to wait a long time because there is not enough capacity in a department that obviously does not work well enough can get operations done in the evening for payment. It's a completely absurd situation. The answer, when Bent Höie as Minister of Health is confronted with this, is among other things. free choice of treatment, i.e. increased use of employees in a public hospital in a department that is obviously not functioning, to an even greater extent in the evening. Why does Bent Höie not agree with the Workers' Party that a proper arrangement is needed here to increase the treatment capacity of the public hospital where these doctors are actually employed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e617	I fully agree that the offer at Oslo University Hospital must be improved. That's why we've budgeted for a record increase in hospitals' budgets. That's also why I have assured myself that much of the work is done at Oslo University Hospital when, among other things. improve the capacity of the neurosurgical department, be closely monitored. This has been a recurring matter for a long time, so I am not particularly impressed by the implementation power of the previous government in this area. When the representative mentions that these surgeons work at home in the evening, I expect that there was no problem that arose after the election. In fact, there is a situation that is well known in the Norwegian health system. I mean, it's not a clue that people who want to work more have the opportunity to do it, as long as it's done under neat conditions. But I think it is a problem that many patients cannot afford to use this capacity, and that they need to take more and more private health insurance or pay from their own pocket. That's why we need to both strengthen the public health system, get better organisation there, and strengthen patients' rights, so that patients can use free treatment choices regardless of the thickness of the wallet, which they have depended on under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e624	I agree that it is completely unreasonable for patients who have injuries, who need help quickly, to have to pay out of their own pocket because it obviously does not work well enough and is large enough capacity at that department or hospital that is set to do just this. But that's what's happening here now. Now Bent Höie is the Minister of Health, and so we have another situation with a department that obviously doesn't work, where doctors who are employed in public hospitals, where the chief in charge of this hospital and these doctors are the Minister of Health, have long waiting lists, but at the same time operate private practice in the evening, where the patients who can afford can come and get surgery for payment. Why does the Minister of Health not think that more should be done to ensure that the so-called available capacity should be put into use in public hospitals, so that everyone can participate, instead of adding up to further private use?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e631	As I said, the situation at the OUS neurosurgical department has been known for several years, and I am not impressed by the implementation of the previous government in terms of the measures that could have been taken to improve capacity. Then I fully agree with the previous Minister of Health's ambition to increase the opening hours of public hospitals. It's going to be repeated as a mission for next year. But I really disagree if the Workers' Party now, unlike what they've been thinking for eight years, will forbid doctors who work in public hospitals to work privately next door. I think that would mean a rather dramatic reduction in the overall treatment capacity. But I fully agree that as far as possible we should strive for these to be given the opportunity to take advantage of their working time in the public hospitals, and I will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e638	There will be three follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e641	First, let me say that I am glad that the Minister of Education corrected himself from an undisputed fact that it was introduced in 2003–04, that it was forced through the opposition, against the right vote, in 2002–2003. Then to the Minister of Health. During the previous government, the number of treatments and consultations increased by 1.6 million. We have an ambition on the part of the Workers' Party to increase this by another 1 million in the current ageing period. After our calculations, it'll cost about 12 billion. kr if we're going to get everything in health care, and that's what's important: how patients are being followed up. That requires resources. My questions are very simple: Will the Right stand by the promise they made in the election campaign to increase the health budget by 12 billion. kr during this period? And will they, as Torgeir Micaelsen asked, spend the money on the public free health service that applies to everyone, or will they continue to earmark the money for private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e651	We are going to increase the treatment capacity of public hospitals in the years to come — just as the budget adopted by the majority of people yesterday represents the largest budgeted growth in public hospitals ever. I think that's important. Not least, we are going to establish a national health and hospital plan that gives us a better opportunity in Stortinget, when we discuss the budgets, to have a comprehensive overview of both patient treatment needs and, in the case of buildings and equipment, which have other challenges related to capacity, for which I have not heard that the Workers' Party has been so concerned. Now we're adding up to a budget for 2014 which is closer to the goal of 12 billion. kr, except as provided by the outgoing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e658	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e661	Good rental is the basis for effective hospital operations and good patient care. I am made aware that Oslo University Hospital has five levels of leadership under the Managing Director. In the past, it was found that only 18 out of 59 somatic wards at Oslo University Hospital had a leader who was present in the environment daily. A superior has written to me and describes the situation as follows: ‘Between the individual health worker and the renting team, there are ten teams of Glava who make all communication with people who have real power in the system very difficult. It's also a big problem that all the leaders of the system are recruited from the idea that one has to show loyalty up in the system." Does the Council of State see the problem of missing local government at Oslo University Hospital, and when will the Council of State secure urban rental at all departments of Oslo University Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e671	The President may have thought the question was a little bit on the side of the main question, but Councillor Höie would like to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e674	I'm very happy to be able to answer this question, because this is a question that I, like the representative Toppe, have had and have a strong commitment to. That's why these were the first questions I raised after I had become Minister of Health: How does Oslo University Hospital work to ensure that there is local management, that everyone working at Oslo University Hospital knows who its closest manager is and can get in touch with him quickly? That's where the management of Oslo University Hospital admits they haven't come far enough. That is why they have also assured me that they are now strengthening and intensifying their efforts to achieve that objective. It's one of the themes I've had at the repeated meetings I've had with Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital. It must be that when a worker in a knowledge organisation such as a hospital is, a person must know who is his nearest manager and be able to contact him quickly. But then it will necessarily mean that there will be many leaders at Oslo University Hospital, and that there may be several levels of leadership, so I don't think there was a whole connection in the problem that the representative raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e679	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e682	The main theme of this round of questions has been the challenges and problems of Oslo University Hospital, and one of the things we could read in the newspaper yesterday, in the evening post, is that there are large class divisions, not only in the health care system in general, but also in view of the call-out capacity and the call-out offer to the locals here in Oslo. Here in Oslo you have a target achievement of 12 minutes response time. In the center gets over 90 pst. met, and 60-90 pst. this is achieved on the west edge, while on the east edge of Oslo and north and south of the city it is less than 60 pst. which is achieved during the response time requirement. I think this is unacceptable. This is unacceptable because everyone has to get equal offers. It's about minutes. It's about seconds. My question to the Minister of Health is: What will the Minister of Health do to provide better and equivalent response time for all the citizens of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e687	The president may also think this question is a little bit on the side of the main question, but leaves it to Höie to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e690	Oslo University Hospital has set itself a goal of an internal response time that they are working to achieve. That's good. There one sees that there are challenges, but I'm a little uncertain if the representative believes that there should be a right to a certain response time across the country, because it will be impossible to achieve. I think it makes sense as the approach is today, that the different health regions and health businesses set themselves targets for a response time that they are working to achieve. If we introduce a national response time standard, which I also realized was against the previous government, it would not be able to deliver enough results, because Norway is a long-term country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e695	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e707	There are some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, will be taken up by the representative Marianne Aasen. Question 9, from the representative of Martin Henriksen to the Minister of Knowledge, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e722	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the European Minister: ‘The European investigation showed that there is a major lack of knowledge of the EEA Agreement, of the possibilities and rights granted to undertakings and residents by the Agreement. Next year, 20 years have passed since the agreement entered into force. Will the government take the initiative to use this small anniversary to create a knowledge-based commitment to the EEA Agreement, both in Norwegian society and in our countries of cooperation, where it is also important to ensure that Norway is a fully-fledged partner in the internal market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e736	I am pleased with the question, which points to an important challenge. It is important to keep the knowledge of the EEA up to date, because it is important to keep the EEA up to date. It is Norway that more than anyone else is dependent on this. The EEA is crucial for Norwegian business, jobs and well-being. National interests are weakened if the EEA principles are weakened. Norwegian business loses if it is regulated differently from EU business. We're assessing how to mark the 20th anniversary of the EEA. We assess knowledge measures towards businesses and other environments. But there is no need to sit and wait for the anniversary. Knowledge comes first through hard work. More active policy efforts with EU and EEA processes will create more public discussion and thus also greater interest in and knowledge of the importance of the EU to Norwegian society. Firstly, we want to have a more active discussion of Norwegian positions on important issues in Europe: Europe's place in a world where power – political and economic – is shifting, Europe's relations with its neighbourhood regions, climate and energy issues, the competitiveness challenge, population development and migration, to mention something. Secondly, we want to have consultations with key social actors in Norway on key EU processes at an earlier stage. Thirdly, we will have more open and previous dialogue with the Stortinget on the development of Norwegian positions on current EEA issues, including: through more active interaction with the EEA Committee. Fourthly, we will have increased efforts towards EU institutions and countries both to influence earlier in processes and to seek the necessary adaptations to EU regulations and directives. If we have our discussions here at home on important EEA issues while our neighbouring countries also have their own, and before voting in Brussels, it will help to increase both the attention and commitment to the EEA issues in Norway, and thus the knowledge. In addition, it will increase the knowledge among our European partners that we are a fully-fledged partner in the internal market, and that knowledge is important to increase. My ambition is to develop a team game in Europe policy, so that we can use the expertise that exists in large parts of Norwegian society, not least to increase knowledge of what opportunities, rights and challenges the EEA Agreement provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e759	I thank you for your answer. Many look at Europe’s policy and the EEA Agreement and very many of the other agreements Norway has which are linked to Europe’s cooperation, such as purely foreign policy. Of course it is, but it is also far more domestic policy than many believe and perceive. The agreements with the EU cover almost all areas of society, it concerns all departments, it concerns all committees in the Stortinget, and if we are to safeguard our interests related to all of this, it is very important that we have knowledge and understanding, and I am pleased that we agree on that. One question I would like to ask is: In what area does the Council of State think that the need is perhaps greatest in view of the whole of this great field in which Norway and Europe are so closely intertwined?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e766	Since EU and EEA cooperation affects almost all sectors of society in Norway, it is not so easy to say in which area the need for knowledge is greatest. But what we have to do is naturally to define areas where we have the most interests, and where we have the most interests, we probably have the most knowledge. The government has signaled that the area of climate and energy will be very important for Norway, and there it is important to mobilise the different environments in the Norwegian society that have knowledge. It is important to contribute to increasing knowledge of the wider Norwegian society about the importance of the EU in the field of climate and energy, not least because energy is such an important field for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e771	Once again I thank you for the answer. The European investigation states: ‘There are not many other areas of Norwegian democracy in modern times where so many have known so little about as much as in European policy.’ One points to two factors that explain it. One is Norway's special form of association with very weak democratic participation. The second is the underlying disagreement about EU membership, which seems demobilizing about any question and open debate about all of these issues, which could be seen in greater detail in the public sphere. I wonder what the European Minister is thinking about this issue, and what he wants to do about this particular issue. Even now that I have written on Facebook that I am going to address this question, the answers on what people themselves thought about the EU case and membership are coming right away. It puts a lid on the debate. How are we going to be able to get rid of that lure, push it away, so that we can get an open debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e783	I think it is important to look at the European debate not as a membership debate. It's too important a topic. It is in many ways a paradox that the organisation that affects Norway the most lacks formal means of influence, but it demands us all the more to exploit the informal possibilities of influence. It is important to develop teamwork and try to raise the debate on the important issues completely independently of the traditional "yes" and "no" lines of membership issues. The EU affects us in all areas of society. We must have a European debate in all areas of society, and there must be a debate that is not about membership but about promoting Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e792	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Corridor 3, Oslo – Kristiansand – Stavanger is the route with the highest market potential for the development of a forward-looking and modern rail solution according to the high-speed investigation. The range will be confused if there are no significant improvements to the route offer. The NSB has assessed the income potential of the route change as large. Can the Council of State promise that during 2014 a 2-hour offer will be introduced on the route according to the region for a longer period of time requested?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e801	Thank you for taking up a good question. High frequency — or at least good frequency and predictable frequency — is important to make people travel collectively. I also look at the railways as part of the collective solutions. Two hours of frequency on the southern runway would have been a reality today if not the red-green government had said no to the timetable that the NSB itself wanted. So it was a political revolution that didn't make it happen. It is possible to make changes to it, of course, and a new government is working on that matter, but it will not be possible to get it into the schedule for 2014. The train has already passed in terms of timeframes. But we are working on that matter in relation to 2015. Then we look at how we think passenger development is going if we get increased frequency, as the representative wants, and for which I have great sympathy, and what that will mean for travelers with night eyes today. Therefore, it is important to consider how a person can improve the use of the material provided by the NSB on the Bergensbanen e.g., and what that will mean for travellers on the Sørlandsbanen. A little bit of what makes you want to look at this, too, is that night and night have a different type of material to that of day trips. This means that if you are going to have a night train on a journey with relatively few travelers, you have a relatively poor disposal of the material. It also makes the whole organization more complicated. So the government is working on this. We're in good contact with the NSB. The purpose is to increase the frequency to Kristiansand on the South Railway, which stops there, precisely because we think it makes more people choose to travel there, both because the trains go more often, and because there is a more predictable timetable, which makes it interesting to take that trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e814	I thank you for your answer. I perceive the answer so that in addition to the fact that there is an assessment going on, the Council of State is also positive in getting this done. When we take this up, it's because there's been a very strong regional demand from the states from West Agder to Buskerud. Stiff routes are about the long-haul, but it's also about commuter traffic. It's just about being able to use the railway as an important collective vehicle in the region. The commuter associations call for offers, and the NSB says they can get it if they get the order from the department. In order to quote from the Sundvolden Declaration, as the Council of State knows well, it is precisely underlined that the railway “must be a competitive alternative” and that there is a need to do something about its availability. I hope that the Council of State can do something about this, and then my question is: If you can't do it in 2014, can one then expect this to be in place in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e823	This is a round that goes every year. It is also the case that the railway routes are laid out once a year. The reason why it may be complicated to change them once they have been laid down is that they are also connected to train connections abroad. If a change is made on the Norwegian routes, there will be international consequences. That's what complicates it. Therefore, it is desirable not to make small changes all the way. But in this context, there is a deadline by 1 June of each year. The Southern states have previously submitted their wish, and I guess it will also happen this time. It is my ambition that one should get a higher frequency to Kristiansand. In this way, it is my ambition to work for what the representative wants. Then we have to look at this in relation to material disposal and what is available. There we get reports from the NSB system during January, as far as I'm aware, and then we'll be able to go further and become more committed to it. But the ambition I share, and I'll do my best to get it fulfilled. So this was a political decision by the previous government that would not have it like that. We want to have it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e830	I thank you for your answer. Then I see that here's a process, and that we have reason to have great expectations. If the Council of State has to choose between a sleeping car and a two-hour frequency, what kind of priorities will the Council of State take into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e837	What we generally use in transport policy is that one should look at what benefits most people, that is, what benefits most both in commuter traffic and for business and freight transport. It'll be in a whole we see it. If the night train cover, i.e. in the sleeping area, on the track from Stavanger to Oslo is very low, but you can get significant growth in the number of travelers in the daytime with the Sørlandsbanen, it will be very heavy for you to choose to prioritize the day service. I think the numbers will show that too. So even though I'm rogalending, I think we'll see where we get the most benefit for the whole South-West, and then actually day commuters are much more important than the few who travel by night.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e846	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘In the course of the year’s hunt for bear, the killing of 18 bears was authorised. At the end of the license hunt, the result was that 2 of the 18 bears were killed. In the fight against wild game, point (c) of the resolution. 2.2.4 states: ‘In cases where licensing fails to provide satisfactory clearance, the environmental management shall, as far as possible, ensure that the remaining allowances are withdrawn.’;» Does the Council agree that the licence hunt has not produced satisfactory results, and what will she do to follow up the robberies settlement at this point?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e855	It is true, as the representative says, that this year's license agreement resulted in two bears being killed in the fall. In addition, during the summer, two individuals were shot at injury. As a result, there are a total of four bears in Norway this year. It is an objective that licensing should be the main instrument in the stock management of the bear. Consequently, training and empowerment measures aimed at increasing the achievement of the objectives of licensing are central to the follow-up to the robberies agreement. As the representative says, as far as possible, the environmental management shall ensure that the remaining quota is withdrawn where the surrender of a licence does not give a satisfactory settlement, as indicated in the robberies agreement. This shall be done within the framework of the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the details of the operation of the Stortingeet in paragraph 2.2.18 of the paper game agreement that exceptional withdrawals from the bear after the end of the licensing period may be permitted in individual cases where there is a likelihood of concrete damage to domestic animals or domestic animals. At the end of the licensing period, the Directorate-General for the Environment shall, after discussion with the predators, make an area-specific assessment and prioritisation for exceptional withdrawals from the bear. This is also in line with the Robbery Agreement, where it appears that the Directorate has the power to take decisions on how and how to initiate exceptional withdrawals. When assessing whether exceptional withdrawals are to be made, it shall, inter alia: emphasis is placed on the extent of damage and the number of bears that have fallen in the current year, the preventive measures taken and the consideration of the stock target. In some priority pastures, the extent of the damage caused by bears has been higher this year compared to the last few years. I am therefore aware of the need to assess exceptional withdrawals of bears in some priority pastures after the end of the licensing period. In this respect, I record that the Environment Directorate said on 13 November that they would consider opening exceptional bear harvesting in priority pastures for spring. Finally, I will refer to the knowledge that shows that male bears can go far in a short time. This does not necessarily mean that the number of bears on which a licence was granted in August is equal to the number of bears actually in priority pastures now. Both weather and tracking conditions and fresh bear registrations in priority grazing areas will therefore have a significant impact on the extent of exceptional withdrawals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e868	I thank you for your answer. I think it's important when dealing with the looting game deal, that the license hunt actually becomes the main instrument for taking out the bear, because there's no doubt that after the looting game agreement point 2.2.9, the license hunt is the main instrument. If you don't get those bears that decide that you should trap, that means that it's easy to get a billet that gives negative consequences especially for those who have pasturage interests in the areas. I see that one adds that one to the spring can consider felling bears in the affected pastures. I think it's positive, but at the same time it's important that it happens to such an extent that it actually corresponds to the goal that license hunting is the main means of taking out bears, and that we don't get one or two bears and we're left with a total withdrawal that's still well below 20 pst. of the particular case to be licensed during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e877	The extent of harm caused by the bear in some priority pastures has been higher this year compared to the last few years. In particular, this applies to Uppland and the Trøndelagsfolken. That is why the Environment Directorate has signalled that exceptional withdrawals of bears in priority pastures will be assessed for spring. I want to focus on having as effective abstinence as possible, but of course within the framework of the predatory game agreement and the nature diversity law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e884	When you look at what can be done in the framework of the predatory game deal, I also think it is important that you look at what measures you can take to make the license hunt in the harvest more effective than it is today. In this context, I ask the Council of State to consider both the issue of extending the hunting period in line with the other Nordic countries, i.e. from 15 October and from October, and to remove pointless rules on the time within which the hunt is to be completed, at 1 p.m. 15 in the afternoon, and also to allow hunting for snow during the fall. Is the Council of State committed to taking these issues with it in order to get a more effective licence hunt in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e891	It is difficult to meet the two-part objective of having large predators and a sustainable grazing industry in Norway; it is a difficult balancing process. However, I take the input from the representative with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e900	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Private medical X-ray activity in Norway is driven by an increasing number of legal units. The association of the X-ray institutes' three members accounts for about 90 p.m. of the publicly funded image services in Norway. Will the Council of State change its supply legislation to help bring up several legal units of the private X-ray institute that can secure long-term, real-life competition and a qualitatively good and decentralised supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e909	I have a great deal of understanding for the representative Toppe's concern that monopolistic situations should arise in the radiology market, and that this could give the population a poorer offer. But fortunately we haven't come that far. First, for the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that questions relating to changes in the rules of public procurement lie with the Minister of Industry. Having said that, I believe that the issues raised by the representative are of a more professional nature than procurement law. This means that it is important to keep an eye on future market developments in the planning of an acquisition and to reflect on the competitive situation prior to the disclosure of competition. There are no legal barriers for purchasers to split volumes into smaller parts. Nor is there any obstacle to requiring accessibility in geographically defined areas or to imposing quality requirements on services. Transferred to the representative Toppe's question, for example: to avoid a monopoly situation at the time of the next acquisition by setting a ceiling on the volume at which individual operators can obtain contracts. I expect regional health companies to be aware of these issues in their acquisition of radiology services. Provider-side restructuring is, of course, a matter for which regional health businesses, for which purchasers, must be vigilant. I believe that the restructuring has positive aspects for the overall service provision. Prices have fallen, while the quality of services for the population has improved and improved. The question of market developments through restructuring, buying-in, etc. is, of course, also a theme for Competition Surveillance when assessing concentrations. I expect regional health companies, such as professional purchasers, to have a conscious and active view of the issues that the representative Toppe is dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e926	First, I want to thank you for the answer. I mean, this isn't just about a purchasing position, it also has to do with the patient supply. We know that in 2012, the private X-ray institute examined 600,000 patients, two-thirds of all MR studies, so that's not a small offer. I am also concerned when there are only three major actors in Norway as a whole. We also know that the government has granted 45 million to the private, which will then go to these three companies. I'm going to believe that Right agrees with me that what might be worse than a public monopoly must be a private health monopoly. Can the Council of State say that there are several real providers of radiographic services in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e937	Now I am no expert in competition, fortunately we have a competition authority that assesses, but I agree with the representative Toppe that to fewer players there are, of course, there is a monopoly situation. And a monopoly situation in this area, with private monopolists, will not be a good situation to come into. I was also concerned about this issue as a staging representative. Then, in an interpellation debate in November 2010, I raised with the Minister for Health Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen the challenges associated with the offer in Health South-East on radiology, which I thought could lead to the kind of effect that the representative Toppe is having. In the light of this, the tender was cancelled and the previous Minister for Health launched an evaluation of the tendering procedures in enterprises, precisely in order to obtain a more conscious purchasing policy in the health regions. That is what I am concerned about still being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e944	I have been told that Health House Kongsberg is one example of a local private radiographic company – it affects the Kongsberg region, Numedal, the Middle State in the West Viken etc. – which has lost an offer for the benefit of the big ones on the market. I believe that the Minister of Health is concerned that the offer must enable us to have a decentralised offer, and that one can split up in different ways in the supply regulations. But it is also the case that Health South-East is creating this code of supply. My question is whether the Minister of Health will go in and instruct Health South East to look at this, and to get offers that focus on accessibility, which can ensure more small service providers also in the bidding round.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e953	In the tendering rounds relating to radiology, three conditions are used. It's price, it's quality, and it's availability. So this is already in the bids. What was a problem was that one actually decided to make a standard of quality that made the most satisfied quality. Then made a standard of availability that made most people approved for availability, and thus one again stood with only price as an instrument. When one then had no volume limitation for the individual actor, one contributed to ruining the competitive situation. That was precisely the evaluation I took the initiative to show. Therefore, it is extremely important, as the representative points out, that regional health businesses have a procurement policy, a awareness that they are a major buyer in this area, so that they do not face a situation in which they have to deal at some point with a private monopolist. I'm going to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e966	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: «Inside. S. No 169 provided the Storting House with the main objective of preventing young people under the age of 18 from being sent to prison, to set up youth centres for those for whom society needs protection. [[2008-2009]] First of all, there was to be one in Bergen and one in Oslo. Unfortunately, it is not yet established in Oslo, but in the first half of the year there were some concrete alternatives to localisation in municipalities in the eastern part of the country. When will the Council of State decide on the location and construction of this youth unit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e975	The red-green government, led by the party representing the representative of Bohemia, did not in its 417 weeks be able to establish youth places, in addition to two youth places in Bergen that meet the requirements, and two that do not meet the requirements. I recognise that the Right-Fremskritsparti government has not been able to establish such youth places in the Eastern region during the six weeks we have been in government. As the representative knows, I am busy putting in such youth places as soon as possible, but unfortunately the government of Bohemia has been so little concerned about this that there are no potter projects that can be carried out in a very short time. I understand that the representative, Mr Bøhler, now has great expectations that we have received a new government with an executive role. I agree. It is good to be impatient, although I had hoped that this impatience had also been present when the Workers' Party itself put 417 weeks in government. It creates some challenges with the credibility of some of the Workers' Party's representatives that this impatience has developed very strongly over the past six weeks. But then I know that representative Bohemia's commitment in this area is very real. It is an engagement shared by the representative and the Council of State. In order to contribute to very strong clarity in this – because I have recorded in the media that Bøhler believes that the Council of State has been unclear about the establishment of youth places in the Eastern region – I would say that this government has a great deal of pressure to deliver youth places in the Eastern region as quickly as possible, and in a much shorter time than the previous government has been able – or, to say the least, failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e988	Thanks for the answer. I wish we could also discuss issues that are under work, and in which we want progress, without suggesting that I criticise that it has not been fast enough progress once the Council of State has sat so short. We have to be able to take care of things, move on. I can definitely report that my impatience has been present to the greatest extent in the previous period in this case, so this is a question I have tried to push for a long time. My concern leaped out of the wording of articles and the Minister of Justice came up with questions about this youth unit, where he writes that he will ‘examine the possibilities of establishing youth places in the East to get young people out of circulation immediately’. What I'm familiar with is that there were four alternatives to localization in different municipalities in the eastern region at the hearing now on the summer, with a deadline this summer. So what I'm excited about, the process is further linked to taking a stand for the localization options and a construction project. I have not indicated any criticism that you have been evasive here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e999	I am pleased with that clarification of the lack of criticism. This Council of State would like to accept criticism, but it is very good that the representative also makes it clear that impatience has been there over time. I think it's a pity we haven't come any further than what we've done. The four options that have been consulted are part of the picture we are now looking at to see which projects can be implemented as quickly as possible. I am not prepared to give any date for when this may be completed. The challenge with some of the four locations has been that one then not get it in time. We have to look at this in a whole way to solve the challenge that I think is quite acute. We need to get these youth places quickly in place. We have full pressure to get it done, without which I can give a concrete date for when it will be resolved. But I can assure the representative that it is a powerful government that has now taken over the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1006	Thank you for that answer too. In the wave we now see, and which is much discussed in the media, we learn that immediate reactions are important. Unfortunately, there are also people between the age of 18 and those who are criminals who need to get out of the environments in which they operate, because there is a great risk of recurrence. Society needs protection, and the victims need respect. They also need to feel that the situation does not get upsetting to them by the fact that those who have done rough work are quickly out on the street again. There has been a very high threshold now to get through cases where prisoning of them in that age group is necessary. You had to go to the Supreme Court now with a case from the Stovner Police Station, where they received assistance. My final question is: is there now a separate area within the eastern part of the country, Oslo Police District, Oslo Prison, which is under the control of that group, where there is an organisation pending this youth unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1017	I want to answer that question in two rounds. One is that I agree that the threshold in the custody courts for children under 18 years of age seems to be high. There are some movements in the court's treatment of what I think is positive. I fully agree that it is important that people who commit serious crime should quickly feel on their bodies that that is what they have done, by getting them out of circulation. The second is that immediate action has been taken in Oslo prison to strengthen the offer of those under 18 who are still in prison, or are being held in custody. It's an offer that at least helps solve one of the acute challenges we face, but it doesn't really solve the problem, either in the short or long term. This is why it is essential that we be able to put youth places in the eastern region as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1028	‘The safety of agricultural food products in each country depends on the country’s overall plant production. Plant production is the result of agricultural land and crop level. [[inline and outline]] Do the Councils of State agree that less agricultural land and lower yield levels weaken the Norwegian food security of agricultural food?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1035	National food production from land and sea is an important basis for our food security, and plant production plays an important role. But at the same time, we import several important food products as well as input products and machines and equipment. Therefore, well-functioning trade systems, including international standards on plant and animal health, are also of great importance to our food safety in order to ensure that food is safe. I believe it would be wrong, as the representative Lundtägen does in the question, to link food security to Norwegian-produced agricultural food alone. We're in the lucky situation that we also have a large seafood sector. So, along with import opportunities, we have more sources of food supply for the population. The fact that we have more sources of food supply for the population reduces the risk of failure in one of the supply lines and thus increases food safety. An illustration of this is that Norwegian imports of food grain have been high in recent years — due to poor summers in Norway, which has given lower yields and poorer quality. The government wants Norwegian plant production to continue to play an important role in our food safety work. We want to set up the tools to contribute to increased production and through this work for the highest possible self-sufficiency of food, as we say in our policy platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1048	I thank you for the answer, which unfortunately was not an answer in relation to the professional precision that the question gave. My question was related to agricultural food. I am fully aware that we also eat fish, but agricultural food was the question. Furthermore, the question concerned the agricultural food produced in Norwegian plant products. Either humans eat the plants directly or the animals eat them, and then humans eat the animals, the plants are the basis for food safety. I understand that the Council of State does not agree with the question I asked, or how it stands. I ask for an answer to the specific question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1057	As I said, this is an important part of Norwegian food safety, but there are also other elements that are important. One of the things that is pointed out around the country when I'm traveling – at the latest yesterday I was in Lofoten – is that there's a big problem with land renting. An increasingly large part of what is produced is produced on tenure land. It's just that it's normal not to wash the rental car – you don't take care of what you don't own. Therefore, I believe that in order to improve the quality of the soil we have, we need to do something about the legislation, for example. as regards the de-allocation provisions of the Soil Law. It is important to take care of as much food as possible and at the same time look at the possibility that the soil that actually exists becomes of better quality. Then we have to do something about the structure of property relationships in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1064	This has nothing to do with the matter – excuse the obvious speech. My question was: do the Council of State agree that less agricultural land and lower yield levels weaken the Norwegian food security of agricultural products? The Government Platform states that ‘to work for the highest possible self-sufficiency in food for emergency reasons’ — the highest possible in relation to what? What is the reference? I have tried here to have a precise question about the area and the crops that give the quantity of plant production, and that there is a quantity of plant production that says something about the supply of agricultural food based on Norwegian feed – Norwegian food. Does the Council of State agree with that clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1075	In recent years, we have produced more agricultural products in Norway on a smaller area. For example, in the period 2005 to 2012, the area under vines and cereals in Norway has fallen by 370,000 deer – or 14 pst. This has been the case over a long period of time in which there will be fewer covers in active operation. That's why I am concerned about saying that we have to take care of the food soil as well as it can be done. Of course, we need to balance against the interests of the big society, but at the same time it is important to renovate the earth that is in operation and that today does not have the quality that it can have. Therefore, it is relevant to talk about decentralisation provisions and soil law. I travel around the country – I have been in many counties – and in all states they point out the same thing, namely that the high proportion of land rented is a challenge to get production up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1086	‘In recent years, the decline in cultivated land has declined. This is the result of conscious work in a number of areas to avoid the consumption of cultivated land. Conflicts between cultivated land and development purposes are particularly high in the vicinity of large cities. The government has now given a clear signal for the construction of nearly 1,000 targets of land cultivated near Trondheim. What signal does the Council of State think this gives about the value of cultivated land, and what is the government's ambition in soil protection policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1093	This government has clear ambitions for soil protection policy. We also have this programmed in our policy platform from Sundvolden: We want to take care of good food soil. We are concerned about preparedness and will work for the highest possible self-sufficiency. We have clear objectives to facilitate cost-effective food production, as well as societal needs. This suggests that each soil protection issue must be addressed separately because one has to balance with other societal needs. Therefore, the municipality plan for Trondheim is a challenging matter. There is no doubt that the earth we are talking about here is both great and good. However, as I see it, there will always be conflicts of objectives in land policy. Food soil protection must be balanced against the needs of the big society. In this difficult case, this is put to the head. This is a matter both for the Advance Party and for the Right before the election was clear that we wanted to give green light as to whether there was a government change. The voters have given a new government, and I therefore implement the Advance Party promised the voters in the election campaign. The government is occupied by the big cities as a driving force for development throughout the country. We want to facilitate the strengthening of metropolitan regions with investment in infrastructure, and we want to facilitate development where there is pressure. Trondheim is such a big city. Here, there is already a significant pressure for expansion. Housing prices have increased sharply in recent years. We have clearly stated in our political platform that in such areas we will facilitate development, and we will make it easier for the builders to build in line with the need. I also think that it's local you know your challenges best. In the Trondheims case, almost a collective municipal government is behind the municipal plan. I am also aware that Trondheim has worked well for a long time with fortification and transformation, among other things. of old industrial areas. In addition, the city has provided good facilities for public transport. This is good, and it is in line with professional recommendations. However, new housing in Trondheim will be difficult to achieve without coming into conflict with food land or with the land. The areas that the municipality is now planning to develop are building on the densification and further development of existing housing. I therefore believe that it is not right to review the municipality in this case. I have been very clear on signalling that this is not a blank mandate for Norwegian municipalities to build good food soil. Rather, on the contrary, I have made it clear that the municipalities need to improve their use of the land by building higher and denser. We are facing further population growth in Norway in the coming years, which means that the pressure on the food soil will continue. This makes it absolutely necessary to make better use of the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1124	It's still a little bit difficult to get completely clear of what concrete ambitions the government has in terms of soil protection, and the South-Trunde Team is a very good example, because it's right in the middle of the food barrel. It's the best food soil north of Dovre. They have already built up a lot of cultivated land in the southern Tributes – apart from Rogaland, they are at the top of the country. The councilman in Trondheim recommended a solution without degradation of food soil. The municipality already has a large land reserve, and they are now spending time with neighbouring municipalities, which have large regulated areas for non-cultivated housing. I think it's a bit serious that the minister responsible for food production is recommending the degradation of the food soil. Dwellings are important, but this food soil never comes back once it's built up. What does it say about the value of the food soil with the food minister's recommendation on this type of food soil, and what precedent can it create for other municipalities in densely populated areas that are also facing difficult balances in the construction of food soils?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1133	As I was in the past, I have been very clear that this is a matter that has been dealt with, and that does not give a blank authorisation to Norwegian municipalities to reduce the area and the food soil. But what I am concerned about and stress is that this is a matter on which we were clear before the election, and it is also a matter of 89 pst. By the city council in Trondheim is behind. They want to have a development in their city where they can offer more homes, because they have a population increase of 3 pst. Every year. It is that we must also take local democracy seriously. It's the Center Party that's very busy in many ways, and in some cases I think it's also right to give it the opportunity to develop one's own municipality further. That's why we thought it was right to give Trondheim the opportunity to develop these areas further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1140	Now, when the Council of State places so much emphasis on local and local democracy, it is natural to wonder whether she still believes it is important that there should be a national goal for soil protection policy, which both the Bondevik II government and the Red-Green government had. This is the basis for the most conscious work that has taken place in recent years, which has led to less developed land being built in 2012 than has been done in many years. It's tempting to ask about it, but I'd rather ask the Council of State what she didn't answer to Per Olaf Lundtigen, who is related to the exact same thing. Does the Council of State think that building down and reducing the number of deer crops in this country will weaken Norwegian food security?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1147	As I was in the past, there's no direct relationship between what we produce, and how many decaves we have. In the last few years, the area has fallen, and in the period 2005-2012 – i.e. when the Senterpartiet was in and out – there was a decrease of 450,000 dean, or 4 pst. Of these, 50,000 covered food soils were built up, and 400,000 deacons went out of operation. We've had that situation for many years. What I'm concerned about is that we're going to keep all the food we can. But at the same time, the big community will occasionally need a local development that means that we also need to listen to local politicians. This government has said very clearly in the platform we have, that soil protection is important, and that there is something we're going to take seriously in the future. But there always has to be a balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1158	‘The objective paragraph of the Training Act states that both the basic ball and the continuing training shall cooperate with the home. Research-based knowledge of parents’ significance for school performance gives good arguments that the school should work closely with parents in initial training. The government has opened a 7th step rating test. Will the Council of State allow parents to refuse to participate in a pilot scheme contrary to national school policy, if parents think it is the best thing for the child?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1165	Paragraphs 1 to 4 of the Training Act provide that municipalities and county councils may be allowed to derogate from the law and the corresponding regulations in connection with time-limited trials. If a municipality wishes to carry out such tests, the municipality must apply to the Directorate of Education for this purpose. It must then be stated in the application whether or not the school staff and other groups concerned support the application. The application shall also be discussed with teacher organisations, both at school and at local level. Information on local views will be some of the views taken into account by the Directorate of Education when considering whether or not to allow testing. Municipalities must ensure that parents and students are informed about the consequences of participating in trials. It has been possible on several occasions for individual students or their parents to refuse participation in previous trials. The requirement for parental consent before carrying out a test is one that must be considered in the context of the application procedure. In this context, it is important to stress that trials are never granted which may involve interference with individual life's fundamental rights and obligations. The representative believes that a 7th-year trial would run counter to national school policy. To this it is worth stressing that all tests under the Training Act § 1-4 imply that some of the provisions of the Training Act have been allowed to be waived for a certain period of time. In this way, it can be said that all attempts are contrary to the legislation and that this is precisely why there is a testing scheme. The aim of the pilot scheme has been to provide municipalities and county municipalities with the opportunity to test new educational and organisational solutions and thus facilitate school development. Well-implemented trials, followed by a thorough evaluation, will provide us with a better basis for assessing the desirability of amending the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1178	I am aware that municipalities can submit an application for permission to derogate from the training law. A condition when assessing the application is — in addition to the State Council — that there should be a reasonable reason to assume that the overall test could lead to a training that is better for students. The latest edition of the magazine Education refers to national and international researchers, where six out of eight think characters are negative for learning and motivation, and to a study from Sweden that was neutral and thought it was not harmful. Does the Council of State mean, with such a massive amount of research evidence, that an experiment can be accepted by saying that there is reasonable reason to believe that this would lead to better training for the students involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1187	It's important to clarify two things. Firstly, the government has not said that we are going to approve all the applications for trials. We – and I – have said that we will not initially say no. And point 2: I think it's a bad idea to pre-sort trials based on political or ideological considerations. It was a practice that one could sometimes suspect previous governments to have, but it is not this government's practice. This government practice is that we are positive to the trial scheme. We have no plans to change it, and we will be open to trials that provide a real opportunity to examine whether different educational and organisational solutions can provide better learning. In terms of grades specifically, it is true that international research on it is cracking. Very familiar we have not had a thorough test of this in Norwegian school. So I repeat that I want to be positive for applications, but I do not guarantee that they will receive a yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1194	In the first answer, the Council of State pointed out that it was important — or at least he should pay attention — if the training organisations were involved locally. I know that right-wing Bergen at least has a message that they want to submit such an application. There are educational organisations against this. I would also like to mention that it is important for parents – I myself am a parent in the base school in Bergen – to be heard in such a matter. So once again, I want to ask the Council of State: how strongly will the Council of State focus on what teachers' organisations think locally, and how should parents be heard before the attempt is, if necessary, granted or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1199	What I referred to was today's legislation. The application shall also be discussed with teacher organisations, both at school and at local level. It is also natural for the municipality to ensure that parents and students are informed about the consequences of participating in trials. Then I am absolutely sure that a party that has as much respect for local democracy as the Central Party has does not believe that a minister of knowledge should go into the details of how a municipality formulates a possible application to the Education Directorate. I believe that, in the pact with what is common in Norway, the municipalities decide the best for themselves. I believe it is important that decisions are taken almost as closely as possible to the citizens, and I know that the centre party is also concerned about that. So that discussion I will leave to the municipality of Bergen, even if there is an application. The Education Directorate will, of course, take a decision on it if it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1217	This question lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1225	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘After signals from the Minister of Knowledge on attempts at grades in high school, a number of municipalities are now considering applying for trials. This despite international research showing that numbers in high school do not promote learning and that there is a majority in the United Kingdom against the use of numbers in primary school. Does the Council of State consider that it is reasonable to use time and resources to carry out scattered tests with numerical characters in Norwegian primary schools, and that this will add new knowledge that international research does not demonstrate today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1234	Let me first stress again that I am familiar with a broad majority of the Grand Duchy for access to the application for a trial, and that is the starting point here, namely that there is access to the training law to apply for a trial. I have not heard that any parties believe that that access should lapse. There is little research specifically on grades in primary school. So we don't have clear points of view to say what kind of effect numbers will have on pupils' learning outcomes. What we know is that research shows that professional feedback is a very effective tool for students' learning outcomes. Specially high effects have feedback that contains information about what is needed to better master a given subject. Information about what the student can do is effective, but it's a little less. However, there is no research that says anything about the effect of a combination of numerical characters and professional feedback as an assessment for the pupils at the nursery, and I want to stress very clearly that the fact that you have grades is not a substitute for good, thorough feedback from the teacher, such as that. works in high school. I believe it is important that we work continuously for the best possible assessment practice in the school. We're going to give assessments that promote students' learning outcomes. Trials with other forms of assessment in primary school can be a good approach when we cannot look at other research. The intention is to learn, i.e. generate knowledge that is important for future practice and school development. If we are to learn from the tests, the effect must be investigated. The Ministry may provide guidance for tests on childhood grades, both for method, device and scale. If it becomes appropriate to grant trials, I will consider the possibilities we have for providing qualitatively good trials that are suitable for giving us new knowledge of the use of grades in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1245	I didn't ask if there was a majority of attempts in this room. It's not about it at all – it was the Toppe who asked about it. State councils say there's little research on grades in high school. I just want to refer to, among other things. Hattie, a well-known, great scientist, Stadler, Black & William. The OECD does not recommend numbers at primary school, if the Right has previously said that they do. We read in the magazine Education that a number of researchers, from Denmark, London, Switzerland, Gothenburg and Bergen, are opposed to grades in high school, because they say it doesn't seem to be encouraging, but it's anti-learning. Characters are basically a way you can get ranked, but it doesn't work that way that you learn more. I know that the Council of State has said in the past that he has not been in favour of introducing grades in high school. Will the Council of State continue to stand at its primary position?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1254	Governments have exactly the same position as government. The government platform does not say that we should introduce grades from the 5th grade, and that is why I have also said that this is not government policy. The starting point is that we have a test scheme, and I am familiar with the fact that there have been no systematic, thorough trials in Norway — based on Norwegian school days — with grades in primary school. So I believe that the point of this experimental system is not to say yes or no in advance on an ideological basis. This means that we will also consider applications that are ‘in conflict’ with the adopted school policy of the Right Party and the Progressive Party if there are good and thorough trials. I give no guarantee that anyone who applies will receive a yes, and I also give no guarantee that anyone who applies will receive a yes. But I have said that we will meet such trials with an open mind, and that there will be good, thorough trials that can also be scientifically investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1266	The Council of State says he's not concerned with the ideological, but I know that the Council of State is probably concerned with the research. And when we have so much, and so wide, research into this using grades -- whether it's in high school or in high school -- what's the point that we're going to have our own research on whether it works for our students? Because we want the students to be motivated by grades, and the research shows that the most attractive are motivated by grades, while those who are not so good are being discouraged. And the nicest don't make an extra effort, and they don't take the most difficult tasks either because they're afraid not to achieve the characters they have. This is what the research already says today, and therefore I don't understand why we're going to spend time and resources on this – as the Council of State Truers is very concerned that we're not going to do in the public sector; he says we have to take the time thieves, avoid long meetings, reporting requirements, etc. Can the Council of State explain to me why we're going to have an experiment, as it stands here?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1273	It's not the ministry that says we should have a try. The Ministry — or the Directorate of Education — may say yes or no to applications for tests. So the representative draws up what's really a kind of research philosopher discussion, because if I understand the representative right, it's that because we have thorough research in one area, research should stop and stop. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe that one of the dynamics of free research is that you have new research all the time, that you keep driving a field. And although I fully agree that Hattie's overview and book, which is, of course, the largest meta-study done on research in the field of education, is a very good point of reference and gives very good insights – for example. in the case of betting on the teacher, as this government does – this does not mean that research will stop with this book. This government is in favour of experimentation, and we are also open to attempts in areas that are not government's explicit policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1286	‘The Minister of Knowledge has expressed a desire for more transparency about the results of national tests at school, so that they can be used by municipalities, school leaders, municipal politicians and parents. National Councils will provide for the ranking of schools at municipal level but not at national level. The right has also programmed that parents should be able to choose school for their children, even across municipal borders. The Christian People's Party fears that this will increase the difference between schools, and create A and B schools in the municipalities. Does the Council share this concern?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1293	I would like to thank the representative for the question, because it gives me a very good opportunity to correct a misunderstanding that is often repeated, but not more true just because it is repeated often, namely that this government wants to facilitate the ranking of schools. That's not right. What this government wants to accomplish is the same principle that had been applied when the Right Party and the Christian People's Party were set up in 2001–2005, namely that the public results of the national tests are available. Now those results are available today; it's just that they're not posted on the websites, i.e. on the school portal.no. What we want is for school-level results to be posted to the School Gate, but the Education Directorate is not going to make any rankings, either at national or municipal level. So I share the concern that this is going to be rankings, and that's why I've also said very clearly that the kind of national rankings that I've seen in the press sometimes don't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1300	I thank you for your answer. It is reassuring to hear that the Department and the Council themselves will not produce a ranking, but there may be others who are interested in it if there is greater transparency about the results. This could be done, for example, by: be journalists. We can see that the press, the local authority, takes hold of this and ranks the schools in a municipality. As I see it, there is already transparency around the results that those who need this in order to use national tests as a tool have transparency. So then I don't quite understand why we need further openness. I would like the Council of State to be a little concrete about who needs transparency, who does not have it today, and what does he think we can do to prevent journalists and local authorities from making municipal rankings?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1307	By virtue of the Public Health Act, everyone who wishes to have access to the results of the national tests is now entitled to have access to it, i.e. the right to obtain the results. It is not the case today that the results of the national tests are given only to politicians, teachers or others who may be interested. Anyone can contact the Education Directorate and ask for these results. What we're going to add up to from the fall of 2014, is that you don't have to ask for the results, but that the results, even at school level, are going to be available at the school portal.no. I think that makes sense. The representative Tyvand asks about who might think of having an interest in it. The answer is parents, grandparents, uncles and aunts – all who are interested in improving the school. The representative of Tyvand asks a question about what we can do to prevent journalists from using the information as journalists editorially assess it. The answer to that is that in a democracy: luckily nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1316	Thank you for that answer. There are many things that can be the reason a school does well in a municipality, while another school doesn't do well. National tests give an answer to the question of which schools achieve what score, but they say very little about the background. This could be done, for example, by: be demographic differences within a municipality, the main cause of which is that of it. This isn't going to happen. I myself am the father of a 1st grade, and I think it's so nice to see that my girl is so incredibly proud of her school. It is also seen on May 17th, when the children go on trains and lift the tab for their school: there is a pride. Is the Minister of Knowledge afraid that it might turn out negative if any children learn that their school is actually the worst in the city? Isn't it that if we make this information more accessible, we're going to increase the possibility of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1327	I fully agree that there may be many reasons why a school does less well in the national trials for a year, and one of the things we're also going to try to do is to provide results that are corrected for socio-economic background variables – in other words, that you also get what the result is, corrected for, for example. the background of parents and pupils. It is also worth saying that there are just different reasons — for example, We know that the situation of parents is related to the way children do it at school – making it pointless with these national rankings. I agree that there may be negative things out of openness, but what I mean is very bad for a six-year-old, seven-year-old or twelve-year-old, is if you go to a school where you don't learn what you need. Openness about school outcomes doesn't make school either better or worse, but it gives us a chance to address the problems, so that the school can get better for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1340	«The County Council of Troms, formed by the Right, Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, proposes extensive closures and centralisation of lines and schools in the county. It is feared that closures will weaken communities, educational diversity, increase non-response and fewer opt for higher education. In the Government Declaration, the Government is committed to combating non-response. Centralisation of offers will lead to more hybel-dwelling students, who are a vulnerable group for non-response. What does the Council of State think of this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1347	Of course, I am familiar with the proposed changes in the school structure for secondary education in Troms. However, in Norway, it is a good starting point that the State and the Ministry also respect the responsibilities of the different levels of government, and it is the county that is responsible for higher education, including the school structure. I, and the government, do not intend to introduce a practice where one centralizes more of the power that is currently in the 19 counties of Norway, to the state and the ministry. On the basis of that principle, there is just one idea of local freedom of action, for which I know that SV is also in favour. I think it's the local people who know the most about local conditions, and who also have the best conditions to decide what the school structure should be. Then, as in all democracies, you will be able to express your opinion on it, both daily, through newspapers, social media, etc., and through free elections every four years. As a knowledge minister, I cannot oblige a county council to maintain certain schools or offers, and I, and the government, also have no plans to propose that the state should have that opportunity. However, the county is not entirely free to cut training provision. They must comply with the minimum requirements of the law to comply with the right to secondary education for young people residing in the county on one of the three training programmes provided by the county. In addition, there has been a general and general commitment to ‘plan and develop an advanced training offer that takes into account, inter alia, national objectives, the needs of applicants and society for secondary education in all educational disciplines. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1358	We have a good tradition in Norway for the Minister of Knowledge to take national leadership on certain issues. Departure has been one of these questions, but there are also a number of other areas where one thinks that we as a society have to contract. We know, from several studies, that the farther away from the educational place people live, the less relevant the education is for their choices and the fewer the choices they have, the more likely it is that they do not carry out further training – thus increasing non-response. There are actually three things I think can be a theme for the Minister of Knowledge: One is a coordinated fight against non-response. A national effort is needed here. The closure of education provision in Tromsø might have been prevented if one had tried new solutions for how to organise the teaching. In 2013, it is not necessary to use entirely normal variants for closure. The question is, what does the Minister of Knowledge think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1373	In the case of non-response, the previous Minister of Knowledge launched a project called the New GIV, which was aimed at improving implementation, i.e. getting more through high school. That project will now be evaluated. There's good reason to think that much of that work is worth going on, and then there's probably some things that we should change. But with regard to the ambition to reduce the dropout, there is no disagreement, although there may be disagreement about the instruments. As far as new technology is concerned, I fully agree that there are great opportunities. In the 2014 budget, there are a number of initiatives, including: a bet on the Massive Open Online Courses, which we need to find a Norwegian name, which sounds good. This is primarily intended for the implementation of a higher education profession. But there are many exciting opportunities, including for higher education, that we're going to look at further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1382	That's exactly where I think this is going to be very relevant. In the process of shutting down the studios around Troms, it has not been estimated whether one could use new technology. And that's exactly in the kind of question I imagine the Minister of Knowledge is going to take on a national leadership role. The Minister of Knowledge has, among other things: the management of the ICT Centers in Education, which are located in Tromsø, and which have not been used by the Troms politicians in this context. Had a systematic work on this, together with the Minister of Knowledge and the State – but also with other states, because this is part of a national trend in reducing education, which has taken off now especially in the fall – I believe we had come in a completely different situation than the one we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1391	I'm a little uncertain as to whether the centralisation of education offers has speeded up this fall. Now I don't remember exactly how many cross-country schools that were closed in the previous eight years, but there's a significant number, so there's another development that's been going on for years, and that has nothing to do with the government change. With regard to the technological possibilities, I'm very open to that discussion. I think it's a very exciting debate. Firstly, it is important to ensure that new technologies are not seen as purely savings measures. Secondly, it's probably important to remember that even though technology is good, meeting face to face, participating with other students, meeting the teacher face to face, has a very important value. I don't think technology can do that so that students don't have to come to school, but there's obviously some way to have more decentralised education services in a different way than today. I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1398	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-27.ana.ud280e1411	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
