ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e26	The representative of Truls Wickholm, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. They called the alternates, for Rogaland County Terje Halleland and for Troms County Eva Ottesen, have taken their seats. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e42	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal to streamline labour immigration to Norway through simpler rules, better practices and faster procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e47	The representative, Oskar J. Grimstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e50	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Henning Skumsvoll, Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tåldal and the signatures, I am delighted to make a proposal to lift the ban on the use of lead hail for hunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e67	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, Mr. Trond Giske and Mr. Marit Arnstad will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative, Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e74	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. For almost eight years we've had a red-green government, and Councillor Arnstad is the third in the line of Ministers of Transport who on the in and out boasts that it has never been built any more way. I think it might be time for the Council of State to take a walk into the real world. It seems to be far from the Minister's office. Only last year Sweden was almost eight times better than us in road construction. We built barely 11 km of four-field road while the Swedes built 80. When we built 29 km in the middle in 2012, the Swedes built 119. This shows that we have left the neighbouring country of Sweden. When the minister was confronted with this, the answer was that it is much harder to build a road in Norway. Let's then include countries like Austria and Switzerland, countries that both have high mountains, deep valleys and lots of snow. Nevertheless, the infrastructure is built at a pace that Norway under this government can only dream of and envy them, but which we should also be clear about with the large oil revenues we have. Back to Sweden: a total of 672 km of road free has been built in the last four years. If you go back across the border, you can see that we have built in Norway 111 km of poor people in the same period, which is hardly the distance from Oslo to the Viking ship in Hamar. The whole 561 km of road without meeting is therefore built in Sweden than in Norway. It's longer than the distance from Oslo to Trondheim, or actually almost all the way home to Arnstad State Council. My challenge to the Council of State is: Will she put away old thinking goods, and does she see that others succeed in using new solutions such as establishing state-owned companies that are given the responsibility to deploy the infrastructure at a great pace? When Sweden delivers such good results, the Progress Party expects that the Council of State has become familiar with the success formula. Can the Council of State draw up some of the lessons that Norway can learn from the Swedish on road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e89	It is true that Sweden started earlier and has built more roads than Norway. Whoever builds the most today is a little difficult to say, and the number of km open four-field roads per year, as TV 2 refers to, will probably vary a bit from year to year. But there is no doubt that Sweden started early, already in the 1960s, and they have built more than us. At the same time, nor has it been built more roads in Norway than now. Many skilled entrepreneurs and workers around the country are building roads right these days. The economic framework laid down in the NTP for 2010–2014 has been met and road and runways are being built at a very different pace than before. However, I am concerned that we will get more out of the money we spend on transportation. There are a lot of opportunities for, without having to go through OPS, or by removing transport policy from debate in political forums. It is possible to speed up further, and it is possible to get more money back – both by making greater demands for efficiency, to plan faster, to build more coherently, and also to maintain better than we do today. I have noticed that proposals have been made here on reorganisations or that politicians are going to discuss transport less. I don't think it's necessarily the way to go. I think we should first of all look at how we implement the projects, and I also think that the agencies should focus fully on the development and implementation of projects, rather than, for example, projects. major reorganisations or mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e100	I record that the Council of State believes that building less than 11 km in a year is to be historic, and that we build as never before here in the country. There are at least examples of building more than 11 km in this country for many years. But just to say – on the altar of greed – how it is: in the railway sector, 135 km have been built in the 13 years from 2000 to 2013. It's not very much to shout "hurra-me-hei." I don't think the Council of State should be so pleased with that. Then the state council and the government boast that there are such historic stakes, while the decline – on both the national and state roads – must be said to be historically high. It has never been higher than after this government took over. The administrative reform must almost be renamed a maturity reform, with a total of 55 billion. kr in due amount. How does the Council of States think it's time to take this back to maturity, and how long are you going to take back to maturity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e109	First of all, a little bit about numbers. Hoksrud and I might be based on a little bit of different numbers, but it's like almost 1,000 km of highway is either open, under construction or ready for take-off under this government. Thus, the fraction of what is available in Norway from non-conference roads and four-field roads is either open, under construction or for start-up during this government. The figures also show that projects equal to 20 billion. kr related to the intercity expansion is already under construction. So I think the numbers also tell a story about what the red-green government has done in terms of transportation. As far as maturity is concerned, the Ministry of Transport has helped to order a report on the maturity of both national and county roads. That's because we need an overview of the amount of lag. That's what we've been given, and I think it's a report that also gives us the opportunity to design a future policy to re-enter the maintenance side. It's a task that the government is usually taking seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e116	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e119	Norway likes to compete internationally. We like to be the best or among the best. In winter sports, we particularly like to beat Sweden, Switzerland and Austria. But when it comes to roads and trains, Norway is the one that's being beaten – we're being repressive. We are far behind on the road and on trains, despite all the oil wealth. What is the Council of State's recipe for resuming the leap? The important question to answer to users and railway users is this: When will Norwegian roads and Norwegian railways be among the best in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e126	As I mentioned in my first answer, Sweden started earlier. As far as 50 years ago, from 1959 onwards, they started an extension that we didn't start at that point. It's clear that you can't take back a lead that's built over 50 years, in eight years, even in twelve. But I think there are a lot of grips that can be taken to make the Norwegian transport system more modern and also better than today. As I also said in my first answer, it is a job that the government has started. The pace has increased considerably during this government, and it's going to be further increased. But as important as increasing the pace, we're also much more aware of how we're going to get the most out of the resources we put into the transport sector, how we're going to get more money back. Then we also need to look at both the planning time, the efficiency and the ability to build more coherently and to maintain the road capital we have, in a better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e133	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e136	I almost understand the Council of State that because Sweden has started before, they also have other solutions to do things. Then we have an excellent opportunity to take a shortcut and go in for the good solutions that the Swedes have found out are the best. I want to stay a little bit at this maintenance kit run as mentioned by the Council of State. It is alarming to hear that there are as large sums as 55 billion. kr – even 75 brd. I guess it was a report that said – in retrospect. We've seen this over some years. Right and other opposition parties have proposed maintenance funds that would be able to rectify this unabated. The government parties have voted in favour of it again and again. What solutions does the Council of State have to meet this enormous challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e144	It is true that the reports now submitted by the State Road Administration on decay, both on highways and on county roads, provide us with a better overview of what has been delayed on the maintenance side. It will be an important tool for shaping the policy forward in re-establishing it. It's usually a task that the government takes very seriously. We take those reports very seriously. We will come back in connection with the national transport plan and provide further information to the Stortingen on how the government sees it that we are going to be able to take back part of it. I also think it is important to take into account the methodology of these reports, that part of it is a question of mere aftermath. Part of it is also about upgrading, especially on the tunnel side, which is necessary in the light of new regulations and regulatory conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e151	Knut Arild Hareide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e154	I belong to a state council that's very satisfied with the state. When we sum up almost eight years of red-green governance, we see that seven out of ten projects in the field of transportation are delayed. We see that last year Sweden built eight times more motorways than Norway. We get reports that say it's 30 pst. more expensive to build roads in Norway, because of the way we organize the work. It takes ten years to plan and build a road in our country. There is a report from the Directorate of Roads, which says that the downfall of the county roads is between 45 billion. kr and 75 brd. kr. So my question is very simple: is the Council of State as clear as it sounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e159	I've never used the word 'pleasure'. I have said that the pace has increased under this government in relation to previous governments. That's what I'm saying, because it's a fact. But I believe that the pace needs to be further increased in terms of resources and not least in terms of the question of getting more money back for the money you put into the transport sector. Faster planning is a topic that I have addressed in many contexts, and which I believe is extremely important. The ability to reduce planning time and to start projects faster and to build them more coherently than we have done so far is a very important topic. In addition, I believe that the trade unions need strong demands in terms of efficiency. That's also a question that's natural to include in the future. In the case of seven out of ten delays, as the NHO report mentions, I believe that the NHO report is misleading, in the sense that it also includes delays when dealing with delayed start-up, but you open the project in due time. That's not my perception of what a delay is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e168	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e171	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Visiting others, learning from others and expanding their horizons often contribute to bringing the world forward. But if you just go on a visit and boast about what you're doing, you don't learn anything. A quick look at the situation of our neighboring countries shows us that both have much better roads than us, and they solve the problem smarter, so they get faster solutions. Is it then unwilling to learn from others that makes the Council of State in the TV 2 report from Sweden say that it is difficult to imagine that we can do it differently in Norway? Whether everyone sees that the systems of the Brothers – Finns and Danes, and to the extent that the Austrians – are using them, we continue with our detailed management. It's thought-provoking when Marit Arnstad's Swedish colleague says she doesn't think it's necessary to control the details, because it's not certain that it's the best thing for the country. She can also refer to eight times more highway built in 2012 with her model than Marit Arnstad can with his model. From the Right we have repeatedly proposed similar practices as in Sweden and Denmark, with their own project companies, project financing and organisational models to expand the realization horizon. This must be precisely in order to avoid ‘stop and go’ and clandestine expansion, which this government unbelievably continues to defend – despite the fact that its own under-deaths are asking for other and more modern solutions. I ask the question by twisting the Council of State's own statement: Why in the world does the Council of State say that it is difficult to do things differently in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e184	My opinion on TV 2 in that context needs to be seen in relation to the question that was asked and the topic of the case. The theme of the case was that in Sweden, transport policy and transport projects are not treated in the same way in the national assembly and government as in Norway. I have said that it is difficult to imagine taking the transport field out of the Storting. I experience a great interest in transportation in Stortinget. It's an interest I take seriously. I try to answer this as quickly as I can. I don't think you can imagine that the Storting will dissociate itself from the opportunity to participate in adopting important parts of the transport policy in the future. In this context, you have to see my opinion on TV 2, because it was an answer to a question related to it. So I'm open to looking at new ways to organize things. I think it's important and necessary. On the so-called Joint Project along Mjösa, the Railway Agency and the State Road Service work together to build road and track at the same time. They do it very quickly – about as fast as the OPS project to which the Right often refers, the one between Grimstad and Kristiansand. It's a rational drive, without delay. I also think you can imagine models in the future where builders are not only responsible for development, but also for the operation and maintenance of a road that they have built. But all of this can be done in public. You don't have to resort to OPS to do that. These are probably things that you can take out more in the years to come than what you've done so far. Project funding is also an interesting topic to discuss. But what I've said is that I don't think OPS is the solution to all the problems or challenges in the transport sector. OPS does not release any funds. OPS pushes the bill forward to future governments and commits to future budgets. Therefore, OPS as a form of financing is a very unfortunate form of financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e193	I don't think I mentioned OPS once in my post. I notice that the Council of State does not mention Vestfold – where 90 km is completed in 32 years. Then we talk about an exhibition window for Norwegian transport policy. We can also go to Denmark and see how they have solved their major projects. They have solved them by large project companies that have a free framework to expand them with their own financial instruments. It is not unknown to us in Norway either. We used it when we built the Gardermo – with great luck. Then the Stortinget said that six years after this decision, Gardermoen will be finished. On the day six years later, Gardermoen was finished – on budget. Why not use this way of organizing large-scale projects, with which we also have good experience in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e200	I have not at any time distanced myself from project funding or project organisation. I've said it's an interesting topic to discuss. In the past, we have seen examples of this, to which the representative refers, namely the Danish model of individual commercial development. It's possible the representative doesn't mention the OPS, but I think that's reason, because that's often what comes out when you talk about alternative organisation. My point is that there are many opportunities to organise more effectively and better within the public sector in the field of transport today. That's what I think we're seeing about the joint project along Mjösa, and I think we're also going to see in the future about the relationship between construction, operation and maintenance. Then it is important to stress that today there are absolutely private entrepreneurs building for the State Road Administration in Norway. They're not just private and Norwegian, they're also foreign, and they're doing a very good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e209	Four follow-up questions are raised – the first question is from Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e212	I thought I'd talk about public-private cooperation. I can inform the Council of State that it is not only a form of financing, but also a method of construction. The Government's own sub-states and the State Council's ordered reports from the Transport Economic Institute, from Møreforsking and from the Vista Group recommend that the Government use more modern and other methods, such as public-private cooperation, in order to achieve more efficient and comprehensive planning and development of major transport and road projects in Norway. The smell of asphalt is still absent in many strokes in our country. What makes the Council of State know better than its own sub-states and the unique reports ordered by the Council of State itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e222	Let me first say in terms of the smell of asphalt: it's probably quite a lot of places in the country right now, because in 2013 we're going to spend 1 billion. kr for asphalting 950 km. So it's a pretty big problem that's just going to be done in a year. So a little bit about OPS: I'm seagoingly aware that OPS is both a form of funding and an organisation form. With regard to the organisational benefits of OPS, it is my attitude – as I tried to say in the previous answer – that they can also be taken out in public. There is nothing in the way of allowing a public developer to also be responsible for operation and maintenance. There is nothing to stop you from organizing cooperation and being able to build as quickly as you can in the joint project along Mjösa, where you match the OPS projects in organisation and progress. What I have a big problem with is OPS as a form of funding. It's like inviting a guest party, and then you let the guests pay the bill for the meal one month later. In the OPS context, 25 years later – and create commitments on the State budget for 25 years – are to be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e231	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e234	It is interesting to hear the Council of State talk about inviting guests to a party, and then let others pay the bill afterwards. That is exactly what this government is doing in a large way with toll financing, where you invite them to a party and let the drivers pay in expensive judges afterwards. First I have to say, when the Council of State talks about the numbers: the numbers come from the Council of State itself and from the Swedish Transport Agency, so I think the numbers are voting. Sweden committed itself to the 1950s and 1960s, and they continue to bet – as opposed to not investing in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. We also didn't spend much money on the 2000s looking up to our neighboring country Sweden. The point is that in Sweden you have a frame of twelve years. They adopt a framework, and then there are discussions in Parliament, I am absolutely sure of where to spend the money. Then the trade unions are told to spend the money. What it's all about is that we need large, coherent projects with clear and long-term funding. That's what I'm going to challenge the government council on: Can't we get more long-term funding? And how can you build infrastructure if you don't get it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e245	It is true that Sweden started earlier, that they have built more. I will not go into various reasons why the pace has not increased to the same degree in Norway, but I just want to show that the pace has increased sharply during this government. We're suggesting that the pace should increase even more in the years ahead. So to the Swedish model: As I have tried to say in previous answers, it is my opinion that the Swedish model would have contributed to the fact that the Stortinget had come too little into the discussions about transportation. I don't think it's possible to imagine that in Norway, we can avoid discussing a major transport project without government and corruption inside the picture. But what you can do, as I have also mentioned, is that you can make a greater distinction between small and large projects, and probably also increase the level of opportunities for the agencies to have more control over the smaller projects. I think that can also contribute to fewer delays, because you get a greater rationality in the small projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e252	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e255	Governments say that the pace has increased dramatically. I think that's a claim one must go further into the country with to get the grob for. One cannot go to Hamar, to Åkersvika, and says that the pace has increased dramatically. Four years ago the Ministry of the Environment received a complaint to decide. So the government has still not taken a position. The record holder sits in this room: Board Vegar Solhjell runs the department that has the longest seat on a roadbag – ever. Is it sustainable that one should spend four years dealing with a complaint? Does the Council agree that, in the case of complaints, the government must also have time limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e262	The question of Åkersvika is a matter for consideration in the Ministry of the Environment, so the procedure there I will leave to others to answer. I just want to say that it's a little bit important to have a consciousness around that there's some very difficult issues related to transportation. These include choice of trajectory and conflicts in nature diversity and the cultivation of land — and in this case also the question of putting this project very close to a residential area. There are things that help to make it take some time. I think that's something we all have to remember – not just the government, but also locally you have to think about it in the years to come. I think there are opportunities to be able to streamline this process. We come back in the national transport plan with some suggestions about it – one of them is related to the issue of a deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e271	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e274	It was with a little wonder that I read an article in Today's Business, where the Minister of Transport writes: «Money isn't everything» – this after I only heard about money spending in the field of transport after I entered the Storting eight years ago. The left has always felt that it is more important to get the most out of the money used. It is also – absolutely – in the interests of taxpayers. So it's good that the Minister of Transport now has a new rhetoric – unknown to me until now. Left will consider dividing the government budget process into annual operating budgets and into multi-annual investment budgets. Is this something the Minister for Transport, who now thinks in new ways, could think of going into it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e283	I understand that the representative Tenden is a little surprised, but I have been talking since I got into the offices about the need to get more money back for the money we gave in the transport sector. I have been in numerous debates here in the Chamber and have talked about short planning times, and there is a need to impose efficiency requirements on the agencies. I also think that in order to make good use of the construction market, you have to look at the contract strategies. You have to bring in more foreign entrepreneurs, and we have had a very positive turnout over time. I've been talking about it all along, you have to get more for the money. I think it's very important, as well as increasing resources and increasing pace. As far as multiannual budgeting or funding is concerned, the question we are getting back to in the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e290	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e294	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Norway has long industrial traditions. Based on the use of natural assumptions and high levels of competence, industry has laid the foundation for the welfare society we have today. In recent years, however, we have seen a division of Norwegian industry, where the non-oil industry lags behind. Large parts of industry compete in an international market. The conditions in Norway, which are designed quite differently from those of foreign operators, may weaken the competitiveness of businesses and result in the closure of businesses, or may be displaced by newly established capacity in countries with better framework conditions. The Minister of Economic Affairs said the following to the newspaper on Friday: ‘We need to become even more efficient, productive and innovative in Norway. [[...]] We need to help Norwegian business to make the transition. It is important to ensure that Norway continues to have a diverse industry.’ The quotation shows what is the main challenge for the government. The ball is played from the minister and over to others other than those with the top responsibility. The Minister only points out that industry itself needs to take action, and appears to be less concerned with its own responsibilities and measures that the government can take to improve the situation. It has been announced a very long-term and requested business message that I have understood will also include the framework conditions of the industry. Such notification shall prepare the basis for business conditions in the next decade. Can the Minister of Industry tell what kind of prospects he sees for competitive industry in the next decade? And what measures will the Minister of Industry and the Government itself contribute to uplifting industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e310	Ten years is a long time to predict. Ten years ago, few people could have predicted that Europe and the United States would go through their worst setback in 70 years, so I'm going to refrain from saying what the world is going to look like in 2023. However, the fact that we win market shares is good for Norwegian business, that we have a strong growth in employment, including in the private sector, is a fact. And it's very important that in the middle of the talk about a two-part -- where it's true that what's related to oil and gas in particular, is essentially going very well, and that there are some other industries that are struggling -- not that everything that's not related to oil and gas is going bad. On the contrary, the strongest employment growth in Norway is in sectors other than oil and gas. Especially in services sectors, we have a huge employment trend. In fact, we also have more jobs in industry and mining today than we had when the red-green government took over in 2005. Over several decades there has been a falling curve, it is now stabilized and actually increasing. The industry announcement we have announced will take care of the entire industry and all the tools we have, but will have special attention to the industry. Here we can contribute a lot. The most crucial are the overall economic framework conditions: interest, currency, wage development and monetary policy. But also things like power contracts, research and innovation, competence – enough engineering capacity, for example. – trade agreements with other countries and support for energy efficiency improvement are part of the diversity of measures that we have, which we use, and which we use more actively, to build up under a Norwegian competitive industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e317	I thank you for your answer. Yes, I understand that it may be difficult for the Council of State to predict ten years in advance, not least in view of the polls that the Red-Green Government parties currently have. But it is now the case that the yard industry has lost several large contracts abroad in recent months, for example. three rigging contracts have been awarded to Korea and the Netherlands respectively. We see that competition continues to increase, and China, the United Kingdom, Korea and the Netherlands are some of the players competing in the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. The reasons for this may be more, but, in particular, on the cost side, increased labour costs, special taxes and other cost-reducing factors are detrimental to Norwegian actors. What does the Minister of Industry think is the reason why several large contracts now go abroad? And what kind of action will the Council of State take to strengthen industry's ability to win future contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e324	I fully agree with the questioner that it would have been easier to predict how things would go in the future for Norwegian business if I was sure that the red-green government would continue. We have had nearly 350,000 more jobs since we took over in 2005. In the period 2001–05, when the civil society fell, 11 000 more jobs were created in Norway. We've had stronger growth per quarter while we've been running, than it was in four years under bourgeois government. We want that growth to continue very strongly. It goes very well in the oil and gas supply industry, but it is absolutely right that we should pay attention to cost developments, and that we have recently seen that some contracts have gone to other countries. That's what the industry is working on. We made ourselves a yard package when the crisis was there, to contribute to innovation, productivity development and a more efficient industry, and we will continue to do so in close dialogue with industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e331	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e334	I'm a little uncertain about what really is the government's reality when I hear the Council of State now, because at the latest in today's Business on Thursday, the Minister of Industry said the following: ‘We will lose thousands of jobs towards 2020’. In the same newspaper, the Prime Minister says that he is now warning about a new descent, and that he sees the outlines of what we call a 'double dip'. So what's really the government's reality -- look at the rosy story that the Minister of Industry is drawing -- I'm very uncertain about. However, the more important it is: if we face major challenges as a result of the euro crisis, it is important to look at what kind of opportunities we have to create new jobs. Then the mineral industry has a very important potential. So the question to the Council of State is quite simple: when does the very long-term mineral strategy that we've been waiting for actually provide new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e344	Let's do the reality first. The Prime Minister and I are in complete agreement. What is happening in Europe is deeply worrying. The EU believed they would grow in 2013. Now it turns out that there will be a fall again in the EU in 2013. There are now 26 million unemployed in the EU. It's the same number as it's employed in the whole Nordic and Benelux countries together. There's a value loss of 12,000 billion a year, which they could be producing if they had been working. In Norway, in the middle of this crisis, we have 3 pst. unemployment — full employment — and good growth. ‘Rosen red’ is a word too mild to describe such a result in the midst of a European crisis. We're going to have an offensive industrial policy in the areas where we have priority, and the mineral area is just such an area. We have a potential of maybe 1,500 to 2,500 billion. kr in values in Norwegian mountains that can be extracted and delivered to an international market. That strategy is right around the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e351	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e354	The answers to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade are relatively predictable. We have heard the same answers up to several times, especially that we are on this island in Europe where very much is going very well. But unlike Europe, we have the oil and gas business. If the Council of State takes out what is involved in the oil and gas sector related to the increase in employment and the close to 100 000 jobs in the public sector to do and reduce slightly the period to which the Council of State tends to refer, it is sad to say that many other industrial jobs are lost in Norway. The development is not so rosy. My question to the Council of State should be very specific – just two things: one is linked to the mineral strategy, because, in the case of Southvaringer development, among other things, reference is made to the mineral strategy, and there is no response to investment and impact assessment, because it has not been given that strategy. That's the number. 1st@item: inlistbox No. 2: When will we see the business news that the Council of State is talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e361	The mineral strategy is immediately clear. It is presented when we have put the last hand in the work. It will be an offensive strategy, including: with a comprehensive survey of the mineral resources available to us, so that commercial companies can know where there is a possibility to conduct profitable activities, including by improving the efficiency of the public procedure related to mineral development. The decision to make a business report has recently been made in the light of the gloomy picture we are looking at, and in the light of the fact that there are industries and niches in Norway that are particularly affected by the European crisis. It takes time to write such a message, but in the spring we're going to try to have it ready, because we need directions for how to deal with the crisis in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e368	Frank Bakke-Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e372	The rhetoric of state councils has changed over the last few years. Now, in fact, the Council of State admits that we in Norway are dependent on the economic cycle in the countries around us. The council has also begun to realize that the toolbox he's been broaching with is not so full. Some jobs in Norway will not survive. That's where we agree. An important key issue here is the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. In terms of the reality description, otherwise, we have agreed with the Council of State that it does not come out exactly the same. But it might be interesting to get the council to dangle around: what characterises a job he sees will disappear in the next few years – regardless of the election result for the autumn, since it's purely hypothetical? What are the characteristics of jobs that the Council of State sees as disappearing — often for thousands, as he said to DN?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e379	It is a bit difficult both to drier in Stortinget and to start pointing out jobs that are going to disappear – but I can take an example here and now. This concerns the paper industry. Here, we have lost some key businesses, not because they did a bad job, but because the markets are simply gone – because we are moving from newspaper paper to digital solutions, and because the economy is using less advertising paper in Europe. We're going to lose a lot of jobs, just because technology is changing, and because the market and demand are changing. The task is to create even more new ones. This process of transition is almost world-class in Norway, among others. by having very good welfare arrangements, which ensure that workers are safe in migration processes. We need to pay particular attention to what's happening out there, that we're being affected. I have been working on this from day one, not least through the most extensive free trade agreements with India, Russia, China, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, Central America and many other areas where we are now laying down the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e390	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e393	Once again, I would like to invite the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade to the podium, because I want to ask him questions in this context too – a little more generally. I think it is positive that the Council of State in Questions with me recently confirmed that he will try to provide a business message during this spring – that is positive. The thing is, we have to stop getting behind issues, we have to start getting ahead of them, so we know what we have to meet the challenges with. The government that is now to present this Enterprise Communication is the same as twice only the last and a half years have voted against the proposal from the signatory. It has not been necessary – it has been intended – with such a message. While everyone else has seen the signs in Europe, the government has only held back and held back – and will now deliver this message. In fact, we spoke in the first row about an industrial report. What you put in that term remains to be seen. But I think it's positive – and gives the Council of State credit for it – and looks forward to what's coming. I also point out that the Council of State in the newspaper today says that it will be assessed, like Switzerland, to look at the possibility of a free trade agreement with the United States. I would like to ask the Council of State to take this up with its partners in the EFTA bit immediately, just to try to get free trade negotiations going in this respect. I am deeply concerned about what we see in the industry. In this context, a number of measures could have been promoted. We've seen it related to depreciation rates – the government is talking about them, doing nothing with them. They're talking about SkattenFUNN and nutrient research. The government's talking about it -- it's doing nothing, it's just going on. We're talking about a power regime linked to cheap electricity. Before the government joined, it was said that you should have cheap power – only a guarantee system has been put in place. The temporary agency directive is next. When will we see concrete results from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e404	The concrete outcome of government policy can be seen around Norway every day. As I said before, it is 26 million unemployed around Europe – in Europe's worst 80-year crisis. One has to go back to the 1930s to find the corresponding unemployment rates and setbacks. In Norway, we have had an employment growth of 350 000 more jobs since 2005, two thirds of them in the private sector. So there's a difference in the sky. One can only look to Sweden. That's 8 pst. unemployment and over 20 pst. youth unemployment in our neighbouring country Sweden. It's not natural for these results to continue on their own. An offensive industrial policy is needed, an active industrial policy is needed, and not least a responsible economic policy is needed. What companies tell us that they are struggling with now is, in particular, the exchange rate, that the exchange rate between Norway and the rest of the world is such that the productivity gains in the enterprises are eaten up. One thing that politicians should do is to say that we should hold back money use, follow the rules of action and ensure that we have sound financial budgets. The challenge for the opposition is that here the attitude to the rule of action and the use of money is enormously broken. The questioner’s own party has repeatedly considered that the rule of action can be broken, and that spending 5–10–15–20 billion is not so dangerous for the Norwegian economy. Extra kroner. The target of this is the competitive industry, which will experience a further rise in cost levels, an exceptionally poor currency situation, and all the businesses making of efficiency, innovation and innovation are being eaten up by what we politicians do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e413	If the Council of State can go a little outside of its ingenious posts associated with these things, there's a couple of fields that I want to take up with him. The progress is focused on how to use the money. It is very important also in the context of a government budget. If investment and operation are to a greater extent distinguished, there is greater scope for operating more on the investment side, especially in the transport sector, etc. But this is not where I want to challenge the Council of States, because we've discussed this many times in the past. My question to the Council of State is related to concrete things – depreciation rates, which the industry is asking for. Norwegian Industry has just challenged the Council of State on that. The Temporary Agency Directive has recently challenged industry to the Council of State. The power regime has also been challenged by the Council of State. The problem is that we're still going to see that we're going after. The fact is, we're getting ahead of the problems. In terms of the number of persons employed, we're very lucky. Our Lord has given us oil and gas, and that makes us better off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e422	We had oil and gas – as far as I remember – in the period 2001–2005 as well. In four years we had an employment growth of 11,000 throughout Norway. Even the author's own county, Moore and Romsdal, has alone soon had as much employment growth under the red-green government as the whole of Norway had when the civilians crashed. For the representative's own voters and for the population, we hope that the red-green development will continue. As far as power is concerned, we are making the largest expansion of renewable energy in many, many years. We're going to bring 26 TWh more into the Norwegian and Swedish systems. We've got a lot of new, long-term industrial contracts for power, precisely because you see that there's plenty of access to power. We have received Europe's best CO2 compensation for industry, with the margin on the electricity price that CO2 quotas in Europe now bring. In this area, the government delivers everything the industry has asked for – and so it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e435	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Torgeir Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e438	State Council Giske told the previous speakers – based on the show list – how many jobs have been created in the industry. Even I come from Northland County, which is a large industrial group. We have only lost around 700 jobs in Meløy, in Narvik around 800 jobs – and also in Mo in Rana. Some 1,500 industrial workplaces have been lost. Then I think it's going to be a little stupid to bring in the show list. So Giske has also said, when this has gone wrong, that the government has a toolbox. He has a toolbox, the tools are there, and you have the means to get this going again. Then my question to Giske is: Has he lost the key to the toolbox? At least that's not what you've seen. The progress party wants to get a business message, an industry message. We want to look at the agreements for force, etc., but the Council of State does nothing. So my question is, if the Council of State finds the key to the toolbox, can he give some examples of what framework conditions he wants to create, so that the industry in the districts can also survive?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e447	Firstly, we have employment growth also in northern countries, and the examples to which the question refers are linked to one specific enterprise, REC, which has had to close down the business both in Narvik and several other locations because it has simply been out of competition – regardless of Norwegian framework conditions. There are no Norwegian framework conditions that have allowed the Chinese to come in with massive low-cost solar panel production that has forced this industry to exit. We're still going to experience this. We can't freeze today's nutrient structure. If we had frozen the industrial structure of the 1970s, we would have been competing for the longest time! It is this shift – contributing to innovation, contributing to new start-up, contributing to new seed funds that we come with, contributing to more capital in Investinor, contributing to long-term power contracts, contributing to the yard package, contributing to the woodworking package, contributing to Enova providing money for energy efficiency, contributing to moderate wage developments to moderate wage settlement, contributing to an active state ownership that makes capital available to industry – and all these instruments that we need to use to secure work for all in the middle of Europe’s greatest crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e452	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e456	Several citizens have also given more jobs, but if you look at the employment rate, it is lower in the fourth quarter of 2012 than it was in the fourth quarter of 2005. The Council of State and the Prime Minister are very good at being concerned about things you can't do with, but lack the power to act where the policy can make a difference. It also said Chief Inspector Steinar Juel at DN.no last week, where he said the government should be far more concerned about the problems we've caused ourselves. We have the lowest investment in mainland Norway in over 40 years, and we have the highest cost level in Europe. Then the question raised by Nesvik relates to what the government is doing at home to strengthen its competitiveness. Let me point to one question: is the Council satisfied that research has been down-prioritized in four of the last five state budgets, that the growth of the research budget is lower than the growth of the other state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e461	The last one is simply wrong. If you correct for the automatic variables such as social security etc., the actual research budget – I think – has three times as strong growth as the general expenditure budget. When we took over in 2005, the research was 15 billion. Now it's 27 billion. kr. It's not enough, we're going to keep on betting, but there's been a historically strong growth in the research budgets. So to the first reasoning, for this I've heard the right saying many times. The fact that employment in Norway is caused by population growth is, in fact, a very strange reasoning. This must mean that the high unemployment rate in Spain is due to population shortages. It's not like people are missing in Spain. There are 26 million unemployed in Europe. It's people enough, it's the jobs that's missing. What happens is that people move from an EU in crisis, with great unemployment, to a Norway where the jobs come. They don't come because people come because it's work. That is the policy we have to ensure: that we have a historically low unemployment rate in Norway in the midst of a major European crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e468	Steinar Reiten - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e471	In recent years, there have been cost and crown developments in Norway that have created challenges for the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. When the Norwegian industry can no longer compete on price, it must be the best at innovation and innovation. Here is Norwegian industry in the top level, and so will we in the future. In 2011 and 2012, there was no increase in the real appropriations for research according to the NIFU annual report, and for industrial research, real growth was negative. At the same time, the use of oil money increased sharply. An overall political environment at the state level in More and Romesdal has expressed strong concern about this development. Can the Minister of Industry explain the reasons for the government's lack of initiative in industrial research? Is it because the government believes that other research activities are more important, or is it because the government believes they have been granted enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e478	I don't think any government – perhaps ever – would say that there will be enough for research, but we have therefore set the goal of being at OECD level with 3 pst in Norway. for research. 1 pst. shall be public, and 2 pst. must be private. We're close to one percent of the public sector. I fully agree with the question that we should ask ourselves how we can use that money more effectively. I would like to see a channelling where more of the research effort in the years to come goes to nutrient research, but we need to get a research promise in business itself, because there we are significantly behind. We can play together with the business community to get it done, among other things. through schemes such as SkattenFUNN, through business PhDs, through user-driven programmes, etc., and we will continue to do so in the years to come. With our cost level, our standard of living, it is competence, knowledge, innovation and new products that come out of, among other things. research, which is our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e483	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e486	I would like to continue by asking the Minister of Industry and Trade about the demanding competitive situation of the Norwegian supplier industry. It has been pointed out earlier in the debate that our cost growth is very high. It's 60 pst. over the trading partners and competitors in Europe, most of which have come in the last six–seven years. There is no doubt that competitiveness is impaired. In this situation, where competitiveness is now crucial, we see that the Norwegian supplier industry is still losing contracts to European competitors as well. The extra costs of implementing the Temporary Agency Directive, i.e. the increased hourly wage costs, are one of the key elements of competition. Other European countries – our competitors – have taken advantage of the scope of action contained in the exemption provisions of the Temporary Agency Directive by providing for regulatory derogations. Our increasingly weakened competitive situation now calls for action and implementation where possible, not to talk about all these other areas where it is not possible, which have been discussed today. The action room in the agency directive is such an opportunity. Can we expect the Council of State to use its power of action to do something about that possibility, or do we still want to see passivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e495	Let me first stress – since we are now in the main hall – that the Temporary Agency Directive and the publication of these questions belong to a government council other than the undersigned. I guess it's Anniken Huitfeldt who has to formally answer that, but it's clear that the government as such is concerned with two things: we're concerned about being competitive, and that we're going to have a business that's flexible, adaptable and able to compete for the big contracts. At the same time, it shall not be at the expense of employees' pay and working conditions. We can't risk Norwegian workers being squandered from our businesses because cheaply imported labour to a completely different salary and completely different working conditions than what we're used to in Norway, takes that place. We cannot build a Norwegian business, a Norwegian standard of living and Norwegian welfare on the basis of importing wage and working conditions from countries that are far poorer than us. There will be a completely wrong direction to go, and that is why we have been in favour of the agency directive. It was also the employers that we introduced. We are in favour of public service – yesterday there was a Supreme Court ruling that gave us solid support to the principles of public service – and we are in favour of calling on workers so that we avoid social dumping. I know that my colleague in the Ministry of Labour is committed to having a good dialogue with employers and employees to find good solutions in individual cases. For example, there are already exceptional provisions to ensure that: may bring these questions into the subject matter of the Tariff, but it is up to the parties and my colleague in the Ministry of Labour to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e502	I understand that it is convenient to refer to another Council of State, but the Council of State Giske is willing to interview today's Business on this issue and suggests how the solutions can be, etc. That is why I would like to repeat my question, because what is central is not what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is going to do with this in view of its introduction. What's central here is whether there's any will from our government council for this industry to influence, to get an exception in the regulations, which, according to today's business, can be done by saying that there are already openings for exceptions. It doesn't really, but the question is, will he do anything for the yard industry that is now losing contracts to the Netherlands, which has such an exception, or will he leave this to the Council of State Anniken Huitfeldt?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e507	We want to work very closely with, among other things. the paint industry. The shipbuilding industry now enjoys, among other things: that we have a rather offensive commitment to opening up new fields, to expanding oil and gas resources, not least in the northern regions. So this is also something that has not only come of itself, but that is a result of political choices and a political direction. When the yard industry was in a deep crisis right after the financial crisis came to an end, we created a yard package that helped them through, and that makes it a lot of good jobs now. When I say that formally the Minister of Labour has to answer this, it is because we are now actually in the Storting and not in the Business premises of today. Here it is parliamentaryism that applies, and a Council of State gets to answer in the Storting in the areas that are his or her constitutional responsibility, and then DN gets to deal with its constitutional questions in the DN's way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e514	There are two follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner. It is true, as has been pointed out in the exchange of words so far, that questions should mainly concern the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e520	It's a comment that I generally want to share. At the same time, we are in a very strange situation when the Minister of Industry can run around in the newspaper editorials and have opinions on most things, but that he in Stortinget will not comment on such a central issue for Norwegian business. We are in a situation where we have the lowest investments in the mainland economy over 40 years old, we have the highest cost level in Europe, and then this is a question that is about giving Norwegian business the same competitive conditions as the rest of Europe. So I really think I just want to repeat the question: does the Council of State think that Norway should take advantage of the scope of action contained in the agency directive, as other countries in Europe have done, or does the Council of State think that this is a matter that is not so essential for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e527	I can answer the same thing here as what we said in the DN when the Prime Minister and I were interviewed about this: the temporary agency directive itself and the objective of non-discrimination should not lead to temporary workers becoming more expensive than permanent employees, and there are enough public service arrangements that can in some cases lead to that. And so there is already an exception – as far as I have understood – that makes it possible to bring this matter into the subject of Tariffs, but the principles that hired temporary workers must have the same pay and working conditions as permanent employees do not mean that we will be involved in undermining. It is an important principle that our well-being, our working life, should be based on Norwegian values, on Norwegian tradition and on Norwegian, proper conditions. If the Right wants to open up to undermine this, well, then they have to win the majority of the people for it – and it looks so far bright for it right now – but we're going to fight to keep these frames around a decent and decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e532	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e535	It would have been an advantage if the relevant State Council, which is responsible for the field, had been present here, then the State Council, Solhell, could be allowed to rest a little bit, but he is at least well seated, and there he will still be seated. The Council of State refers to the fact that there is another Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility for the Temporary Agency Directive, and that is quite correct, but the Council of State has created through the media the impression that there is an opportunity to lay down a rule of exception. Now the state council says he's unsure about that particular piece, and then the question is, is there any possibility or isn't there? Norwegian Industry’s business cycle report for 2013 is interesting reading. What you're asking for there is just to back up the rule of exception, as a number of our competitors have actually done. I'm not going to challenge the Council of State on this, because I expect the Council of State is just going to refer to its previous answers. But my specific question to the Council of State is this, linked to the competitiveness of helping industry: will the Council of State at least do something about the depreciation rates, which are very important for this sector of industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e544	After all, it is very stupid to use valuable Question Time to answer that the depreciation rates – that is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I am concerned that the overall financial framework conditions around the companies are good. Depreciation rates should reflect the real fall in the value of invested capital, and this is something that the Ministry of Finance considers continuously, and one also listens to technical advice from Norwegian industry about this. However, the main issue for Norwegian industry is these macroeconomic issues – the level of interest rates, currency and exchange rates are crucial. And if the Progress Party does not soon give a clear and unambiguous signal that the rule of action will be at the bottom of their economic policy, then this is the greatest element of uncertainty, the greatest unforeseeable, and perhaps the biggest problem that Norwegian industry will face if there is another majority. I said it looked ‘lighted’ for it. I correct myself: it looks dark when it comes to this!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e551	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e563	There will be one change in the set-up of the question list, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 9, from the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e576	‘The State Attorney has instructed the police districts of the country to hit hard on the use of personal watercraft. This happens even if ESA informed the Ministry of the Environment in writing in its letter of 3 October 2012 that the prosecution of Norwegian watercraft drivers is unheard of and must be stopped. The first person who was convicted of watercraft driving this summer has to make an appeal in Agder Law on Lawyers on 5 March, despite the fact that ESA is crystal clear that the driver has not done anything unlawful. How long does the Council of State consider that Norwegian authorities should continue to enforce legislation contrary to the ESA opinion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e583	I would first like to point out that individual cases in criminal matters are under the jurisdiction of the prosecutor, which is rented by the Riksadvokat. In these individual cases, the Board of Appeal is not subject to instructions from political authorities, nor is it reported to them on the handling of individual cases or on the assessments of decisions taken by the Board of Appeal. Political powers will therefore have neither formal nor actual basis for intervention in individual matters or influence their handling, and I would like to add – and it is. According to Småboova § 40 third paragraph, cf. the first paragraph is the use of watercraft forbidden. The size was banned in 2000, especially in order to avoid noise and pollution and damage to animal and plant life. According to the fourth paragraph of Paragraph 40, the municipality may by regulation make exceptions to the prohibition as long as the protection of the environment or safety does not require otherwise. Special regulations have been provided for which areas cannot be opened for the use of watercraft. The Ministry of the Environment has sent a hearing proposal for a change in the rules for the use of watercraft. The proposal removes the general ban, but does not allow the use of watercraft in a nearby belt. In these areas, low-speed running is only allowed to transport to open areas. Running is also not allowed in or near a protection zone. In letter of 15 January 2013, the Advocate General issued a new Directive for the enforcement of the prohibition against the use of watercraft on the basis of the Ministry of the Environment’s hearing proposal. The Directive provides that the prohibition on the use of watercraft is to be enforced only in specific areas. The area in which the Advocate General established enforcement is based largely corresponds to the areas proposed in the hearing proposal for the amendment of the infantry law. The reason for the proposed amendment is the particular purpose of simplifying the legislation – this is because today’s system may appear to be complicated for users, and, in addition, it is administratively demanding for municipalities. In addition, the proposal is motivated by a desire to ensure that Norwegian legislation is fully in line with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e601	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the council can't go in and instruct the councillor, and I think that's also good. In spite of everything the Ministry of the Environment is in charge and responsible for the law and its follow-up, and at least you can send clear signals to the Riksadvokat, if you think that what the Riksadvokat is doing is wrong. I would like to challenge the Council of States: it is ESA's clear and clear response in the letter of 3 October last year that it is not right for the Norwegian authorities to continue the follow-up of those who operate watercraft. It's very funny, because both Hallgeir H. Langeland, the party colleague of the state council, and Freddy de Ruiter, who is a big-time representative of one of the government parties, say that this must end now. My challenge to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take initiatives against the National Advocate to stop it until that discussion is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e610	I noticed that Hoksrud first said that he was very pleased that the Minister for the Environment or others in the government could not instruct the Attorney General. But then he still says that he would like us to send a clear and clear signal if what they are doing is stupid. I think most people would think of it as an instruction, if a councillor from Stortingen's pulpit or other places says that what the Riksadvokat is doing is stupid. So I'm not going to get involved in that, precisely because I'm a very strong fan of the principle that Hoksrud at least in principle said he was very happy about the existence. Then I can answer a little bit about the matter and what concerns ESA's letter and the treatment, because that's my responsibility. We've been through it very carefully, and it's true that there's an important reason for changing the legislation that's now been sent on the ear ring, because we saw that we can keep many of the concerns of people and nature that we're concerned about, while making a strong simplification. And we believe that will meet ESA's letter of October 3rd this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e617	Yes, I hear what the Council of State says, and he would like to hear that I challenged the Council of State to give clear signals to the councillor. I do not think it is good that we have a Riksadvokat who goes across what ESA believes is legal, and this is a legal product. Just like a regular boat, watercrafts are to define in the same way. Then you should give a clear message to the National Attorney that you are now in a minefield, and that you are actually interested in something that is not legal. ESA has clearly informed that this is illegal. I think it's strange that the Council of States can't make sure to follow up on this. I expect him to follow it up because his own party colleague, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Freddy de Ruiter, from the Workers' Party, both big-time representatives, have asked the Council of State to stop what is now about to happen. It's going to be exciting to look at the outcome from the law that's likely to come in a short time, and see what it actually leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e622	I didn't hesitate, at least I didn't mean to hustle. I actually went only very briefly through the principle underlying the liberal state of law. That being said, I can say that it is important that we now have a code that is clear. That's why I did these changes quite quickly after ESA's letter. There is no doubt that there are significant changes from the current situation, if agreed and when it will come into force, which will provide a significant opening for the use of watercraft in Norway in large areas that will be easily accessible. I think many of those who run watercraft will be happy for that. At the same time, I'm very busy protecting areas near land, where bathers, cabin people and others like to have them away, and we're going to protect important nature values. There I thought we got a good balance, and I look forward to it coming into force and working. I have a good hope that it will be within the framework of what ESA can approve.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e633	I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The situation in Afghanistan remains very challenging. Several countries are in the process of bringing down forces, and a new presidential election is approaching. The implementation of the presidential elections will be very important for the Afghans and all the countries involved in Afghanistan. The way in which the choice is made will be a test of how far the country has come and whether the fundamental rights of the individual have a real value. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see as the main challenge for the forthcoming elections?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e642	The representative of Ellingsen points to a very central point when he draws up the significance of the presidential election in Afghanistan in April next year. The choice will be an important milestone for the political development of the country. Norway and many others in the international community have a clear expectation that the forthcoming elections in Afghanistan will take place in an open and democratic way. This was one of the messages we sent to President Karzai when he was in Norway a short time ago, and where the strategic partnership agreement between our two countries was signed. The presidential election on 5 April will be the fifth election since 2001. There will also be elections to the provincial councils the same day and parliamentary elections the following year, in 2015. Overall, this means that Afghanistan has now set up a process of choice at all levels over the next few years. It's a positive development. Afghan authorities are responsible for the implementation of the elections. They committed themselves at last year's Tokyo conference to holding credible, inclusive and open elections based on a robust framework. We see signs that they take this responsibility. Firstly, the Afghan Electoral Commission has begun preparations for the presidential elections earlier than usual. It is also our clear impression that the Electoral Commission is competent and actively working on the preparations. This includes preventive measures and strengthening the mechanisms to reduce the possibility of electoral fraud. Secondly, we see that the opposition and civil society are active drivers of an inclusive and credible presidential election. The fact that the authorities and the Electoral Commission are thus placed in charge is a positive development that testifies to a political maturing. At the same time, the choice is linked to significant challenges. The implementation of the elections includes, inter alia: depending on the adoption by the national Parliament of two central laws. These laws are waiting. However, the main challenge for the implementation of a choice covering all parts of Afghanistan is the current safety situation. It is still serious and will affect the turnout. Opening up polling facilities in parts of the country may be difficult and many will be able to stay at home easily because of insecurity. An additional problem is that the uncertainty is greatest in the south and east, i.e. where most pashtuners live. It can create a certain bias in who gets to the ballot boxes. An inclusive and legitimate choice requires broad participation of all ethnic groups. It is necessary to facilitate the widest possible participation of women. I would also like to remind you of the region of Afghanistan: Afghanistan is located between Iran, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, China and Pakistan. It is not all the countries that appear to be well-established democracies yet. In this way, Afghanistan has actually made significant progress in a regional context. Although the presidential election is an Afghan responsibility, it is important that the international community supports the preparations for elections. Norway does so, among other things. through an active dialogue with the authorities and with Norwegian financial assistance to the United Nations Election Commission in connection with the elections. We're going to follow this up in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e665	I first thank the Foreign Minister for the answer and at the same time for his commitment as both Minister of Defence and Minister of Foreign Affairs to the situation in Afghanistan. I think Afghanistan needs all sorts of help on the way. In this way, Norway is not a threat, but in fact an opportunity to contribute. Nevertheless, I would like to hear what the Foreign Minister thinks about Karzai's role as President. It is true that the President should have a role in laying the leadership, how the rest of society should work. One of the challenges that has been in Afghanistan, which is still there, and perhaps is increasing, is corruption. That's why I want to hear what the Foreign Minister thinks about Karzai's role – I'm not going to mention Karzai's family – in combating corruption in Afghanistan. And if the Foreign Minister could venture to say something about the balance of power between Parliament and the President, and what opportunities and limitations there are, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e672	I thank the representative Ellingen again for the important questions. Of course, the President of the country has a special responsibility for everything that is happening, also to work for an anti-corruption culture in the country. We support it by reminding him of it, at the latest in the partnership agreement, but of course also to base it on our own assistance. We have held back money on several occasions, including: from the LOTFA after UNDP revealed that there had been irregularities in this way. Through both words and actions, we try to contribute to it. It would be wrong to emphasize that there is still a significant challenge in this area in Afghanistan, but at the same time it is precisely in response to strengthening the institutions, strengthening a real parliament, strengthening the possibility of being in opposition and of being independent in the media. All experience suggests that this is the way to tackle these kinds of challenges, and it is going to be high on the agenda even in the years that come after the actual ISAF operation ends and we are left in a more aid role in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e681	I thank the Foreign Minister again for the answer. I think it is important to have a clear focus on it and to make clear demands and expectations for the recipient. In his first reply today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, in view of the presidential elections, that it is important that the presidential elections be conducted in a transparent and democratic manner. Does it mean, then, that the Foreign Minister and the government can consider reducing aid if they do not see what they expect and want to achieve in the future? There will be a clear political signal from Norway, at least if you see the country developing in the wrong direction. Is it a strategy that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is considering?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e688	This is a theme of the strategic partnership agreement we have concluded. There we confirmed our previous commitments on a significant level of assistance up to 2017 – it is not said that we are ending in 2018, but then we are making new decisions – and we also stated that these appropriations require the Afghan authorities to do what they should in terms of societal development in general, but also in terms of anti-corruption measures and good governance. Obviously, it only makes sense to give this money if they find out what they are going to do and if they contribute to a constructive development in the country. So it's really embedded in our strategic cooperation. I think that when we're a solid giver, but also have clear demands, we'll be more able to influence this than if we just meant something without doing anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e699	‘The Maritime Protection Agency, SHV, needs real maritime capabilities in the form of multi-use vessels in order to operate as intended and to be a tangible resource. However, there are still signs that the material plan for SHV is not being implemented. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the government’s leadership on the planned ship structure of the SHV is implemented?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e706	Home Security has a nationwide responsibility with primary duties related to watchkeeping and security of key military and civil objects. A significant improvement in the quality of Heimevernet has been achieved in recent years. This forms the basis for the continued development of the structure with an increased focus on watchkeeping and security capabilities and support to society, if necessary. As explained in the long-term plan of defence, the command structure of the Sjöheimewert is terminated. In future, the tactical management of the Sjöheimewertel will be provided by the territorial district losses. This is already the case for Land and Air Home Protection. The long-term defence plan focuses on increasing the ability of Sjöheimewert to perform operational tasks through the use of smaller vessels for object protection and local assignment. The major vessels of the Reine class, previously disposed of by the Sjöheimewert, have therefore been transferred for other appropriate use in the Marine and Coast Guard. Following the treatment of the long-term plan by Stortingen, the Inspector-General of the Home Office last autumn, on behalf of the Head of Defence, has worked to develop an operational concept for the Sjöheimewert. The draft concept is now under assessment in the Defence Staff. As soon as this is approved by the Chief of Defense, it will form the basis for further development of the overall material structure of Home Security. The Sjöheimewert currently operates six smaller multi-use vessels of the so-called Harek and Gyda classes. In view of the age and technical status of these vessels, the Defence Department has commissioned the Ministry of Defence to draw up project documentation both for the upgrading of these multi-use vessels and for the acquisition of a new Shetland-class multi-use vessel. Specifications have also been developed for a number of smaller and simpler boats to the maritime forces and maritime protection areas. As soon as an approved operational concept for the Sjöheimewertel is available, the Ministry of Defence will decide on the extent of material investment to the Sjöheimewertel, including the continuation of multi-use vessels. However, it is important to look at the entire investment and operational portfolio of Home Protection in order to ensure sustainable solutions. A comprehensive clarification in this context is expected during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e719	These multipurpose boats are a project that according to the information we have is stopped. So that means you don't go on with the discussion this spring, but you've just stopped this project. There is something quite different, as the Minister of Defence also says, than these smaller vessels, the small boats, which is a new project that can solve tasks other than multi-purpose vessels. What is a bit funny about the matter is that both the letter of implementation for the defence sector, dated 28 June 2012, i.e. fourteen days after the decision of the long-term plan in Stortinget, and the Chief of Operational Transfers of FOH to Home Protection on 17 January 2013, seem to assume that Sjöheimeverterung should be equipped with multi-use boats, just in order to be able to perform missions in the spectrum set up by the Sjöheimeverterung. The question is therefore: why not continue with this multi-use boat project, which is now in both a number and a state that requires them to actually become more and more new?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e728	That was exactly what I was trying to explain. We are looking at both an upgrade of the vessels that are today and an acquisition of a new so-called Shetland-class multi-use vessel, but the assessments here are in the Defence Staff. As soon as we get this to the Department, we will take a stand on that concept and the investment proposals that the head of defence will then come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e733	Based on the information available to us, the Inspector-General for the Protection of Home Affairs has announced that it will force changes, precisely because this one multi-purpose project has been stopped. So it's not waiting or under assessment, but it's just stopped. The only thing to go on with is the question of these little boats, which are boats up to 15 meters in length, and which have a completely different operating capacity than the multipurpose vessels. If that is the case, it is by no means a big point to wait for this investigation of the full ship structure, because perhaps the most important project, which can help the Sjöheimewert to solve tasks that they have received from Chief FOH and which are the basis of the letters of implementation, related to the lifting of sovereignty, monitoring, reporting, etc., has already been stopped. Small boats do not have that range – multi-use vessels are required to perform those tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e740	I can only repeat what I have said: it is working on both a project documentation for upgrading the Haarek and Gyda classes of multi-use vessels and for acquiring a new Shetland-class multi-use vessel. Then I fully agree with the representative that it is important that the Sjöheimewert has sufficient vessels and the vessels they need. I believe that the recommendation on the operational structure also for the Heimevertet and the Sjöheimeverte must come from the head of defence. We haven't got it yet, we're waiting for it in the department. Once we get it, we'll decide on this project. I'm not aware that it's stopped. It just didn't come out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e751	‘A person has been on redundancy pay for more than four years. During this period, there has been little, i.e. almost no contact with the local Nav office. He has tried repeatedly to get himself able to meet. Not until he hires a lawyer, a meeting is held. Then one came two years into the work clearance. Due to poor personal chemistry, he tries to replace the Nav office without luck, and the matter still stands, after over four years, on site resting. What does the Council of State think about this kind of matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e758	The question relates to a beneficiary of redundancy benefits who, during a period of four years, is allegedly not to have received the follow-up he needs. This is not acceptable. Recipients of redundancy pay shall have a schedule of activities. The activity plan is designed on the basis of a needs and performance assessment. This plan specifies, inter alia: the frequency and content of the follow-up work. Beneficiaries of redundancy benefits may have very different work barriers and very different follow-up needs. This means that some activity plans may focus on treatment, while others are more work-oriented. However, there is a minimum requirement that recipients be followed up every six months. An important purpose of the follow-up is to ensure that the activity plan is at all times adapted to the needs and opportunities of users. This means that users should be able to contact the Nav Office on their own initiative. It is desirable that users contact the case handler quickly. This is not always possible. In this case, the user shall be contacted by the Nav Office within 48 hours. Failure of these procedures shall be addressed by the management of the Nav Office. In the case to which the representative refers, it is also clear that the user wants to switch the Nav office. In such cases, the user may address the county office concerned. The user has no right to change offices, but Nav has in practice a long way to meet these types of requests. Another option is to ask the management of the Nav office to change the case handler. If the user believes that the case is not resolved in an acceptable way, it is possible to promote a formal complaint on the agency's service to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e769	I thank you so much for the answer, and I am very pleased that the Council of State was very clear and clear that this is not acceptable. At this Nav office, there's a minimum crew, i.e. that there are three case handlers, and it is clear that when we are so different, the personal chemistry does not always match. The person concerned has on several occasions actually tried to change the Nav office. The lawyer is also inside the image in connection with it. But it's pretty bad that one has to use a lawyer to get it help one quite clearly needs. What should one do? Who's gonna take that bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e776	It is possible to contact the Nav County Office, which may be appropriate if the user has not had satisfactory contact with the local Nav Office. It is also possible to make an enquiry and promote a service complaint to the Nav Board of Appeal. They have received several complaints from people who are on redundancy pay. In this case, it will be one of two appropriate instances to contact this user.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e781	I thank you again for your answer. I'll go over to the last Nav report, no. 1/2013. The report shows that many people who go on redundancy pay are going to be in the scheme for a very long time. After one year, it's only 25 pst. which has left, and after 900 days, it is 60 pst. That goes out. 40 pst. will remain in existence. At the same time, the transition to disability benefit increases markedly after spending one and a half years on redundancy money. One sees that if you go a long time on redundancy money, there is a great chance that you won't get back into work. What will the Council of States do to ensure that they are given a different opportunity, so that they do not go into disrepute?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e790	The most important thing is more personal follow-up, whether it's from the Nav office, it's from a rehab company, or it's about rehabilitation. We see that a good part of those who were previously on temporary disability benefits, now pass into disability benefits. It represents an increase that may be expected, for this scheme did not function properly and was a waiting room until a durable income hedge was provided. On the other hand, what I have great faith in is the new disability benefit scheme, which makes it possible to work more without one being afraid to lose the disability benefit. It will be an action that will do what is important for us to achieve as a goal: that many of those who are sick today can work something. Today it's 80 pst. Which is 100 pst. not carried out. We have to do the same thing here as we've done in terms of sick pay: working a little bit is better than being completely out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e801	‘At the Nav meeting on 31 January 2013 with Focus on Your Health, it was said that they would buy 30 places for work-oriented rehabilitation, approximately at the level of 2012. The result is eight purchased places. This is not predictable and very demanding to deal with both users and providers. Can the Council of State ensure that the offer is large enough for job-oriented rehabilitation and that providers have longer and more predictable contracts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e808	The representative asks about one of the labour-oriented measures in the action spectrum of the Working and Welfare Act. The representative asked a similar question earlier this year for a written answer, which I have answered. Work-oriented rehabilitation is one of several ways of getting sick back to work. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is responsible for the regular provision of rehabilitation services in the healthcare sector, including occupational rehabilitation. In addition, labour-oriented rehabilitation is included as one of several measures under the Rapid Rehabilitation Scheme, which was established in 2007. The purpose of the scheme is to reduce sick leave and the funds are allocated between the regional health establishments and the State of Employment and Welfare. For 2013, it is set at 200 million. kr to the Employment and Welfare Seat for the purchase of Faster Retromeasurements. Work-oriented rehabilitation is one of several measures under this scheme, and the Labour and Welfare Act has concluded agreements with suppliers throughout the country. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare allocates funds and activity frameworks for labour-oriented actions to the counties. The use and prioritisation of funds is done locally — I think it is important — based on the needs of the labour market and the needs of users. It is users' needs that are the most important thing for what places you buy. This determines the scope of the various measures, including occupational rehabilitation. Individual counties enter into contracts with suppliers in the field of occupational rehabilitation. According to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, Nav Østfold has clarified that they cannot guarantee that a certain number of places are ordered, as is also apparent from the contract documents. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare states that the agreement between Nav Østfold and Focus on Your Health is in line with the directorate’s leadership that the agreements in the field of Work-related Rehabilitation – the day-to-day offer should be of two years’ duration, with the possibility of a one-year extension. I agree that predictability is important and that it should be emphasised. At the same time, the duration and flexibility of the agreements must also take into account the possibility of assessing other suppliers, with a view to what is most important: the best possible offer to users.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e823	I am well aware of the division of labour in terms of measures to get people back to work, and also the distribution among different departments. The question that comes in this questionnaire is a direct follow-up to a written question that I had to the Council of State last week. So the conclusion is that the government doesn't have an overview of how many and who need what type of work-oriented rehabilitation. So the historical data about who got it is a matter of course, you have an overview of it, but then there is a reason to ask whether the government is dealing with actions in the blind in terms of capacity and quality. For these institutions, which are often private, uncertainty and unforeseeability are demanding – including for users. Nav makes agreements on behalf of the public, on behalf of us as big communities. As for Focus on Your Health as one example of a private institution just as interested in doing good work as nonprofit institutions, they had 50 places in 2011 and 30 places in 2012, and they were told that it would be the same for 2013 – but the result is eight places.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e830	Private providers offer a very good offer to Nav, but what is at the centre when Nav buys services is what users need – not least the growing quality requirements. It must be the leading for which providers Nav buy services from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e835	No questions have been asked about the quality of the offer made by this institution, and it is such that labour rehabilitation providers have to guarantee a relatively high capacity, while the grantor has no delivery obligation. It is hopeless, it seems disrespectful, and it merges into the range of this kind of unforeseeableness that we see in other areas, including the government’s management of drug institutions — or other types of action. In principle, this means that a supplier must set up with perhaps ten annual works, guaranteed quality, but without a corresponding guarantee from one year to the next. And I repeat: the Council's answer to a written question in the past is that you can say who got, and how many got, but you have no idea who needs different offers in labour-oriented rehabilitation to get back to work and to avoid getting into a disability queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e842	We don't, because this is about people. It is not that you have a delivery obligation for those who offer measures, because it is about the needs of these people to get back to work. We don't have a complete overview today of all the people who need different types of action tomorrow, next year or the year after. What I think is important is that the people who need help to get back to work are very different. That's why it's so important that it's Nav Eastfold who decides this, and it's not the government that makes centralist plans. It won't be in line with what's important for Nav, that's putting users and people's needs in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e853	‘Old municipalities have many deaf inhabitants in relation to population. Studies show that two full-time interpreters are needed to meet the needs of each family. Today, interpreters are offered approx. two days a week and then on application. What does the Council of State think can be done to ensure that the interpreting service can be satisfactory for the deaf in Ål?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e860	Since the establishment of Ål Folkehöchskole and the course centre for deaf people in 1974, the municipality has had more deaf people and sign language users than the average in Norwegian municipalities. The responsibility for providing a satisfactory interpretation to deaf sign-language users lies with several instances. The Employment and Welfare Unit manages deaf interpreters through its interpreter service. The seat of employment and welfare is responsible for covering interpretation in everyday life, in education and in the workplace. In addition, the agency's responsibility includes providing the interpreting service itself to other bodies, which are responsible for paying for the service under sectoral legislation. Eel municipality is responsible for paying for interpreting services where residents address municipalities in connection with specific cases. In addition, according to the Training Act, the municipality is responsible for interpretation in kindergarten and in primary and secondary schools. The responsibility for interpreting for secondary and secondary school students lies with the county municipality. As can be seen, there are several actors responsible for interpreting in a municipality, but in common, the service itself is initially offered by the Employment and Welfare Act. As mentioned, Ål is a municipality in a special position as regards the need for interpreters. Attempts have been made to get interpreters to live in Ål to meet the specific need – both by Ål Folkehojskool and by the Employment and Welfare Act. This has not worked. Due to the special situation in the municipality of Ål, the Employment and Welfare Act has already established specific arrangements to meet this need. Nav Toolcenter Buskerud sends two interpreters every week for two days to Ål to increase accessibility. In addition, the Auxiliary Centre provides interpreting services in the usual way after regular ordering. A long route between interpreters and users is a general challenge, but there is also an enhanced system in place. After I get information from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, this system that is established works well. There are no concrete plans to extend the scope of the specific arrangements, as this could go beyond the interpretation service elsewhere. My answer is related to the responsibility of the State of Labour and Welfare. I am not aware of any other measures taken by the municipality and the county council within their areas of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e875	I thank you for your answer. All the inhabitants of Ål Municipality are in a special position, precisely because we have so many who are deaf. In 2009, Ål City Council took a decision in principle to cover all the administrative costs of having two interpreters stationed at the Service Square. This was not possible – not because we did not employ anyone who wanted to work in the interpreting service, but because Nav Drammen did not have the opportunity to start any funds. Wouldn't it be a very good idea to have such a -- let's call it -- little splinter layers between a municipality and Nav just to get interpreters stationed in the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e884	It is Nav who is responsible for providing interpreters, but the funding is distributed according to where the deaf are. When they're at school, there's someone who pays, and then it's paid in other areas by Nav. I'm not a member of a new distribution. What's the challenge here is to get recruit interpreters to Ål. We have to keep working for that. There is a lack of interpreters who are the most important problem here, not necessarily funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e891	This is usually covered upon application for popular protection. Being able to cover interpreters stationed in Ål should just as well be an opportunity, even though the funds are covered by several different agencies. Similarly, I believe that it should be the case that there is a need for an interpreter that is essential for the funds to be put into operation – not the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e898	It is the need to govern, and therefore special arrangements are also in place for eels to get people who have interpreting training to travel to Eel two days a week. But the most important contribution would be if someone with interpretation training could move to Ål. So if anyone with interpreting training wants to go to a municipality with a very good cultural offer – as I know from my time as Minister of Culture – with a very good environment and with a very nice nature, then move to Ål! There is a need for their competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e909	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘Refer to TV 2 news headlines on 19 February. where it appears that the leader of the extreme Islamist group the Ummah of the Prophet receives in excess of 19 000 kroner from Nav. Will the Council of States ensure that these payments cease as soon as possible, and will the Council of States ensure that legislation is in place to prevent the payment of payments to persons with extreme affiliations who condemn and act against Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e918	The Social Security Act regulates a number of benefits. In order to be entitled to a daily allowance, a number of conditions are laid down. This applies, inter alia, to: If you are a member of the population, you have a stay in Norway, a loss of work and income, and a real jobseeker, i.e. active job seeker, and willing to take any job. If the conditions are met, daily allowances shall be granted regardless of any objectionable opinions. Applications may not be rejected and ongoing payments cannot be stopped on the basis of political or religious attitudes, including belonging to extreme environments expressing critical, even hostile, attitudes. Associations with organisations can only affect the right to a daily allowance if applicants for a daily allowance or beneficiaries are not available for the labour market because they are too busy with tasks other than seeking a job, because then they are no longer considered as active job seekers. Every 14 days, each beneficiary of daily pay sends an e-message or a message card to the Employment and Welfare Unit, providing information to justify payment and verification of continued compliance with the terms and conditions of the daily allowance. By means of checks and general follow-up, a large part of the daily allowance recipients are controlled by the Employment and Welfare Unit. Reimbursements received in breach of the conditions are required. Abuse may lead to exclusion or to the transmission of the case to the police for criminal prosecution. Other legislation, such as the Penal Code, also applies to persons who come with threats, hateful statements, who are involved in violent acts, etc. There appears to be little time to promote legislative proposals that exclude people with special attitudes or associated with particular environments from what is our welfare performance. Such rules conflict with one of the most important things in our society, freedom of expression. So you're working yourself out of cash. What kind of opinions you have, whether it's extreme religious or Nazi attitudes, whether you support North Korea or apartheid policy in South Africa, doesn't judge Nav. Such a society doesn't want me either. In this case, as in other cases, I assume that Nav checks that the conditions for the benefit are met and that any abuse is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e931	The Council of State clearly says that she will not make changes that prevent welfare payments to people we are talking about in these cases – people who have said actively and openly that they want to act, encourage war acts against our society – and that they should be entitled to our welfare benefits. That the Council of State thinks it's completely legitimate, quite right, quite ok – that's what I think is quite remarkable, in order to be clear and clear about it. Based on the information I have also received from the media, we are not just talking about a single case, we are talking about more people who belong to the same organisation and who receive benefits. My supplementary question will then be: will the Council of State actively question the number of members of this grouping who receive benefits and will it actively ensure that the performance conditions are met?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e938	If you receive a lump sum or benefit from a Nav and do not require it, i.e. actively applying for a job, you can be deprived of these benefits. And if you don't meet for action, you also have to eliminate benefits. Here we're going to be strict. Why is it that the representative Eriksson wants to focus exclusively on people with religious beliefs – who neither the representative nor I like in any way, and who both of us actively distance themselves from? There are people who receive benefits from Nav, who are Nazis, who have cruel right-wing extreme attitudes. Is it the case that the representative Eriksson wants Nav to enter and make political prior approval of who is to receive benefits? It is contrary to what I believe about our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e945	In the Questionnaire, the representative is asking questions to the Council of State, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e948	Once again, I think it is alarming that the Council of State does not answer the question, and that the Council of State does not actively want to make sure that they meet the conditions. You just assume that that's the case. And given that this person, in this case, is a leader of a large organization, I think he spends a lot of time on that organization. The trueness of his job search can always be discussed. I am also aware of the regulation on daily allowances, section 4-4, which says something about when you are entitled to a daily allowance in relation to unpaid work. I would like to point out that it concerns activities such as helping with the event, the flea market and sales of lotteries. I can't quite imagine that this organisation is running neither a flea market nor a sold-out business. Does the Council of State understand that this is unreasonable? Can the Council of State explain in simple words why it is right to pay welfare benefits to people who actively encourage acts of war against Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e955	Reimbursements are paid when you have earned the right to do so, no matter what kind of bad opinions you have. What is important is that if you use well-being services not to seek work but to engage in other activities, you should be deprived of these benefits. This is the law of a society in which we do not examine people's political attitudes until we pay welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e966	I am pleased to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘A recent report from the State Road Administration shows that it will cost between 45 and 75 billion. to remove the due date and make the necessary upgrades to the county road network. The maintenance run affects both accessibility and road safety. At the same time, it is expensive to make roads so poor that extensive action is needed until later in order to restore roads. If the Council of State acknowledges the findings of the report, the Council of State agrees with the description given, and what will the Council of State do to stop the expiry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e975	First of all, let me stress that I think it is important that we have a debate on transport that is not just about building a four-field road, but about caring for the road capital we have already built. That is why I consider this an important question. The report presented by the State Road Administration in consultation with the county councils on the maturity is part of the basis for the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. Analysis by the State Road Service shows that there is a high cost of removing the decay both on county roads and on national roads. A similar analysis has been carried out of the maturities of highways. I believe it is valuable that a comprehensive monitoring of the maturity has now been presented also on the county road network. This is a good basis both for county priorities and for the notification of the national transport plan. Based on the previous monitoring, in its proposal for NTP 2014-2023, the authorities pointed out that there is a high need for action on bridges, tunnels and ferries on the county road network. Because the need is so extensive and so varied — and there is also a wide variation between county municipalities — the transport modes proposed that a separate programme for the rehabilitation of bridges, tunnels and ferries should be considered on the county road network. They did that in the professional recordings of the NTP. The Government, for its part, will decide on any State grants for measures to re-establish maturity on the road network in connection with the submission of the NTP. At the same time, I believe that the county councils also have a responsibility to prioritize funds to re-establish maturity within the framework grant granted to the county councils. It is the Ministry of Transport's view that the county councils take this responsibility seriously today, and we expect them to do so in the years to come. The representative Hareide asks if I acknowledge the findings of the report. I do. It's the department that ordered the report, precisely because we want this knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e990	I would like to thank you for the good answer. I mean this mapping is important. I'm busy with what the report says, that decay can negatively affect both road safety and road safety, and that it's bad economics to make road conditions so bad that it will require more extensive and more expensive measures to enable them to recover. That's why I'm happy with the three things I'm experiencing here: both that one discusses own programs related to bridges and tunnels, and also that there's going to be a holistic review of this in NTP. Clearly, the gap between what we expected when we had the administrative reform for treatment in this room four years back in time, and the major challenges we see that the county has now. So I also have a question attached to the tunnel code: can the council say anything about how she evaluates the tunnel code itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1001	As I mentioned in my first answer, it is already early in 2012 that the report on the expiration of the highways was received. Then they also had a monitoring of the maturity of tunnels, bridges and ferries on the county road network. It provided the basis for technical recommendations made by the trade unions in their NTP proposal. So now this survey is a supplement, a complementary survey of road foundations and road surfaces, equipment and environmental measures on the county roads. It has also included costs for upgrading that are necessary and reasonable to carry out at the same time as removing the maturity. The type of costs was not included earlier. This also includes measures to address the issue of meeting the tunnel safety regulation, which is a very demanding rule to deal with in a country such as Norway, where both tunnels are located on the national road network and on the county road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1008	I thank you again for your answer. Of course, safety in tunnels is important. But one has to be able to ask if one should implement that regulation also for our county roads, which, after all, has a lower ÅDT than the one for which that regulation is made. At least it has to be part of a holistic assessment. Those who represent the state here – government and mass destruction – first gave the roads to the state. So we're going to have a regulation that will increase and increase costs, and now we're going to have a report that says something about the state here. I'll ask the Council of State to include that. What I'm concerned about is that this issue needs to be dealt with thoroughly in NTP, just like the bottlenecks around our big cities. If we close up with what's being measured, the economic basis also disappears. That kind of lack of healing needs to be addressed by NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1013	I'm going to include the moments that the representative Hareide here addresses, especially with regard to the tunnel safety regulation. This is the first monitoring carried out after the administrative reform. This is why it becomes important and therefore, in my view, it should also be assessed in relation to the national transport plan. It'll be done. But in practice, I also believe that there will be variation in what will be the necessary consequences in the various states. There will also be variation related to the clean elimination of maturity, the real issue of upgrading, and compliance with regulatory requirements, as set out. the representative concerned with the subject of the tunnel safety regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1033	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1041	«A new regulation by the Government of the State of Agriculture on the granting of grants for burial has been greatly delayed. Media look-up suggests that, among other things, is due to disagreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of the Environment on ‘practical solutions to the management of land foresight associated with mining’, according to the nation.no on 12 February 2013. Can the Council of State promise that Norwegian farmers will not be required to have a new code of ancient memories that creates problems in the maintenance of existing ditches on cultivated land?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1048	Digging is a very important tool. Not least we've seen it in recent years, where there's become more and more unstable climate and a lot of rainfall. If it's bad digging, it'll be a little crop. For a farmer, therefore, it is a wise choice to dig – regardless of grant or not. We see that there is a lot of digging now, even without subsidies, but last year the government – in the context of the agricultural settlement – chose to set aside funds for ditching, because we wanted to stimulate it further. It is that when we allocate funds, we need to have a regulation on how to manage the grant. I am now working with the Minister for the Environment to make room for the design of the legislation. I am concerned that subsidies under the agricultural agreement should be targeted and effective in line with the purpose for which they are established. The size has decided to introduce grubbing-up subsidies in line with the government’s proposal to improve the ability to achieve the goal of increased food production. Therefore, it must be the main focus of the regulation for the funeral grant. The regulation will be sent to the hearing as soon as we feel that it is a law that is not too bureaucratic for the individual farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1055	In a longer article on March 3rd, farmers in Sogn and Fjordane are produced in a way that can give the impression that they almost consistently fail to report findings of ancient memories when they process cultivated land. Is it also the opinion of the Council of State that Norwegian farmers are more unreliable than others in this respect, when one considers it necessary to include in the regulation on the grant of the grubbing-up premium a notification obligation which has already been provided for in the law on cultural memories?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1062	Norwegian landowners and Norwegian farmers are in all, mainly very proud to be the administrators of a tradition and a history. If they also find historical findings on their property, it's part of the farm animals' pride. That's the rule. Then we have something called Environmental Plan Step 2, where the landowner records the memories, has his own map and has an overview of it. My impression, as it also seems as questioning has, is that Norwegian farmers in all, basically are tidy, decent and not tired of having historical memories of their property, but that they are proud of it and manage it the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1069	In a month's time, springtime starts in many places in the country. The delay in drawing up a regulation on the award of the grubbing-up premium is so great that it is unlikely that the counties will be able to deal with applications for grubbing-up work to be carried out in the spring of 2013. Many farmers are now afraid to miss out on grant funds set aside for burial in 2013. The Council of State would facilitate the payment of grants for 2013 in arrears if the grubbing-up during the first six months can be documented by, for example: photo and receipts of incurred expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1076	Now my main focus is to put the prescription in place. It can be put in place quickly, but at the same time it must be so good and usable that it does not create unnecessary work for those who are going to use the grant. When we're going to spend public money -- in this case, 100 million. kr – we need a code on how to use them. We're working on that now, and once we get it in place, we'll send it to the hearing. But in the case of the dungeon now in ours, it will be a challenge in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1085	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘How will the Council of State describe the future of Norwegian forestry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1092	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has asked me to describe the future of forestry, which I would like to do. A prerequisite for my future description will, of course, be that this government can continue its work on precisely facilitating the future even in the years ahead. I want to say that one of the most important things we've done in recent years is the improvement of forest funds that we did in the last growing-up period. The whole idea of the Forest Fund scheme is that the investments we as forest owners today are going to be a pleasure for the next generation. It shall be fiscally wise to invest in forestry. That's point one in the most forward-looking thing we've ever done. We have arranged for forest owners – e.g. Per Roar Bredvold – can make investments in his forest, from which his granddaughter gets delight, and that it is tax-effective. The second thing we've done, which is wise and important for forestry, is that we've had a much clearer commitment to transportation. One of the cost drivers of Norwegian forestry is transport. In the home state of the representative, Bredvold, I joined in and opened the launch of a bridge project: Åsta Bru. Only with the one, the new bridge, forestry said, it was possible to save over 2 million. kr annually in transport costs. Then we've also given much more grants for planting and forestry measures. But I personally don't think that's where the main challenge lies. It is in stable taxes, in that we reduce transport costs, and not least in that we are now helping to convert the industry. That's the big challenge now. We see it, among other things. in the game around Tofte that we need a complete woodworking industry, where we have profitability at all stages. If there is no provision for the pulp mill, there will also be challenges in the case-law industry. So that's the biggest challenge we're all facing. We can use the tools we have for forest funds and transport, but at the same time we need to work actively with the industry to ensure profitability and to ensure conversion so that we can take care of the amazing forest resource we have, and create new values of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1103	I thank the Council of State for the answers he had. It is not without reason that I ask this question, and I have asked some similar questions in the field of forestry in recent times. That's because we in the Progress Party are very concerned about forestry and the forestry industry. Now this government has been sitting for almost eight years, and the Central Party has had the Council of State for eight years. At the same time, a party colleague of the Minister of Agriculture, Per Olaf Lundtägen, says to Dagens Næringsliv that the industry is on a sod bed. It says a little bit about what conditions this industry has had in recent years. It hasn't gotten any better. I was visiting Tofte Industrier last week. There it might be closed. They have Swedish owners, and there are 300 jobs. But what is so important is that there are 6,000 ring-impact jobs, and a lot of this will affect the districts and the hinterland. That's what's critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1112	As the representative of Per Roar Bredvold knows well, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have responsibility for what is happening in the forest and for the measures there. Then I am very active in the whole, but my main responsibility lies there. What we have done has led to clear improvements for individual foresters in relation to what happened between 2001 and 2005. Firstly, there is stability in fiscal policy, for then the average equation was changed several times in a short period of time. As a result, some forest owners received a large-value tax return due to several changes in tax rules over a year. The other thing, as I mentioned in the past, is the improvement of the forest fund scheme, where you can reinvest in your own forest and get tax relief at the same time. You get a big tax advantage by reinvesting in your own forest. In addition, as Minister of Forest Affairs – and ministers before me – I have contributed more budget resources to the use of forest measures today than when we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1119	I would have wished that the National Council of Battle Violence Vedum had been more a forest minister than he is today, I must say. There's a lot of stuff going on on ostetoll and stuff like that. But the forest industry is great, and it affects many. It affects inland waters, but in addition it also means a great deal to coastal forest use, which is significant. I mentioned Tofte, but there are many other workplaces, e.g. the particle board plant Forestia at Kvam, which was now shut down. Now there weren't so many jobs there, but there were 34. Then it's all the ringing effects. I'm not saying the government has no strategy, but I don't think the strategy is comprehensive enough. We have to spend more resources on this, because, as I said, it's an important industry. For the hinterland it is very important. There are many jobs, many ringing effects, and if we don't have a forest industry – with everything from the timber we chop to the finished product – we get districts that aren't like them today. We get depopulation, because we don't get jobs. So the forest industry is very important, both as a job and as a district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1128	Within my territory, we have, among other things, a tree-based innovation programme on how to use trees in new ways. It is a good and sensible tool. Together with the entire government, we got a 100 million package of measures. kr in the revised national budget last year. One of the elements was how we should look cheaper. At the same time, there was a focus on industrial change. So I totally disagree with the premise that it is not an active forestry policy and an active forestry minister. I come from Hedmark, and I know incredibly well how important that industry is. The representative of Bredvold should think about when he raises the negativity around ostetoll – as the representative sees it – is that if we had not had a customs protection, we would not have had that industry either. Some of the just forest industry is completely unprotected. That's right, but it's free competition. There is no reason to put TINE's factories against forest owners' factories, because if the policies of the Progress Party had been implemented, fewer food workers would have been employed in Norway – no more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1135	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-06.ana.ud1492e1148	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
