ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e56	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Inge Johan Wohnning died suddenly palmsondag – 75 years old. Inge Wohnning was born on February 20, 1938 in Fana. After his degree in artium he took Norwegian secondary education at the University of Bergen in 1957, before he began studying theology in Oslo. He became cand.theol. in 1962 and Dr. theol. in 1971. That same year he became a professor of systematic theology at the Faculty of Theology. During the period 1985-1992, Inge Wohnning was elected Vice-Chancellor at the University of Oslo. Wages were versatile and active, and had an innumerable position in politics and society. He led, among other things: two major investigation committees on health priorities — in 1985–1987 and in 1996–1997. Inge Wohnning was elected to Stortinget from Oslo Right in 1997. Over the next 12 years, he became a central person, both within the Storing and within society. He was a keen and insightful participant in the public debate in a variety of areas. In its three periods at Stortinget, Inge Wohnning was a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Health and Care Committee – all three committees with areas of central interest in Inge Wohnning. He was President of the Nordic Council in 2003, Head of the Swedish Government's Delegation to the Nordic Council and member of the Swedish Parliament's Delegation for Relations with the European Parliament. He was the 1st Vice-Chairman in the Right from 1998 to 2002. During the period 2001–2005, Inge Wohnning was the President of Stortinget, and in 2005–2009 he became the most recent head of the team. His last task for the Storting was the management of the selection to determine the place of human rights in the Constitution. The list of Inge Wohnning's merits is impressive, but nevertheless gives far from any good image of his importance. All of us who got the pleasure of experiencing pay through his years at Stortinget know that. He was probably known for irony and sarcasm, but it was always combined with respect for others' attitudes. Inge Wohnning was an excellent intellectual and academic who combined ideological weight with the ability of practical politics. But first and foremost, he was a warm and present fellow human being. We thank Inge for his work and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e73	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Siri Hov Egg, has now taken the seat. The representative, Michael Tetzschner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e81	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Flätten, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I have been pleased to make a proposal for an insurance scheme in connection with the construction of a dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e86	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e89	On behalf of the representatives Oskar J. Grimstad, Henning Skumsvoll, Per-Willy Amundsen, Siri A. Meling, Svein Flätten and myself, I propose to establish a gas market place in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e94	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e97	I would like to make four motions for a resolution. I am delighted to promote the proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal and myself to strengthen the role of the Civil Ombudsman vis-à-vis the administration, the draft representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal and myself on the amendment to Section 6 of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Storting for administration, the extension of the time limit for complaints, the draft representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal and myself on their own legislative adviser for Stortinget, and, lastly, the draft representatives of the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and myself on the appointment of judges to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e103	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e106	I am pleased to first promote the proposal of representatives on behalf of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Laila Davøy, Borghild Tenden and myself on measures to prevent child poverty in Norway. Then I am delighted to propose an employment strategy and red tape in the health, care and care sectors on behalf of Per Arne Olsen, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Siv Jensen and myself. Finally, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Anders Anundsen, Harald T. Nesvik and myself on the initiative to remove the age limit for retirement in state companies and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e111	Laila Marie Reiertsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e114	On behalf of the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Vigdis Giltun, Per Sandberg, Harald T. Nesvik, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I would like to be delighted to present a proposal for a representative to introduce ROS and ROT tax deductions for craft and service tasks carried out in their own housing and leisure as a response to black work and social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e119	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e122	I would like to make a representative proposal from Mr Arvid Svendsen, Mr Henriette Hämdal, Mr Øyvind Håbreek and myself on measures to combat poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e127	The representative, Mr Reiten, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e130	On behalf of the representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Øyvind Håbreek, Geir Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to propose a proposal to strengthen soil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e135	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e149	There is no proposal for a debate here. That means that the first speaker, Mr Lundtegen, who is the rapporteur on the matter, has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e152	The decision of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee concerns changes to the electoral law and the municipal law. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has made proposals for changes to the electoral law and the municipal law, and these relate mainly to three areas. First, the number of men, that responsibility for the establishment and updating of the number of men is transferred to government. Furthermore, a provisional headcount will be established on 2 January of the year of the election to be used in the preparation of the elections. Finally, the date from which the men can no longer be updated is set to Saturday before the election day. As far as the prior voting is concerned, the requirement to have two voting recipients present at the time of voting shall be introduced. All ballots shall be stamped and a general rule shall be introduced in such a way that voters voting in the municipality in which they are cast shall not use the ballot box envelope but vote directly in the urn. Voting is accepted, the voter being elected to the poll and the vote is cast in the urn. The voter shall have an online connection with the number of votes cast. Derogations from this provision are proposed, in order to use the ballot box envelope, and the vote shall be subsequently approved when the voter does not have online access to the number of votes, when the electoral board has decided in exceptional cases that it should also be used for other reasons, and finally when voting in a municipality other than where the voter is cast. Furthermore, the requirement to re-paste the ballot note envelope before it is placed in the envelope envelope is introduced. The scheme applies to domestic, except Svalbard and Jan Mayen. In the case of constituencies: requirements for suitable and accessible constituencies are laid down by law. With regard to the date of submission of a list proposal, the time shall be set at 1 p.m. 12 March of the election year and the date of withdrawal of the list proposals shall be set at 12 noon on 20 April. It is proposed that the amendments relating to the date of submission and withdrawal of the list proposals be implemented at the earliest in the 2015 elections. What is also at the heart of the matter is that under the electoral law, the election day is set at a Monday. With the agreement of at least one third of the members, the Municipal Council may decide that elections shall also be held in one or more localities in the municipality on Sunday before the official election day. A Joint Committee shall support the Ministry in its efforts to facilitate the access of all electoral groups to the polling facilities and shall have the opportunity to deliver ballots without having to ask for assistance. It is clarified in the electoral law that the vote shall be ‘in both possession and available locality’. Furthermore, the Committee stressed the desirability of least possible changes in the legislation relating to the closure of elections, both in terms of the training of electoral staff and of voters. Furthermore, it is very important, in the Committee's view, that legislation is easy to understand and that voters can easily be informed of when, where and how to vote. In order to illustrate this, rules for voting in roll-call elections will be equivalent to those for election to local government and county councils. The Committee, acting collectively, concludes on this basis with the Ministry's assessment that it is fit and proper with the best possible design of the ballots. The Committee has noted that the Ministry will standardise the requirements for the format of the ballots to be used in the Grand Prix elections this year. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry has gained positive experience with electronic marking in the number of persons on the election day. While supporting this work, the Committee would stress that the transition from manual marking requires access to power and to the Internet, and that there must be emergency solutions to ensure this or take into account the possibility of the electronic system falling out. In the case of an Internet vote, this is a central part of this proposition. It started as an experiment in 2011 with 10 test municipalities. It was Bodø, Bremander, Hammerfest, Mandal, Radøy, Re, Sandnes, Tynset, Weftsn, and Ålesund. In the present proposal, it is to be extended to two municipalities. It's Fredrikstad and Larvik. In other words, while the 2011 experiment had 167 000 voting rights, it is now increasing to 250000 voting rights. It's a supplement to the ordinary paper tuning. On the last experiment, it was 72.5 pst. by those who voted in favour of the Internet. It was 28,000 who voiced on the Internet. Some of these chose to override the voice with a paper voice, and there were some voters who voted electronically several times. The evaluation showed that the voters in the experimental communities had a high level of confidence in the Internet voice and the experiment in particular. It gave increased accessibility, it was easy to understand how to vote, and people with disabilities wanted the opportunity to vote via the Internet. With regard to the continuation of the experiment, the Committee on Internet Voting disagrees in the ‘uncontrolled environment’, as it says, is in line with the principle of secret and free choice. Some believe that the principle can be respected if the Internet voting is only a supplement to paper-based voting, while others believe that voting in an uncontrolled environment is incompatible with the secret elections principle. The members of the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg and Jette F. Christensen, and the members of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, note that the Department has indicated that the researchers have said that the experiment does not provide sufficient grounds for assessing the democratic consequences of any introduction of Internet solutions as an addition to voting in their own and public premises, and are committed to continuing them. These members do not find this conclusion by researchers surprising, and will stress that after several attempts there will still be challenges related to voting through the Internet. These members notice that the department is proposing to limit further attempts to apply to municipalities located in the same state as the existing test municipalities, with the exceptions I referred to earlier in relation to the specific municipalities. With the new knowledge from these trials, it will be possible, in the view of these members, to draw a final conclusion on the suitability of Internet voting to increase the turnout, while respecting the principle of free and secret elections. These members assume that the trials on e-choices, Internet solutions, will be carried out in accordance with our international commitments for the implementation of elections. These members argue that the government implements the OSCE/ODIHR observers to follow the attempts at electronic voting, Internet voting, and that the assessment of observers is given emphasis in the evaluation of the trial, in particular to ensure that the principle of free and secret elections is followed and social pressure in the vote is avoided. The members of the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg and Jette F. Christensen, and the members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre go in to continue the experiment with the descriptions given here. I believe that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party will present their views on the matter. Finally, a question has been raised at the end of the work related to the prior tuning and counting of the batches at the choice circuit level. Today, the system is such that municipalities decide whether they will distribute the parties' pre-selection votes at the level of the constituencies. The four largest cities, Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim, report in addition to the preliminary votes at constituency level. What is done today in the vote on the pre-vote? Yes, the ballot is placed in a closed, re-pasted ballot box envelope along with the electoral card. This is then added to an envelope – i.e. the choice card is left open with the ballot box. There are several who react to this relationship in view of the principle of secret and free choice, but in such a way it is possible at the time of enumeration that one can get an overview of the number of the parties in the constituencies. The consequence of the change that is now being proposed is that when the prior voices are put straight into the urn at the polling point by pre-selection, one knows how many have voted in advance in the individual circuits, but one doesn't know what they have voted. If one were to retain the ability to count the pre-selection votes of the lots at the level of the convoy while taking into account the reactions of many that today's pre-sampling in the envelope envelope containing voting cards and closed ballots does not meet the requirements of secret and free choice, i.e. pre-sampling right in the urna, an alternative would have to have the same number of urns in the pre-sampling room as it is in the constituencies. For Oslo, this would be about 110 urns, while Bergen needed about 50 urns. This is considered inappropriate and is therefore degressive as a solution in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e190	In this case, I can fully agree with what Mr Lundtigen has said on behalf of the proposers to whom he referred. However, when I take the floor, it is to link some comments to this special that have been discussed very much in the committee, namely electronic voting in uncontrollable forms, as it is called. There is no doubt that there is a very challenging problem, and in the Workers' Party's group there is a considerable resistance to the proposal that we are nevertheless in favour of. Why do we do that? Well, we are doing it because we agree with the considerations presented by the Department and which the representative Lundtegegen has now emphasised in a good way, namely that we must now have this experiment thoroughly and properly implemented and sufficiently wide to take a concrete and factual position on whether this could become any kind of permanent arrangement linked to a future electoral system in Norway. We should have that perspective clear to us that we are only at the beginning of the use of modern electronic technology in very many areas of society, and it is very important that the democratic institutions of society are involved in that development. That is what is behind the fact that the Workers' Party's group will vote for the implementation of the project later today, however, I would say very clearly that if this trial mechanism is not now, as stated both in the proposal and by the representative Lundtigen, this can be accomplished without questioning the secret and free choice, I will already announce that it will not be possible for the Workers' Party to implement it for the future. It was also said the last time this matter was discussed quite thoroughly in Stortinget and marked it as well. I will mark it again, but with the arguments that I think the rapporteur has put forward in a factual, proper and correct way. As it appears in the proposition, we will also vote for this in this round in order to get a fully executed trial, as argued in the proposition. This is the background to the vote of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e199	As noted in the previous articles, today we are dealing with changes in the electoral law and the municipal law. I am not going to deal with all the matters that the rapporteur mentions, but I should like to make a few points. In particular, the Committee's comments discuss: the two-day choice scheme. This is a repetition of many local government debates in Norway. I would like to underline two aspects: Firstly, research cannot demonstrate a clear link between increased turnout and choice over two days. A lot of people seem to believe it, but it's not shown. Secondly, that the Progress Party joins the other batches in that it is up to each municipality to decide whether there should be elections over one or two days. I myself have been a municipal politician since 1987, and I am still a city councilman in the Drammen. I have never voted in favour of two days' election, but among my party traps there have been other assessments. Another aspect that is given attention in the proposition and in the notes is the promotion of clarification of the availability of the constituencies. I would also like to refer to the Committee's comments on electoral requirements. I would also like to stress the Committee's comments on the need for detention in dealing with changes to the laws and regulations governing elections. The procedures should be simple to understand, both in the interests of the electorate and in the interests of the voters. Below, ballots must be as simple and equal as possible to understand, and it should be easy to understand how to make corrections. Then to the central issue in the following setting: Internet options. The ministry believes that they need more attempts in this field. I am completely incomprehensible about this. Even the ministry admits that the phenomenon of family voting, as it is called, has become more widespread and admits that the phenomenon is getting better conditions with online elections. This is directly contrary to the fact that elections should be free and secret. I do not understand how two of the Workers' Party's members of the Committee – together with the SV and the Centre – have come to the conclusion that the trials will continue. I think they need a clear and concrete response to how their views are compatible with free and secret choices and to avoid social pressure on voters. The arguments put forward in the settings – and also here in the room – appear to be very thin in my view. This is underlined when you look at the comments of the representative Nybakk. The progress party has the same view in this case as we had when Stortinget treated Innst. 69 S for 2010–2011. Then promoted the Progress Party, the Right and the Left proposals for stopping attempts to cast an electronic vote outside the polling room at the 2011 elections. The question of Internet voting outside the polling room has been discussed in depth in the above-mentioned setting and in the subsequent roll-out debate. In our comments today, we have also quoted parts of the Innst. 69 S for 2010–2011. The Progress Party believes that it is a fundamental element of democracy as a form of governance to facilitate the voluntary and secret elections of citizens. We do not believe that the attempts that are now being carried on can in any way ensure that these considerations are properly taken into account. Purchases of votes were discussed in detail after the municipal elections in 2007, linked to, among other things. The choice was made in my home town of Dramam. In the case of electronic voting outside the polling room, it is obvious that the possibility of buying and selling votes and influencing citizens' choices through coercion or pressure can be simplified. Finally, I would like to refer to the setting point B, which reads: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the attempt to cast an electronic vote outside the polling stations at the 2013 elections.’ I hope that we get some of the Workers' Party representatives on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e234	Right is a follower of secret choices. That is why we are going against further attempts at electronic home voting. We have raised this matter earlier in a document 8 proposal, and we have discussed this matter in the Chamber before. Then it was Ola Borten Moe who was the rapporteur-in-chief. He said, ‘I will not spend more time than is necessary in this case. But I want to end by saying that the speeches in the committee's position, both from the majority and the minority, express a great deal of scepticism. We are right about what has been presented as the purpose of the scheme, namely that everyone should have the opportunity to vote electronically at the 2017 Grand Prix. That's something that we're not going to join in any way. I believe that if this idea, this scheme, should have any future at all within the Norwegian political system, either by local elections or by decision-making, it should be a very alarming result that emerges as a result of this attempt." As far as I can see, there has been no ‘supervisive outcome’ that suggests that these tests should be continued. The arrangement with Larvik and Fredrikstad is now being expanded. It doesn't make matters any better. The Ministry itself considers that questions can be raised about how and whether secret choice requirements can be adequately addressed by Internet voting in an uncontrolled environment. As a member of the Norwegian delegation to the OSCE PA, I sometimes participate in electoral operations abroad, and there are quite strict manuals on how this should be checked. I noticed what the representative Kolberg said – I am happy about it. He said something similar also the previous time, but there are obviously some people who are pushing hard to carry out an experiment that, in my opinion, is more of a technological experiment, driven by a project group in the Ministry of Local Affairs that is not at all schooling for the democratic principles of secret and free elections, but who are committed to getting through their technical solutions. It would have been very exciting if one had gradually received electronic voting in the polling rooms. You get it, it's natural. But having an electronic vote over the Internet does not provide a control mechanism. I think I see the OSCE PA observers going home to Fredrikstad to check out how this election is being conducted in a free and democratic way. I have little faith in that will happen, and I have little faith that it will lead to some special conclusions that this was going on in a free and independent way. The right-hand side has also gone against this in the past. We have previously obtained a remark from Professor Eivind Smith, who in his opinion concluded as follows in the setting: ‘access to electronic voting in an uncontrolled environment will be at the expense of the principle of free, secret elections. Against this background, there is reason to ask questions as to whether the proposed experiment is contrary to the applicable law, in particular legal rules on the right to free and secret elections, by which Norway is bound.’» Citizens' choices must be voluntary and secret. The attempt now to continue does not take sufficient account of this. Therefore, the Right will terminate the testing scheme with Internet voting. We hope that this is not a performance project that will be run by technocrats in the Ministry of Local Affairs, but that the will of the Storting will be thwarted. If you look at how the different representatives put up in this case, it is obvious that there is a majority in this Chamber against the type of voting to which it is put.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e255	Let me start by thanking a patient case spokesman for the work, because we have spent a lot of time on this, and even had protocol delivery in the committee on this time use. But we finally managed to achieve goals and have this debate that we have today. The case spokesperson has done well for the whole thing, so I just want to focus on what's being discussed, i.e. Internet voice. I mean, as politicians, we have a responsibility to try new things to link up with democracy all the way. I therefore think it would be wise to proceed with this attempt to gain the experience we need to see if this is something that has a future in common. We're not here today. So we have to continue this experiment, and two new cities have joined and want to join in. Then, of course, as it also says in the comment from the red-greens, we have to make sure that the OSCE and others follow this closely, so that we don't break international law. Let's reflect a little bit on the fact that these municipalities actually want this. They have asked to be involved in a trial, and they have been allowed to do so. It's for Ålesund, who's right-headed. If there was a snowmobile run or something else, the Progress Party and the Right would say that this must be allowed to decide locally. But when it comes to voting and electoral law, no, we have to override the local self-government. I thought that one should reflect a little on it when there are today multiples to move on with this attempt.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e264	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough piece of work. As the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland says, thank you also for the patience associated with this work. It has taken time, but I think it has been important that the parties have been able to spend good time on this matter. In this case, there is a proposal for several minor changes to the electoral law. The proposals relate to the roll-call and pre-voting, but also to amendments relevant to voting on the election day. Most of the changes will already take effect during the precipitation of the harvest. However, the proposals on the timing of the submission and withdrawal of lists will apply to the 2015 elections. All these are minor changes supported by the Christian People's Party. It has been common for several years for the law to be adjusted around the implementation of the elections, etc. at the forefront of a choice. This happens despite the fact that there are not so many years since there was a full review of the law in this area. As I see it, it would have been a great advantage if there were not major changes in the electoral implementation of the individual elections, both in the interests of the voters and in the interests of the electorate, who are to implement the elections properly. It is also essential that the legislation is easy to understand and that the electorate is given easy access to the necessary information on voting. The Ministry now proposes that there should be more standardised requirements for the drafting of the ballots, as it has been shown that some voters have not understood correctly what options they have to change the ballots, and that in some cases this has led to the rejection of the vote. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that the ballots and information on strengthening and cumulation are of such a nature that it cannot be misunderstood. The proposal also includes an evaluation of the previous choices, including: on the electronic voting procedure. As indicated in the opinion, it is this case on which there has been the most disagreement in the Committee. At the same time, I believe that we all agree that the basic principle of free and secret elections is something that must stand firm. Internet voice from home will have challenges that can be difficult to solve. The fact that there is no risk of influence by other family members, for example, would be almost impossible to control. I just have to say that the Christian People's Party has doubted that we do not see it appropriate to have further attempts in this regard. The advantages and disadvantages of electronic voting are, as we see it, well-lit so that it can be presented to the Storting for decision if the government so wishes. We will therefore vote to stop the attempt now at the elections in the autumn. So just a few short words about a note that relates to the OSCE's work. I've had the pleasure of being an election observer in the direction of the OSCE on several occasions, and I see that the work that the OSCE is doing is a very important work. However, how to control electronic voting in a good way based on the secret choice principle can be at least a major challenge. In this case, it is necessary to open up the possibility for OSCE election observers to come home to those who sit and vote electronically. I don't think that's going to be a reality. So we're voting against continuing this trial plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e283	Now this matter has been well explained, and I will also commend the patience of the case rapporteur. It was partly gladly assigned to him, but it began to catch us others a little at the end. But now we have things ahead of us. I'm not going to comment on all of the parts, but I want to comment on what has been the most debated, namely the possibility of having secret and free choices. Martin Kolberg thought that you couldn't have a concrete and factual position if you hadn't tried it out. I believe there are many cases where I have both a concrete and quite factual position, sail if you have not tried it out – so this too. There's a constant fear in this room that you can't keep up with technological developments. Yesterday we had the treatment of the copyright law. Well, that proves that this room isn't always able to keep up with technological developments, and maybe we're not going to have the ambition to do it in all areas either, but we're going to set some principles that we can follow in both the analogue and the digital world. Are you willing, as you were when you dealt with the copyright law yesterday, to four on the analogue requirements and move into a digital world where you don't follow the same principles as you do in the analogue world? If there's something you've really fought out in this room, a hundred years ago, there's the right to secret and free elections. I think I've illustrated it before with the following true story from my constituency, but I want to do it again: When I was going to vote for two elections ago, I arrived at my constituency in Old Town, and in front of me is an older couple, probably of the first generation who came here as immigrants in the 1970s. First, the man goes and holds passports and two pre-crossed election lists and two election cards. He goes to the bar, lays off the election cards, his and his wife's passport and the pre-crossed election lists and receives a strict correction from the chairman of the election board with clear notice that the list he has pre-crossed for his wife is to be thrown, the wife is to go into the room alone and choose her own list and come out again. The man was appalled and thought this was terribly fluent, for that was not the way he had thought it. He thought it was dreadfully fluent to be taken that way, and that it was provided that he had determined what his wife was going to vote, and spent a lot of energy telling the leader of the election board that it was not like it was related. I thought there I was, that for me, the fight against electronic voting was actually worth something right there and then. The correction made in the polling room by the older gentleman, only it was worth not going in for electronic voting. It shows how fragile this with secret and free elections is actually in our society as well. It's not just that a couple can try each other out. It's also about for some young people it might not mean much to vote. It actually means so little that you can give away your code for a beer a late night, because you don't think it's that important. Or someone can put pressure on completely different social relationships so that someone can vote what they vote for. To me, secret and free elections are a very important part of our democracy. It's not going to be hollowed out by trying to move into a digital world with completely wrong principles. The principles that we have in the analogue world, we also need to have in the digital world. I think that maybe the sad thing about this is that we now see the government carrying out a trial that I'm pretty sure there's no majority for in this room. If everyone had voted for their clear conviction, it would not have been the majority for it. One thing is that we are eroding the choices that we are now making according to this principle, the second is that we are spending a lot of money doing something that I am pretty sure will put an end to. We didn't have to do this anymore, this we could have just stopped right away. This is not going to be any of it. We would like to use computers all the way into the polls for me, but making sure that choices are secret and free is very important. Then, it's said to be someone who, because of lack of movement, gets a greater chance to vote on this. Then we need to find other measures for them. Had we used the money to make it easier for those who are disabled, or others who think it's hard to get to the polling room, to vote properly, I think it would have been a much better use of the money than this attempt, which we know it's not going to be any of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e304	I too would first like to thank Mr Lundtigen for his patience, and I do so on behalf of the Labour Party in the Committee. I am now speaking for a few brief considerations, of course, relating to the proposal for a second attempt at electronic voting outside the polling room. I would like to stress that my views are not about attempts at electronic voting as such, we need to develop that further. I am, of course, trying out electronic voting in the polling room under the supervision of a voter, and where secret elections are guaranteed. I also think it would be exciting to try out voting in high school, as I know there is discussion about here in the house, provided supervision that ensures secret choices. The principle of free and secret elections is an important cornerstone of democracy. From Stortinget we often send election observers under the direction of both the Council of Europe and the OSCE, i.e. the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to fragile states, new states, to ensure the integrity of individual voters and the right of individual voters to vote on their own conviction. We have been doing this for 20 years, for example. in Europe after the fall of the Wall and after the collapse of the Soviet Union. I believe that giving access to voting on a PC from home at the kitchen table violates this fundamental principle of democracy. Then, too, the Workers' Party's big group, by a large majority, has opposed these attempts, but has therefore been overrun. We had a debate in this room on 19 November 2010 about the previous attempt, the attempt at the municipal elections in 2011. Let me also quote from the commentator, Ola Borten Moe, in the debate: "What is to be read in the wording is that a single committee, and in particular a single assembly, has quite strong objections to the principle and the idea of e-election itself. The basic issue is whether elections are free and independent when they cannot be implemented in a controlled environment.’ Almost all speakers at that time expressed the same scepticism, both the speakers from the government parties – and we voted in favour of the trials – and the speakers from the opposition. What was made quite clear from the pulpit, as well as from several other speakers, including Martin Kolberg, was that at that time, that is, 19 November 2010, no new attempts were desired. In fact, I am very surprised that the Ministry of Local Affairs, after the previous round, chose to continue testing with voice on the PC outside the polling room. I want to show that it is the Stortinge that adopts the electoral law, and it is also the Stortinge that determines the electoral system – how people should vote and choose. It is people here who sit in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I wonder what our election observers had said about countries that Turkmenistan or Belarus had made choices from the kitchen table at home, outside the polling room and outside the control of a voter. It would have been interesting to know. I will quote from the OSCE Election Manual: «Voting by secret ballot necessites that votes mark their ballots alone, in the privacy of a secure voting boat [[...]] In our own electoral law, § 8-4 it says: ‘Voice shall be given in exclusive and unseen’. There are also clear provisions in the electoral law on the crossing of numbers, identification, etc. It is also apparent from the electoral law that, in an ambulatory vote, for example: in nursing homes and other institutions, or coming home to people – there shall be at least two votes in favour. Then the question is, are we going to send two receivers home to people who are going to vote on the PC, each time they vote? How is this going to be solved? I would also like to refer to what has been said earlier about codes. In the debate on 19 November 2010, Ministerial Council Navarsete said that ‘there is no political decision on the future of electronic voice delivery via the Internet in Norway after 2011’. So the size has not treated this after that. Nevertheless, new trials have been reported in 2013 in the proposal submitted. Let me repeat that my main objections are not in any way about electronic voting as such. That's not what we're talking about. I would have liked to have as many tests as possible, I would have said, in polling rooms or other controlled environments, but it should be possible to do so precisely in the controlled environment – not from the kitchen table or from the desk at the workplace. Let me add that there are actually countries in the world still where people are arrested to fight for the right to secret elections. In Europe, we have spent a lot of time and resources over the last 20 years securing democracy in the new states after the fall of the Berlin Wall. In addition to the OSCE and the Council of Europe, both the EU and NATO have helped to stabilise the new democracies. This year we celebrate 100 years with general voting rights for women. That right requires respect for the right of individual voters to vote on conviction. It's not just here in the country that women in some environments are put under pressure by family and community to vote in a special way. I also represent this city where this house stands, and I know very well what environments it is, how especially women – but also daughters – are influenced to vote as the family-father says they should vote. In this anniversary year, we should not delay these women to vote with someone hanging over their shoulders.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e351	Let me also thank the case rapporteur, but perhaps in particular the Committee, for an unusually high degree of patience in dealing with this matter. The surrender is as far as I can remember exposed four times. I've never experienced my husband in the few years I've been in this place. The reason for this has actually been illustrated by the Great Council today, where it has been difficult for some to come to a final conclusion. It is good that the Storting system works so that you can carry out the necessary treatment in the different batches. It is a fundamental principle to have free and secret choices. The background for this is the need to ensure democracy. So today we experience that democracy is actually being tested in this case as well. Rarely have I seen a more reluctant Martin Kolberg from this pulpit than he I saw today, and rarely can I say that I agree with every word Marit Nybakk said in the post before me. It is a challenge in a case of an electoral law that is to guarantee us free and democratic rights and free and democratic elections that a clear majority in the United Kingdom – as derived from the previous speakers – is now being overrun. I think that's what Nybakk used. A government that has the power to overrun the Stortinget is dramatic – especially in a matter like this. There is a broad consensus that home voting is not the future. Nevertheless, the scheme is now extended to one million voters. Not because the Storting insists that this be done, but because the government does. They make it easier to buy and sell votes. They make it easier for families with a strong family hierarchy to force the whole family to vote just as few will. They make it easier with so-called replay voice. And I would like to see the international observer who breaks into people's homes to investigate whether the elections they make are free and secret. This is not a progress. It's a dramatic retreat, and it's resource depletion. It's wasted time, because we have the knowledge that is necessary to say that this is not the future. We could make the decision today – and should make the decision today. We have what we need to know about that matter. After this short tirad, I want to say a couple of things about a couple of other areas. One is that by the decision we make today, we deprive the municipalities of the possibility of distributing ex-ante votes. There are different considerations to be taken in this respect. The challenge is to obtain poorer numbers and material to assess the choice potential and the changes in choice in different parts of the major cities. I have registered that several of the hearing bodies believe that it is a price that is worth paying to ensure further secret choices, and that is a balance that we are going to support today. But I think it's a bit polite when the SV's representative up here says that it is important that the municipalities are allowed to keep the freedom of choice when it comes to participating in this attempt at home voting, but they should not be allowed to choose whether they will distribute the preliminary votes on the circuit. It is not always entirely suspended by the SV representative either, in terms of freedom of choice at least. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the decision of the mandate committee from 2009. There we experienced some criticisms about how the ballots were perceived, simply because people misunderstood how to highlight their candidates. There were candidates who got a lot of irons, because there were a lot of voters who thought that by putting a cross they gave an extra voice, while at the big shot you actually deleted the candidate. That was a very important point made by the Powers Committee in 2009. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee actually repeats its content, and I hope the Council of State in its statement later today confirms that this will be corrected in 2013 so that voting in municipal elections and voting in roll-call elections will be the same, so that we avoid these misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e365	Let me begin by agreeing with the rapporteur's observations on the presentation of the law and the legislative changes, and giving tribute to the rapporteur's consideration, both in the committee and in the presentation here in the Stortingen of this issue. However, what has attracted political attention far beyond this room is the disagreement about electronic voting outside the polling room – a violation of the principle of free and secret elections. This case has been well-lit by several times the treatment, and the sad thing is that this case illustrates the Greatness of the Greatness in terms of the distribution of power between the Greatness and the Government. One would think that the Stortinget was at least clear on one thing: The Stortinget deals with questions about the choice of big business, The Stortinget deals with questions about the election relationship with the Constitution – and that this is a match. I also thought I was in good company with the representative Lundtegen in this constitutional conservative area, that with regard to the principle of free and secret elections, there is no reason to experiment or try. It is a majority in the Grand Duchy that is not only skeptical but opposed to this attempt because it is at least contrary to the principle of free and secret elections. Several have illustrated the possibilities for manipulation if this principle is not maintained. So it's not the electronics or the technology you're opposed to, but the fact that it's going on without an election venue. Of course, a voter is subjected to an incredible amount of pressure in a campaign. That is what the political parties contribute to. And that's right and fair. But one place goes the frontier. We've been used to Norway for quite a number of years, that at the moment that a voter enters the poll, you are, to use another language, ‘on your own’, and then the impact is over. There you have to give up your voice, during a certain amount of celebration, and it can happen with new technology – like for me, sometime in the future – or with the traditional method, but at least it happens without external influence, and it happens secret. This principle I thought there was broad agreement on. And that's it in the Biggest, with a couple-three exceptions that don't rock in this context by the fact that it's a majority. At the last time of treatment, there was such a degree of scepticism that any rising political ear – I repeat, any rising political person – that happened to be the Council of State at that time, and that is still so, should see that this does not have a background for continuing in government. But the government still controls the Storting, and the fact that the biggest party in the Storing has turned against this attempt, but nevertheless essentially votes for, should get any dead ear to realize that this experiment of election and voting is doing her against the will of the Storing. Anyway, it probably happens. A clearer illustration of the powerlessness of the Greatness and the need for a government with a slightly larger ear to the Greatness, one should look for a long time. This is a sad day for Stortinget if the outcome is as it has been suggested. Finally, I will ask the Council of State the following three questions, as she is the next speaker, and the Storting is the place for dialogue, not to read out the completed script. Question one: Does the Council of State feel that she has the support of the Stortinget to continue the trial from 2011, 2013 onwards? So, does she feel that she has the support of the Storting? I'm not asking you to predict any voting, but to express what support you have in Stortinget. Question two: Does she feel that this is beyond doubt – without doubt – in line with the provisions of the Constitution? It's pretty important for a government to deal with the country's constitution, you'd think. Question three: Has the government prepared something legally to ensure the access of OSCE delegates to private homes? Or, in another way, has the government prepared for the OSCE delegates to check any place where electronic voting should take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e391	I am pleased that the Committee has supported the legislative proposals proposed by the government. Important proposals are leading to increased levels of secrecy, simplification of procedures and better accessibility for voters. The most important changes are done well for by the case spokesperson. I just want to mention the new rules for previewing. Selecting a sample in your own municipality, you will now have to place your voice set directly in the urn in most circumstances, as the selector does in the selection. The voice is then approved when it is placed in the urn, and the selector is checked in an electronic man number. I agree with the Committee that it is important to ensure good access to the Internet in the polling room when one of them crosses the selector in an electronic call number. As a result, the Ministry has made it possible for municipalities, before the elections, to have tools to measure that they have good network access. And then, of course, we have good back-up routines. This is a relatively large system change. The background of the change is two divided. First, several options respond to the addition of the choice card with the voice set, as the scheme is today. Secondly, the procedure used today should be simplified with a view to a more effective resolution of the elections. It is a simplification for municipalities, it will be easier for the voters, and it will increase their confidence in the choice. It is true that for some municipalities it will have practical consequences where there are requirements for two voice recipients in case of screening. However, I believe that when the approval of voices is moved to the polling room even when the pre-construction is carried out, there must be a requirement that there are always at least two functionaries in place to ensure the correct implementation. The corresponding requirements apply to the selection procedure. I am sure that the municipalities will be able to solve the practical challenges that may arise. I have also noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry to facilitate the expansion of the staff housing system at universities, colleges, public schools and further schools in future elections. Of course, we will continue to work on that. The goal is that everyone should have good access to the polling facilities, and it is particularly important that those with difficulty in accessing the ordinary polling facilities, as well as the younger population, have good access. Then I record that there are shared views about further attempts to use the Internet-smoothing – it might be a bit mild to say. I agree that voting outside the polling room gives us some challenges when it comes to ensuring a free and secret choice. I am also aware that out-of-choice Internet smooching can initially increase the risk of undue influence and family smooching. But I think we've found good solutions, and I'll come back to that. There's reason to remember why we want to open up for Internet-smoothing attempts. For me, it has been important to facilitate increased access to the polling room for all voters. We have to take into account that not everyone actually has the ability to visit an optimist, and like that some selection groups experience obstacles when they're going to smoke in an optimist. The test carried out in 2011 must be categorized as a success. Many disabled people were able to voice alone for the first time without the help of others. It's about the dignity of many people. It gave a value that is hard to recreate in a selection room for all selections. Over 70 pst. by all those who pre-expand, used the Internet. Nine out of ten voters in the test municipalities believe that Internet smoking is a future. There are no cases of undue influence in the experimental municipalities. It is also worth noting that the voters showed a high level of confidence in the experiment. Then there is also an important requirement for the experiment to preserve the principle of free and secret choice. International recommendations and guidelines shall be followed. Only the selector himself should know what it is. And the voters must have confidence in the system. It is also worth noting that there are municipalities from all over the political landscape – at least almost – who are involved in the experiment. It's two big right-communers, it's the Christian People's Party, it's the Center Party, it's the Workers' Party and it's SV. So there's a width in the municipalities that want to participate in the experiment. Internet options shall not conflict with the principle of secret choice. In order to ensure the requirement for secret elections, we have taken into account important and necessary commitments and security measures. They are mentioned in the regulations that apply to the experiment, and built into the computer system that the selectors use to voice. These include: ensure that only the selector himself knows what he or she has voiced. The selectors themselves decide if they want to talk about the Internet or whether they want to talk about paper in the selection room, just like before. A necessary feature when opening the Internet is that the selectors have the ability to voice over the Internet as many times as they will during the entire preview period. A little moment alone is thus enough to voice again and cancel the previous voice. I would like to say that if a person monitors another person 24 hours a day for the entire period of pre-explanation, there is reason to believe that the person will also have the possibility to affect that person in case of a passing in the voice room. If you take a trip to the voice room, all the Internet voices from this selector will be cancelled. This means that if someone wants to carry, press or buy the voice to the selector, they never have a guarantee – or can manage – of what voice is actually listed. Only the selector himself knows. The researchers who evaluated the experiment go so far as to say that these statements make it not attractive to operate with this kind of behavior. They think that the secret choice principle was handled in a good way, and that there is nothing to suggest that the voters in the test municipalities were more exposed to attempts to buy voices and undue influence than voters in other municipalities. Not one single case of illegal actions, such as voice purchase or undue influence, has been known. There is reason to recall that there is no system, either paper-based or electronic, that can ensure the voice delivery is 100 percent against undue influence, voice purchase or family resolution. The representative Skei Grande pointed to a married couple in an optional room. The woman there could certainly have had the armchair in her hand saying without any of the election officials knowing what she was taking into the hatch, and what she was taking out again and leaving in the urn. We know that, too. However, we can create a selection system that makes such actions difficult, both in the selection area and when a voice is voiced from home. It is therefore important that the voters have a knowledge of why the voice should be secret, and that the voters in the polling room should also take part in the responsibility for ensuring secret choices. I don't want to underestimate that it's controversial to move the election action out of the polls and into the floors of people. At the same time, I think we have to take the research we already have seriously. Had the researchers found that we were unable to keep the principle of secret choices, I would not have recommended a new attempt. Now we have to build on the positive experiences we have gained. So I'm going in to try again at the fallout. It is important to me that we proceed slowly and carefully when we try out new ways to voice, so that we can reduce our experience and learning on the road. On the one hand, we see that increasing accessibility is a value that gives added dignity. On the other hand, we have challenges related to outside-election hearings. We need to do more research on the social aspects of Internet resolution and whether there are vulnerable groups where security mechanisms are not sufficient for them to re-examine. We also need more knowledge about the democratic effects of Internet smooching. Transparency is a central value in the selection implementation. The trial has taken this seriously from the start and has received international commendation for openness around the experiment. This rose also came from the OSCE, which observed the experiment. Their feedback has been important to ensure that a new attempt should extend even further to ensure transparency and openness. We have worked closely with the OSCE, both in the follow-up to the general election observation and after the 2011 experiment. Therefore, Norway has also used the OSCE as an example of how the reporting from the election observation should be followed up. I agree with the Committee that the election observers have an important role to play in this experiment. Therefore, we also need to increase our efforts to the autumn. In addition to the OSCE, we're going to invite election experts from the recognized Carter Center. The evaluations of these selection experts will be important to us. We will also invite the environment working with Internet choices in other countries. I'd like to remind you that we're not just in Norway doing Internet services. Recently, Iceland has decided that they will use the Internet-smooting outside the selection area at the next option, including the Internet-smooting outside the selection area. in the case of binding public vote. A few weeks ago, there was a report from the Swedish Election Law Committee, suggesting that Sweden should carry out outside-election testing at the 2018 elections. Both assume that the principle of secrecy must be upheld, and believe this is possible to achieve, even in uncontrolled environments. The Swedish Committee believes that it is a value in itself to make it easier for the voters to exercise their democratic rights, and that Internet options allow voters with reduced function to participate in the elections in the same way as other voters do. I might not be able to say it better myself. As an election minister, I think it is particularly interesting that the Swedish want to follow in our footsteps. It's going to be interesting to follow the developments in our democratic neighbouring country. After listening to the articles we have had here, I do not believe that electronic voicemail will be carried out in Norway with the first. But at some point, it'll be done. I'm also a technology optimist in this area, and when there's a threat that technology can be developed so that we're sure to keep the secret of elections and yet use new ways to exercise democracy for a new time, I'm different from both some party colleagues and others. The size determines how they will be resolved. It is not up to the Council of State to decide – this to the representative Foss’ rhetorical questions. It is the majority in Stortinget that in this case, as in other cases, decide how they will speak. I don't have a reason to believe that this is a violation of the Constitution. Then, of course, I had not brought the matter before Stortinget. The OSCE itself shall be involved in finding out how they and members of the Carter Centre can best be value observers and ensure that the system and the manner in which this resolution is issued are in line with the best in the framework of the legislation we have, both nationally and internationally. I understand that many are skeptical about this. I hear what's being said, but I still think it's right to carry out another attempt to get a comprehensive evaluation, which I think will be useful once in the future, even if it doesn't work out exactly with the very first. I think that those who come after us will have a different view of this than us who may have some years in the back and have not grown up at such a time, as our young people now have, where the electronic world is with them from their birth. Their scepticism for this I believe in time will be separation less than ours is today. Developments will continue, including in this area. I don't take secret easily – I don't take it lightly that the Storting will of course keep it in the best way – but I doubt that there are very many as 24 hours a day for several weeks to monitor others and ensure that they can't log in and give up the voice and vote what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e463	I registered that the representative Nybakk told me that the Workers' Party's group had been overrun on this issue. So I now registered that the Council of State was very clear that it is of course the big group and the Storting itself who decide how to deal with the various proposals from the government. Can I interpret the Council of State to that it is unproblematic for her if the majority of the population were to go in a different direction from that of the Council of State in the case of electronic voting?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e470	What I said is, of course, it's the big groups that decide how to vote. It is not the Council of States that joins the single big group and decides what to vote for. How the Workers' Party has it internally in its own pool must answer for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e475	The aim of changes to the electoral law is, of course, to strengthen democracy and make it easier, better, safer and safer for voters to vote and secure democracy. Our democracy is now built up so that it is the Storting that is the elected body, and the government the indirectly elected executive. Based on what the Council of State has heard from all parties – and I have seen that the Council of State has been sitting here, and I suspect that she has listened all along – there is not exactly any overwhelming support for the continued attempt at electronic voting. The council's response to that is: I've heard what you have to say, but I'm still doing what I want. Is it a democratic mindset?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e482	That's it, and it's the Storting saying decided this afternoon that decides what will be the outcome of this case, and there's discussions in the single big group that decide what the big group hears this afternoon. Then I must be allowed to say that it is produced as if this attempt were breaking with all of democracy. I would like to repeat what I said from the pulpit: If one person can monitor another 24 hours a day, at work, private – night and day – and ensure that one does not go in, and also prevent the person from going into the parlour on the election day – the latter is perhaps the easiest – then the person will also have such an impact on a person that I doubt that one could also influence by giving a list of hands and telling you to deliver it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e489	Then the President will allow the representative, Anders Anundsen, to have a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e492	This may not be a parliamentary expression, but the last statement by the Council of State is simply an expression of some naivety in relation to how some systems work. But that's not what's going to be the last question, because I think it's important to get a concrete answer to what I asked questions from the pulpit about ballots and voting methods. I just want a confirmation from the Council of State that the Council of State will follow up on what is in the position to do about this, and what the committee of powers also said to the Stortinget in 2009. The second question, I think, is a natural follow-up to the last round of the Council of State gave an answer here: How do you – and it doesn't keep answering that we should do this in cooperation with the OSCE – that we get to investigate free and secret elections when people sit at home in the living room, or at a postgame, and vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e501	To the first question, we follow it up and we're going to see how to make sure that one is clear about how to hear and not get that kind of misunderstanding. Secondly, I thought claims about post-game smoking are a downgrading of people, considering that people out there are also able to think for themselves. I don't think it's going to be post-game. There is nothing in the evaluation of previous attempts that suggests anything in that direction. We also need to be able to follow up – we have to try, we have an evaluation and we need to build on it. There is nothing there that indicates that there was abuse on the last attempt.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e509	The council says a number of times, ‘I hear what’s being said.’ I’m in doubt about that, at least to the extent that it’s what the Storting is saying. I heard her read a long script written by her own officials and researchers engaged by the department – and believe that the Stortinget is wrong, but the researchers are right. It illustrates so clearly that she misunderstands the resistance of Stortinget. It's not a technological resistance, but it's a resistance to lack of secrecy. Her example is probably entirely on the page, for a vote you can do it on the Internet from home and be sure that you are alone in the living room, but no one can check that that voice is given alone in a polling room or in a living room. There goes the difference. That's why we have choices in polls. If we didn't, we would have done it a completely different way before. So my question is also finally: on what basis, in addition to its own perception, does the Council of State believe that this is in the bargain with the Constitution? Has she obtained any opinions in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e518	In the case of the first recorded, the safety valve that is in place is that one can both shake again and go to the polling room – the one that the OSCE has put most emphasis on – that there is secrecy and that one can have secret choices. So it's important to raise it up, because it's an important element. Of course, when it comes to assessment in relation to the Constitution, we have made an assessment of it in the ministry. We had not submitted a case to the Stortinget if we believed that it was contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e525	But the Council of State is probably aware that government members frequently use the Justice Department's law department to obtain advice if you think that you might not have the best competence to do so. So even in instability cases, where the regulations of the administrative law are very clear, the law department is used. Why has it not been done in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e530	Because a foundation for doing so has not been found.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e535	Yes, that was an illustrative answer. I would like to ask another matter at the end: what significance does it have for the Council of State if the majority of the majority of the majority would agree with the motion for a resolution B to the decision to stop the experiment? Can she possibly live well with such an outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e542	Governments always live with Stortinget's decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e547	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e552	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e555	First, a few words to the last line change. When the representative Foss is so free that he says that the council reads out a long script written by officials and researchers, I have to say it's a typical sarcasm from the representative Foss, and it's not worth ending the representative's long career in big business. What I was going to say is that what we're talking about here is not a permanent change. It's a matter of continuing an Internet voice test for one choice. As the submissions have shown, it has not been easy to be the case rapporteur in this case – as several have also said, profitably. It's used very strong words. It has been used as ‘a continuation puts democracy to the test’, and as ‘it’s a sad day’. When we know that the twelve municipalities that are going to be involved in the experiment have their elected local authorities, with a number of dedicated members who have experience of it and how it should be, I have to say that the statements that have come here are a very strong assessment of the experience that these elected people have done. Because if there was something in the strong statements, one would think that it had come out in the evaluation that has been made. So here's something that's bad. The question of secret, free choice and social pressure has been a problem over all years — and will be. As the Council of State has described, and several have been inside, there are many ways in which this is done. We'll never be able to make choices without having an uncertainty about the extent to which social pressure is practiced, so that a voice is different from what is the real meaning. It is something that a continuous person has to work on to prevent. Now, what's in that proposal today in the case of pre-voting, where one ends up having the envelope that contains the ballot and election cards, is an improvement on the point where the Council of State has gone to the front to get it. So here's the constant desire to do it better and take away the social pressure, or get arrangements that make the secret choice really secret. I also think that Internet voting has given increased accessibility to people with disabilities is an argument that you can't afford. Well, it's possible to do it in other ways, but there are ways that are far more complicated, and no one here has come up with good solutions that disabled people can do it in any way. Why should we continue the experiment? Well, in order to gain wider experience and then draw a final conclusion, whether Internet voting is suitable for increasing the turnout while respecting the principle of free and secret choice. It is new in the setting that it should be implemented in accordance with our international commitments, and we invite international election observers to follow the experiment. How they choose to follow the test, I hope the representative Foss leaves to them and their assessment. That's how we're also going to monitor other countries' choices and not be instructed how that's going to happen. If you believe that this is not responsible, I expect the international electoral observers to say so. There is, however, some difference between Norway and Turkmenistan and Belarus in this matter, so this seems to me to be shooting something over the blink. The decision to which it is now addressed is to continue the experiment in 2013 and that the size based on the evaluation takes a final decision. I would like to stress that it is then natural to take a final decision on whether and how to use e-options in the future. It must be done in good time before the next elections. Finally, the representative Per-Kristian Foss challenged me about the constitutional conservatism of free and secret elections. At that point, we agree, I can assure you. But we should be able to have limited attempts to see opportunities to do it differently. If, after the limited trial, it is now proposed that it is not good, a rapid conclusion is then reached — after an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e576	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e579	There has already been an evaluation, and the Storting is aware of what is needed to know about this scheme in order to be able to make a decision right now. But the simple thing is often the best, so I'm going to challenge the representative Lundtegen on a simple yes/no question: Mr. Per Olaf Lundtegen – I think it's important to get it in the protocol, that's why the question is asked – that home voting is a possible lasting arrangement after 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e585	It may be a permanent arrangement provided that the international observers and those who have evaluated it at local level – local government representatives and others – unanimously see this as a good arrangement. I don't want to write it off, so transparency should have in terms of new solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e590	This is also in order to have it recorded: I would like to challenge the representative Lundtägen on how he believes the OSCE and other international observers should be able to make sure that, in the light of what is happening in people's living rooms, kitchens or other private spaces – after-sales or whatever it may be – a proper and proper evaluation of such a home-sponsoring system can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e595	As I said, it is the international observers who make their assessments after being presented with how the vote is to take place both in the polling room and in the vote on the Internet. They carry out the studies and assessments that they, at best, consider appropriate according to the job they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e600	In doubt, the President will allow a reply from the representative of Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e603	I just want to challenge the representative Lundteg to answer what I asked for, namely how he believes that this should be ensured, not how he leaves this to others to assess. How should this be done to ensure that the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen is satisfied with the methodology to be used by international observers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e608	I've answered that. I don't see it as my task to instruct how someone here is going to do it, it's not in line with the job you're going to do. Here, the election observers coming from international forums must do so according to their experiences and assessments in order to do a full job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e613	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e616	At the bottom of the debate that has been a bit of a principle, or at least an experimental principle, not least from the Progress Party and the Right side, when it comes to the fact that the Stortinget is now being overrun – because the Labour Party is showing that they have been overrun by Marit Nybakk holding talks about this. It is not new that the Workers' Party and the majority are overrun: when it comes to Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja, the bulk of the population is overrun. There is nothing fundamentally new in this matter. The new thing is that because of an unyielding working party, which didn't give a clear signal last November, the Labour Party is seeing that they didn't really want to do this. They should have said that in November when we had internal negotiations on this. They didn't. So it's very clear that the majority of the Stortinget is being overrun, and if Anders Anundsen comes into government, as Per-Kristian Foss has been, he knows that there's also experience that he'll get. But that's what we're going to try to avoid in the fall, of course. When you have such a high level of victory in relation to the plurality and decision taken here today, you give a very clear signal to the local municipalities, where all the parties are represented, that you do not have the confidence that they can assess this – as opposed to a snowmobile run, where everything should be determined locally. But in this case, it is not allowed to trust local government. It has to be overrun in this case, I think it is clear. And then there's a moment when the Council of State stressed in its statement, that there are some people who, by voting in this way, have to vote secretly for the first time, that is, an innovation in the perspective of which SV is concerned, that one should get more people to participate in democracy the way we want to. That is why we have also pressured against the Council of Ministers of Navarsete, fighting against voting in universities, continuing schools and public high schools. Finally, I would say that I live by the Bible: “Try all things, and hold fast to the good, ” says the Bible. Then we'll try this a little bit more, and then we'll see if it's the good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e632	I didn't really intend to ask for a reply, but I'm a little confused when a big-time representative doesn't understand the difference between having local law on whether to drive snowmobiles in the municipality and being responsible for the electoral system for the elections to the national parliament, the Stortinget. I don't understand. Does not the representative Langeland realize that when he uses this reasoning – what does it say: beats himself in the back or kicks himself on the back – will it get back quite quickly? The representative of Langeland does not want freedom of choice as to whether to allow snowmobiles to be driven by municipalities, but he wants freedom of choice in such an important area as the electoral procedure in view of elections to the national Parliament. Isn't this going to be a little bit hesitated?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e637	No, this isn't hesitated, it's Anundsen who hesitates when he doesn't see that there's no difference between this. It's pretty easy that what we're doing here is the same thing we're doing in snowmobilesack: experimentation – and then we've expanded the experiment. We do the same thing today. We have an attempt to develop local democracy via the Internet, we expand our efforts and do the same. There's no fundamental difference between this. The representative of Anundsen can experience this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e645	The President would point out that the use of the word 'doubt' for another representative is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e648	He was the one who began to hesitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e653	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e656	I didn't really intend to extend the debate significantly, but when the case-rapporteur in his last speech attacked the dignity of the representative Foss, I felt a need to comment. I find it unworthy in today's debate that we can risk adopting a proposal for which there is in no way a majority in the national Parliament. Through the debate, we have been given the real support for this proposal, namely that it is hardly supported by parties representing one in ten Norwegian voters. It is, in my view, a gigantic democratic problem. I must also say that I responded to the reply, where the Council of State says that she has not entered the Law Department to assess the relationship with the Constitution in this area. In fact, I think elections are such an important act for our democracy that of course it should have been. I think it is alarming when you admit from the pulpit of the Storting that you haven't done that follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e663	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e677	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e686	This case concerns the adjustment of the county border between East-Agder and West-Agder, as four municipalities in East-Agder have applied for a change of county affiliation. Evje and Hornnes, Birkenes, Iveland and Lillesand municipalities have applied to become part of West Agder. This is a discussion that has been going on for many years. The initiative came early in the 2000s. The background is an experience of belonging to many of the inhabitants of these municipalities of the Kristiansand region. As part of the discussion, there was also a proposal to merge the two Agder counties into one counties, or one Southern region if you like. It was decided to hold a referendum on this issue in connection with the municipal and county elections in 2011. The municipalities that have now applied for a change of county membership chose to suspend their applications at that time until the issue of county reunification was resolved. However, three of the municipalities held a referendum in 2011 on whether, in a possible refusal to join the county, the inhabitants wanted to change their country. There was a clear refusal to merge together in East Agder, although there were clear geographical differences between municipalities. In the municipalities which at the same time held a referendum on county membership, Birkenes, Iveland and Lillesand municipalities, there was a majority to seek transfer by any no. The issue of municipal borders and county membership gives rise to a strong commitment. I think that's because the question concerns people's identity. Which municipality or county you belong to can be experienced as a tangible expression for who you are. That is why there have also been high-sounding discussions, great commitment and sometimes steep fronts in this matter. To this end, the Committee has taken all its views seriously during its examination. The partitioning law regulates the issue of border adjustment between counties. The purpose of this Act is to facilitate a municipal and county division which, within the framework of a national community, can ensure a functioning local government and efficient local administration. Changes in municipal or county divisions should contribute to the creation of useful units that can provide adequate services and management to citizens and businesses. Activities shall by law be based on the principle of local involvement and the right of initiative for border changes. As indicated in the proposition, there are weighty arguments both for and against a limit adjustment. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which does not recommend the proposed limit adjustment. It's nevertheless that the reasons and emphasis of the arguments are a little different, and I'm assuming that the individual parties get into this in their contributions. The Labour Party, like the Council of State, has come to the conclusion that the sum of the disadvantages — overall — is greater than the sum of the benefits of a border adjustment. Important counter-arguments have taken into account the fact that opportunities for regional development may be weakened, that East-Agder is likely to lose a major mandate, that a loss of 18 pst. by the inhabitants would lead to small operating disadvantages and, finally, a limit adjustment could be used as a basis for several municipalities to assess their membership. The latter is isolated, not a problem, but a major conversion of the municipal structure or the county membership of a region should be assessed in an overall context and should not be piecemeal and divided. In conclusion, I would like to commend the municipalities involved for having run tidy processes and not least for having arranged for the citizens to be informed about the questions. The opinions of the citizens, as expressed by the four referendums held, are given considerable importance. However, it becomes challenging when, on the one hand, we have a referendum that says a clear no to coup d'état, and, on the other hand, municipally demarcated referendums recommending a border adjustment. In this case, I and the others who have worked with it have met a lot of people. There's one thing I feel they have in common: they're all concerned with the South and the Agder states as a region and the opportunities that lie there. I therefore hope – and believe – that there are many in South Africa who are continuing to develop their region after today, with the pride, the strong identity and the commitment we have met in this matter. That is what will mark the further development of the region, not the strong contradictions and the strong, steep fronts that we have seen in this matter at times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e707	The spokesman, Eirik Sivertsen, has now spoken. Many of the considerations that the case-speaker makes in this matter are also agreed on by the Progress Party, but we still have a completely different conclusion from the other parties. This is a process that has been going on for many years. Those are thoughtful applications. There are democratic choices that have been made, and there is no reason to believe that this is not something that the inhabitants have thought thoroughly through and come to a conclusion. That's why we think that there's no need to make this case more complicated than it needs to be. So there are four municipalities that have applied for a transition from East-Agder to West-Agder. Three of these municipalities, Iveland, Birkenes and Lillesand, have had a referendum on this, and the people have said clearly yes: they want to change the counties from East-Agder to West-Agder. So they'd rather be connected to Kristiansand than to Arendal. It has been a democratic, long-term process. One has had a democratic choice where a large number in these three municipalities have said yes. We in the Progress Party respect democracy, and we respect democratic elections and processes. We think it's a little sad that the other parties ignore it. When it comes to the last municipality that has applied to replace the county, Evje and the municipality of Hornne, they have not had a referendum. We in the Progress Party have said that we will respect a People's Liberation regardless of the outcome. We're asking Evje and Hornnes to have such a people's retreat. If it is, we will respect it, and if it is, of course, we will respect it as well. So it's about democracy. So it's about democracy, and about people's will, which is very important for the Progress Party, and which we saw very high, and we thought this should be fully respected, and so we can't see any good arguments against it. The argument that's being used is that East-Agder County is being weighed down. But what we think is an irrelevant argument, we didn't think it mattered. In any case, the party of progress will liquidate the county councils as a self-employed, administrative and political level. And we did indeed think that this case illustrates that this is an unnecessary level of government, which is demeaning, and which is complicated, and which creates problems both in this matter and in many other matters. That's why we have suggested that one respect the will of the people of these three municipalities that have had genocide, and that we call on Evje and Hornne's municipalities to also have a genocide. In addition, we propose that the Stortinget ask the government to start work on the winding up of the county councils as a self-employed, administrative and political level. Finally, I would like to put forward these proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e726	Then the representative Gjermund Hagesetter has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e729	The right considers that this case again raises the debate on whether the municipal and county structures of today are optimal. Limits that were set may not be as natural today as they were when they were set. The municipalities in question point out that the natural commuting pattern is moving in the direction of Kristiansand, among other things. through the report ‘Changed County Association for Evje and Hornnes, Birkenes, Iveland and Lillesand municipalities? An impact assessment’, which showed that the identity of the inhabitants follows the same pattern. Furthermore, we point out that one should ensure that the total resources and opportunities of the Aggregates are optimally used through good solutions in larger municipalities than at present, in natural housing and work regions, which can allow for common national efforts. This will ensure the basis for future welfare and strengthen the role of the region. On the right, we believe that we should take advantage of Norway's advantage as a small country where there is proximity between voters and elected people, and secure communities and municipalities of power at the expense of the county. As the Right wants a structural change, it is not considered appropriate to transfer these municipalities to another state at this stage. We therefore support the conclusion that the majority of the committee is behind, that one does not make the change that was desired by any municipality. The right would stress that our primary position in terms of administrative structure is a desire for a two-tier model without the county council as a bureaucratic and costly intermediary. It is important to strengthen rule of the people and democracy by decentralizing decisions and disseminating power. We want a comprehensive administrative reform to ensure more robust municipalities with strong professional environments. A two-level right model will facilitate a more efficient and simpler public sector. As part of this, we want a clearer division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality, where local self-government is strengthened, also through the fact that several of the tasks of the county council today are left to the municipalities. I would then like to inform you that the Right will support the proposal of the Progress Party No. 1, to ask the government to prepare for the closure of the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e740	This case concerns a wish from the four municipalities of Evje and Hornnes, Iveland, Birkenes and Lillesand to change the county affiliation from East-Agder to West-Agder. It has become clear why these four municipalities want to become part of West Agder. These include: on commuting patterns and identity. At the same time, there would be significant consequences for the Aust-Agder counties if one were to carry out such an adjustment of the county border. In this case, the Committee has had to weigh up conflicting local opinions, decisions and considerations. In the Center Party, we've been very busy hearing arguments from both sides before we fell into a decision. After an overall assessment, we have found that the disadvantages for East-Agder are greater in the event of a change in the county border than the sum of the benefits for the applicant municipalities of such a change. The Party therefore supports the Government’s proposal not to comply with the request for a change of county affiliation. The four applicant municipalities want closer integration with the Kristiansand region, for which we fully understand. We believe that it is possible to do so on the basis of today's county border if the municipalities, the counties and the county councillors are in favour of it. The responsibility for success lies both in East Agder and in West Agder. A yes to the application would probably create a domino effect, where several municipalities had sought refuge from Aust-Agder, and where the county would gradually be dismantled piece by piece. It would have undermined the Aust-Agder County Municipality as a service provider and as a community developer, and such development would have been unfortunate for the South as a whole. A yes would also have moved in the allocation of mandates to the Stortinget. East-Agder would have lost a mandate without a new West-Agder. The agderflies would collectively have lost sight of this, and it would have weakened the southern region. In 2011, there was a referendum on the merging of the agder states, and the result showed a clear no-majority in East Agder. It has to be interpreted as a desire to maintain the state boundary of the day. Any merger of the counties of the South must be based on a request from the local team. The centre party wants to listen as much as possible to local democracy and as far as possible to follow the referendum. In this case, it has not been practicable to follow all the referendums. We had to choose whether to follow the vote in the county or in the four municipalities. Following the referendum in the municipalities would have been to go across a clear no-majority in East-Agder in terms of coup d'état. In spite of many good arguments to allow border adjustment, therefore, the need to maintain East-Agder as a sustainable state over time has been decisive for our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e762	With regard to the application from Evje and Hornnes, Iveland, Birkenes and Lillesand to be transferred to West Agder, the Christian People's Party has chosen to follow the position of the government by failing to comply with this application. But it is clear – this is not a simple matter. The last speaker pointed out that there are two different referendums here. One is the municipal referendum in the three municipalities that have held it, where a clear majority say yes to changing counties, but then we also have this referendum that is linked to the county, where a clear majority said no to join with West Agder. It's a dilemma. A question for the Progress Party must be: are the referendums in the three municipalities worth more than a referendum in a state? Because that's the dilemma we're facing right now. And do you use this as an argument? If then this referendum in Agder County is worth less – is it to use it as a breakstone to put down the county council? I believe that this shows the dilemma of referendums and of what to pay attention to. But if you look at the realities – not least the economic realities – of what was going to happen if we had said yes to letting these four municipalities go to West Agder, the picture becomes something different, at least for the Christian People's Party, because it is clear that the economic consequences would be enormous. When 18 p.m. of the inhabitants and the area disappears into another state, it appears that the framework grant, which is essentially based on population figures, for the Aust-Agder counties will be 200 million. kr less. Even though there's a saving there of maybe 190 million. kr, which will go over time, East-Agder states will receive much less advice, and it will go beyond the production of services. I believe that this is not proper. So I have a question. If we had said yes to the transfer of these four municipalities to West Agder, is there one person here in this room who thinks that East Agder would continue as a state? I don't think so. It would in case have been a guided winding-up, and it would also have been an indirect attempt by the Storting to influence a coup d'état where one of the states with a clear majority has said no. That's one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party does not support the setting here. But at the same time, I would also like to say that this matter, along with other similar matters, raises the question of the future of the county council – definitely. The Christian People's Party will also bring down the county council – we said that in our previous programme, we say that in our new programme – but we will replace the county municipalities with robust regions. It's very sad to see how this government has put the regional reform in the drawer. Quite rightly, they have left some new worn roads to the counties, but it was. We were in the process of experimenting, and in many places we promised it well. We want to raise it again, and this case raises questions as to whether that is not the sensible way to go – at least for us who still want three levels of government, and not like the Right and the Advance Party, who want only two.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e777	I am pleased that the majority of the committee is presenting its proposal for a decision on this matter to the Government. It has been a difficult matter that has been opposed to each other by conflicting local considerations. We know that questions about municipal boundaries and the sense of righting also arouse strong feelings locally. That has been the case in this matter. There have been many meetings, there have been many delegations in the department, and I also know that it has been to the Storting. The proposal in the proposal is the result of a long and well anchored local process. The known local separators have also been verified through that process. Saka is initially an application for an adjustment of the county border between East-Agder and West-Agder, but the municipalities of Evje and Hornnes, Lillesand, Iveland and Birkenes sought to change the county link from East-Agder to West-Agder in 2011 and in KRD we decided to settle matters further. In the spring of 2012, we got a good and thorough impact assessment, where four different outcomes of the application were outlined: changing county ties for Iveland, Birkenes and Lillesand, changing county ties for all four municipalities, merging counties, or keeping today's borders at bay. The distribution was sent to all municipalities in both counties, counties, county offices, departments, NHO and KS. There were about 40 hearing responses from all the agencies, including the departments. As I said, we have also met several municipalities and counties. The process that we have now been through has well revealed where the inhabitants and the four municipalities want to be part of the West Agder. Iveland, Birkenes and Lillesand are in Knutepunkt Southland. The natural commuting pattern goes in the direction of Kristiansand, and the inhabitants of the area have a certain identity associated with the Kristiansand region. But the process has also shown that such a change will have major consequences for East-Agder as an independent state. The process has given us political decisions in Grimstad and Bygland, which also make it apparent that a change in the state border could lead to several applications for a change of state affiliation. As a complicating backstairs in this matter, the various people's islands have been held in East Agder in connection with the municipal government and county election in the autumn of 2011. Nearly three of the four inhabitants of East Agder said no to a merger of the counties. At the same time, the peoples of Lillesand, Iveland and Birkenes held their own. Here, seven out of ten residents said yes to a change in county membership if there was no merger of the county. As I see the matter, it is not possible to satisfy both of these requests. Changing the state association of these municipalities will make it difficult to keep East-Agder under a separate state. The Grimstad and Bygland decisions reinforce such an argument. Since it is the state limit that will be affected, it can be argued that it is the nation of the entire state that stands strongest. The ministry has not had applications of such a size before, cork when it applies to the number of inhabitants or areas. A change, if any, covering all four parishes of seekers, is made about Law 18 pst. by the inhabitants and the area of East Agder. The extent of the case also has national implications. A change in the county border to such an extent would affect the distribution of mandates for the whole country. On the basis of the broad process, the government agreed that the sum of the disadvantages of East-Agder in changing the county border would be greater than the sum of the benefits for the parishes. Locally, the state is now actively working to facilitate the consequence of that decision to be the best possible result for business and residents in the region. That's good. The East-Agder population also shows the strength of identity and belongings at the state level. There must be thought for those who want to wind up the county. There must also be thought for those who want to wind up today's county for the benefit of a larger regional level, when one sees how many in East Agder want to keep it lined up by layers as an own state. I also believe that weakening the regional authorities, such as the county and county council – as several parties call for – will reduce regional power to the benefit of central government in Oslo. Fine words about delegation to the municipalities think I'll easily be relieved of the need to see the country as a whole, to see the big picture, and for central decisions to be made. The struggle to keep East-Agder as a unit will of course be a blow in the air at such structural changes, but should be a reminder to us of how strong the county identity is in our state as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e802	So in this case, there are two different themes that have our people's defenses on. The one is County Convergence. Here it has been a great number in East Agder who have opposed it. It respects all parties, including the Center Party. But then one has another people's solution. Three municipalities have kept a bailout if they want to change the county. The public opinion is not respected, and here the impression is that the inhabitants of these municipalities have not understood their own best, etc., which means that you have to try it out. My question to the Minister-in-Office of the Council is: what time should the government refuse the will of the people? What is it that one says that the inhabitants have not understood their own best, and that one then sets aside a democratic referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e809	The representative looks at the problem a little bit on his head here. It's not that I don't respect the folklore that is done in the municipalities that have had folklore, but – as I did in my post – it's not possible to unite the two wishes. If we change the county affiliation of those municipalities, it is with respect to notifying little grounds to keep East-Agder under the ownership of the municipalities. Then, of course, a choice must be made, and the decision made by Grimstad and Bygland also helps complete the image of a state in resolution. There are consequences for very many people; there are also consequences at national level because the distribution of mandates will change. Hence, after a whole process we have landed at that position. We do this not by dishonoring the municipalities that have made their decisions, but by making a health assessment and a priority that one must do when one sits in power and is to rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e816	When it comes to the distribution of mandates, it is adjusted every eight years. So how this will turn out in the future, I don't think we're going to wonder about. The first public hearing, which everyone respects, where one has said no to a state synopsis, is okay. I can't believe that that's 18 pst. by the inhabitants of East Agder want to move from East Agder to West Agder, this means a collapse of the Aust-Agder county. This means in case there is a very bad situation in the Aust-Agder county, if such a change – that four municipalities, 18 pst. of the county, moving to another state - shall destroy everything. So my question is, is it so bad in East-Agder County that if these three municipalities go over, will it lead to complete collapse in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e825	No, it's not bad in East Agder County. Even if Agder cuts a little bad on some indicators that a user is looking at the development of well-being, it is not bad at all. It's clear that when such a large part of the county disappears, what's going to happen will be spinning. That's why we have the countries that we've done. The majority of the committee supports it. I think it's a correct assessment, but it has been a difficult assessment, I admit it. It's very difficult when we have two positions that don't jump, but where it's possible to argue well for both of them. It's a good idea to argue about the transfer to West Agder for the municipalities that have loved it, but we have the feeling that there are stronger arguments for keeping East Agder close to layers like a state. So it is possible to cooperate across the municipal borders and create a strong region, regardless of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e832	I'm recording that the municipal councillor thinks it's going to be very crazy in East Agder if these municipalities are allowed to leave East Agder and go to West Agder, as they like. It's a question of whether we should not look at the county council either, instead of denying the people's will in these municipalities. So these are municipalities that feel more connected to Kristiansand than to Arendal. One refuses to carry out a thorough, democratic process, and one refuses to move to another state and to get a stronger connection to Kristiansand than to East Agder. My question to the municipal minister is: if this becomes so strange, that a slight change in the county boundary makes it difficult to keep the county council by law, should not a person then look at the county council and perhaps resign him instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e839	It's interesting to look at the uprisings of the county council in East Agder, where three out of four say they want to keep East Agder as an own state. It's a pretty big part of the population. It should be thoughtful for those who want to tear down a regional level that currently has power, and for those who say that they want to decentralize power, but which I think will rather centralize power from the state and into national bodies, which will be very far from the municipality of Norway. As I said, this has been a matter where we have weights and disadvantages against each other. We have found that the sum of the disadvantages for East-Agder has been greater than the sum of the benefits for the parishes. That's why things have been presented as she is for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e846	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e851	In connection with the application from the four East-Agder municipalities for transfer to West-Agder, the Workers' Party's municipal fraction has visited and met with representatives of both the counties and the municipalities concerned. The points of view in the case depended on where we were located geographically. As I understood it, it was the geography that distinguished the points of view, not the political view. This case is of such a nature that it is not possible to find a solution where agreement can be reached. So it's a classic political gordian knot. There are differing views in the referendum, where the views contradict each other. Mr Sivertsen has reviewed this. The government has carefully assessed the situation and concluded that the applications should be rejected. On our journey in the Agder counties, it was quite clear that most of the people we talked to and contacted, regardless of whether they were in favour of or against having these municipalities move across the county border, stated that there should be one Agder party. I think something has happened in the wake of this debate. This case is not about merging East Agder and West Agder. But at the same time it is a signal that very many of the inhabitants of these two states perceive this as a region naturally belonging together. The Labour Party believes that changes to the municipal structure are needed to maximise the provision of services to the population, but also to enable municipalities to carry out all their tasks. The same applies to the counties. There are changes that need to be anchored locally, and here it is important that local and county policies take the signals from their own citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e864	The structure of government in South Africa is a problem I know well. In my time as a member of the local government, rapporteur, county council representative and staging representative, this is the theme that has been following me all along. It is not in itself negative that the structure of general government is being discussed, and in Sørlanden it has led to extensive cooperation across municipal and county boundaries. The requests from the southern municipalities for the transition to the neighbouring state come as part of and are the result of a long-standing debate and struggle for and against the merger of the Agder counties. After a referendum with a solid majority against aggregation, there was nothing of it. Here I have to say that the Council of State misinterprets significantly that result, because most of the people I have spoken to voted against because they wanted to wind up the county council. However, what is important for Stortinget to notice is that there are now many municipalities around the country waiting for the result in this case. They'll also change the county affiliation. We are thus clearly demonstrated that today's solution with three elected levels of government no longer has the right to life. Unnatural county boundaries set against ever-new housing and infrastructure solutions create challenges for education, business and good public service solutions. For the Right, the level of government is also not consistent with the desire to delegate more and more tasks and decisions to the level of administration closest to the users. The right will have a strengthened local self-government with several tasks and responsibilities added to the municipalities. The emergence of regional councils and voluntary cooperative formations around the country shows that municipalities are able to find their natural partners. Knutepunkt Sørlanden is a good example of this, where Lillesand, Birkenes and Iveland from Aust-Agder have found it quite natural to engage in regional cooperation with municipalities on the other side of the county border. It is quite natural, then, that the county border becomes a challenge and is desired. The first spinal cord reflex should indicate that the application from the four municipalities should be met. However, there is no doubt that such a significant transfer of citizens and resources to another state will cause East-Agder, which is already a small state, to have challenges to solve its tasks to the population in a qualitatively good way. The very size and challenge of building good environments of competence was an important element for many of us when we wanted to merge the two Agder states. A reduced state will reinforce the challenge. Strong signals say that new border municipalities will seek to further change this limit. This, together with the need to look at the structure of a larger whole, has led the Right to say no to the request from the municipalities now. By doing so, we at the same time put pressure on ourselves to get something done quickly about the structure and levels of government and to transfer more power to local self-government. That's what we like to do after the fall election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e881	It was the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkewold who got me to speak, because he had problems with the position of the Progress Party in this matter. I didn't think he should have it. I found this matter really very simple. Here are two people's arguments. There is one People's Reconciliation on the coup d'état, which the Progress Party and all the parties respect. Then there are three people's disfellowshippings where there are three municipalities that want to change the state, and unlike the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party also respects these people's expulsions. We respect this democratic process, and we respect the will of the people here. Then you say that if this happens, the depleted East-Agder will completely. Now maybe we don't take this as much as some county adherents do, because we want to wind up the county council the sooner the sooner, but I refuse to believe that it's 18 pst. If you leave a state, you should ensure that East-Agder is closest to the resolution and that it is not able to provide services to its inhabitants. I think it's quite possible to respect both of these people's excuses when it comes to both county conjugation and county transfer. When this is the case with mandates, means, savings, etc., it is decided at regular intervals. The amount transferred to municipalities and county councils is one of the decisions of the State budget. When it comes to the distribution of mandates, there is something that is done every eight years. So how this will turn out at the next review of the distribution of mandates is, of course, completely impossible to know. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party is the only party that respects the will of the people when it comes to these three municipal conjugations. We thought that was a little sad, but at least I'm happy with one thing, and that's that the Right has signalled support for our proposal No. 1, where we ask the government to start the liquidation of the county municipality. It gives hope for the future, hope that, after the fall of the autumn, we can start a process and terminate the county council. Then this thing too will be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e892	Thank you to the Ministry, the Council of State and the majority of the Committee for a sound and sensible conclusion on this matter. This case has not been simple – no matter where you have to make a choice, it is, and it has to do here. It's been very calm down. There hasn't been so much debate in retrospect. This suggests that the decision – which is now also taken by the Stortinge today – makes sense. Everyone says it's been a good process, and that's good. There have been referendums with great excitement. The referendum on yes or no to the coup d'état gathered as many as voted, as the ordinary election did. That means there's one thing that's engaged. But it's about choosing. One has to choose. Do you want to listen to the people's will in East Agder, or do you want to listen to the will of the people in the municipalities that have wanted a transition? It is impossible to combine the two things, because politics is also about consequences. Politics is about consequences. The consequence of saying yes to a transfer is certainly that the county would scratch, because other municipalities would follow, and one would halve the area of Aust-Agder and the number of municipalities. Ergo would force a coercion that the majority of the population would not have. It's when I wonder about the Progress Party democracy here today, who refuses to choose and make political priorities, saying that these are two different themes. There are very few in East-Agder and the South that see that these are two different themes. Everyone understands that this has consequences, but obviously not the Progress Party nationally. The progress party locally has understood that. The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, might be able to come down and run an election campaign for the Advance Party in East Agder? Then you see how upset he is about the view that everyone should be heard – ergo: someone is being run over. To the representative of Ingelill Olsen: I am not sure that there have been any more who are in favour. That's where I think we have a little bit of different opinions. I think the number against a coup d'état is pretty stable. I also record that in the process both big business representatives and others from West Agder were very involved and said that this must be done, but here in the Chamber today the representatives of East Agder are represented, who are engaged, and I am pleased that at least we agree on our bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e908	I'm not going to make any long posts, but when the representative Gjermund Hagesetter says that the Progress Party is the only party that listens to the people's will, I have to say that I put a question mark on it. In other words, he may be right if we follow the Ole Brumm principle of yes, both of them, because here one assumes that one can follow the municipal referendums and say yes to transferring these four municipalities, while at the same time East-Agder as the county is being maintained. In my first post, I said, is there one in this room that believes in it? I doubt it. I doubt that there are any here who believe that East-Agder can be maintained as a state if you transfer 18 pst. by the population, 18 pst. of the area and cuts allocated by 200 million. kr. So indirectly, I believe that by saying yes to this, you override the referendum that applied to the merger, and I don't think we should do that from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e913	The representative Gjermund Hageseter has had the word twice and thus gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e916	In this case, which concerns these three municipalities that have had referencing, and that want to move from East-Agder to West-Agder, the Progress Party is the only party that respects and says yes to the will of the people, and that supports this democratic process and this democratic decision that they have taken. When it comes to the fact that there's also been a referendum on state unification, I don't think we should pay attention to it. We know that many of the people who said no to the county merger did so because they want to remove the county council. I hope that in the fall we will have a plurality that will enable us to initiate a process and complete the county council that owns the administrative and political level. It had solved this matter, and it had also done the country better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e923	This was interesting. This was very interesting. The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, says, "We're not going to focus on the referendum on union reunification, it's not relevant. Yes, it will be nice for the Progress Party to run a campaign in East-Agder after that kind of statement. I don't think it's respect for the people either. I think it is a selective respect for the people's will for the Progress Party here. It's okay to choose – I would have had much more respect for the Progress Party if they had said that they think it's more important that the border municipalities are allowed to notify the transition. But claiming that one here doesn't have to choose is wrong. Policy also has consequences. Unfortunately – I see I have some time – I have to take a little training round on local conditions. The four municipalities that have applied for a transition are the result of Grimstad, which has a similar application — at least there is a certain danger — Bygland, Bykle and Valle, if the former are allowed to make a transition. That means that seven or eight out of 15 municipalities want transitions if the four are allowed to report transitions. It represents half of the area and 30-40 pst. by the inhabitants. I see that the representative Hagesetter thinks this is great. I don't think it's nice that referendums on coup d'état in this way would be undermined – that's actually what would have been the result. So, for big-time mandates. If one goes into the SSB population projections, one sees that it's raised beyond any doubt that East-Agder, with today's area and today's population development, will never lose a bulwark mandate. East-Agder has only four big business representatives, and it takes a great deal to make East-Agder lose a big business mandate. But if one loses a large part of the area, which is an important component of the calculation of mandates, a collapse mandate will be lost. So here the representative is Hageseter – to say it in good southern – completely on earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e934	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e950	I'm concerned with prevention in different arenas. I know there's a lot of positive going on in our country when it's affecting youth unemployment. Still, it's important, I think, that we're always some steps leading, so you don't get into a crisis. At the same time, it is important to have an active evaluation of the efforts being made, both in this area and in other areas, or one cannot go further. I look very seriously at what is happening in Europe. Young people in Europe suffer, and they get some heavy weights to bear at the beginning of their lives. I don't think any of us want to see this in Norway. That's what they say. “Freedom is the root of all evil.” In this connection, I refer to what researcher and teacher Lars Fredén from the Nordic University of Public Health in Sweden, who has research in the field, says about being unemployed: Unemployment among young people poses a risk of poor mental health and creates a vicious circle, which can lead to long-term exclusion from working life. A report prepared at the same university in 2011 shows that a number of studies have shown significant differences in mental health among those working, compared to those outside the workplace. We know that the group of young people in Norway is increasing. Unemployment is increasing among persons aged 15–24 years. At the same time, we record that there is demand for labour in several industries, and that employers do not get the skills they need to solve their assignments. Several experts have pointed out that there is little flow of labour between regions and that there is a lack of appropriate skills for job vacancies. We also see a trend in which several Swedish municipalities pay their unemployed young people to travel to Norway and seek work. In Norway, we still experience young, healthy people dropping out of school and often end up passive recipients of social benefits from Nav. We can't sit quietly and watch this. Even though we have been spared the great economic crisis that has affected the countries of southern Europe, it is still worrying that unemployment in the same age group here is increasing. We have heard Jens Stoltenberg and other government politicians – and LO – boast of the high employment rate and of the number of jobs created under their rule. The reality shows something else. During March this year, there were 1,200 more unemployed. It shows seasonally adjusted Nav numbers. The unemployment rate is now 2.7 pst. by the labour force. By the end of March, 70,000 people were registered at Nav as completely out of work. 19,000 were in action. This is 2,300 more than last year's March and corresponds to an increase of 3 pst. In addition, we have those who get work clearance money, which also have to be included in this statistics. Some of the increases in the number of people who are completely out of work are due to 400 fewer people taking part in labour market measures in March. If it turns out that 400 fewer people participate in labour market measures and that this is due to the increase in the number of unemployed, why are these people not employed in some form? Why are they not in activity? We have to be allowed to ask that question. The progress party has said that individual follow-up in Nav by each user is absolutely necessary to get good results. We know that the youth guarantee for the long-term unemployed does not work as optimally as possible. There is little help in initiating pilot schemes in some countries and in believing that it will help to get more people out of work or in education. We need dedicated vocational guidance counsellors at all local Nav offices, who have skills before recruitment, and who have experience in developing talent, motivation and abilities for the individual. It turns out that if you've been away from work for more than three months, it's a long way to get back. Therefore, it is necessary to focus on close follow-up. This job starts when the job is transferred to an action that will lead to further activity; not when users are left alone. When an unemployed person turns to his local Nav office, he is told to fill in the CV and to provide other personal information on the pages of Nav. Then you get a hope that employers call. But here the further follow-up of the individual often stops. Instead, system thinking starts – getting more people into work. Being unemployed does something to the human being – it looks like a human being. The very few think it's okay to be out of work and to have to depend on getting pay from Nav. When users who are taking action turn to me and say that they have become Nav addicts, I understand that as politicians we have not done a good enough job with the Nav reform. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, name Arne, 22 years old, who dropped out and was a so-called Parents gave up on him that he had to do something – he stayed there and lived on them. Finally, he visited the local Nav office. He was given a course that went over a few weeks, and, on the other hand, a place of action. He was in activity, yes, but that was not exactly what he wanted and fit into. But that's what was available. After a few months Arne couldn't make it. He felt he was in the wrong place, and was told to wait until he got a place for another action. Yet no one had asked Arne what he wanted, and how he imagined the future – what plans he had. During these months he had direct contact with Nav twice. Then there was a new measure. This time it suit his interests a little bit more. Arne wanders on different actions for two years, with no target at all. There was no plan at all — cork written or oral. He became aware of three others in about the same situation. It was positive for his part--he had someone to share his things with. But it's a little special that none of them got ordinary work in this period. It was also not about moving. Even applications for regular work were not specifically requested. Arne felt after a long time that it was unsafe to cut the umbilical cord to Nav. After all, he had made good contact with those who followed the same track as he did. He got used to the economy he got from Nav, and it was Nav he stuck to. When Arne was offered a vicariate in business, he was almost afraid to say yes – then he had to cut the string to the hub of life. There was a disturbance in him. Would he make it? Was he foreordained? And what about what he knew? There was the system in Nav he knew, that's where he felt safe. Arne said no to work twice. He finally stepped out and said yes to a company, but it was thanks to the friend he had hit in the Nav system, and he also said yes to exactly the same work in the same company. Today, Arne's apprentice is in the same business and soon finished. But do we have several such 'Arne's' in the Nav system, who can't get away from Nav when they first come in there? We need to look at how the whole hub is organized. Bureaucracy is increasing and quantity is becoming more important than quality when it comes to following up users. There is more time to update registers and statistics than what is the main task of adding them to Nav: getting people out of social security and into activity, moving from unemployment to work. How good is the collaboration with the business community, and does it get something concrete out of it? NHO says that 40 pst. of their member enterprises need to increase access to labour. At the same time, we graduate more to higher education. There have been several such issues in the media lately that there are regional disparities in the labour market, where in some areas there is a great need for labour but no competence. In other parts of the country, the unemployment rate is higher, while the unemployment rate has the right skills to be sought in other regions. This only shows that the requirement to take up free space other than in a cage is not followed up properly. It must be possible for young people to be required to move to work. My question to the Council of State is: What action will one take to improve this situation, and how should a person be able to qualify for future unemployment for the skills that business requires? Do we really do enough to this group of young people who are involved in the downsizing of unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e989	The representative, Reiersen, addresses an important topic. We have a highly educated population, but the labour force is becoming more and more specialised. Competence requirements are increasing in all areas. In addition, labour demand is changing as a result of changes in economic cycles and changes in the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises towards foreign competitors. The labour market is changing continuously. Some sectors are growing while others are falling back. This is due, inter alia, to: changes in demand and technological developments. These changes are unbalanced, where we see both unemployment and lack of some types of labour at the same time. Labour market policy and well-developed employment services are our main tool for reducing labour market imbalances and helping employers to obtain the skills they need. Through Nav's business surveys on the recruitment needs of enterprises, the level of demand for different types of labour market competence is close. Norway is otherwise in a favourable situation with growth in employment. The representative assumes that ‘there is little flow of labour between regions’ and that there is ‘lack of appropriate skills’. I think this is too general a description that needs to be nuanced. Compared to most other European countries, Norway has relatively small regional disparities in unemployment. This indicates great willingness to move or commute to where the vacancies are. At the same time, labour shortages in some places are linked to strong growth, among others. in the oil sector. There is a good opportunity for labour immigration to dampen such short-term bottlenecks in the labour market. However, making the labour market function even better is an important task. It will contribute to lower leave. I share the concern of the representative for youth leave. In particular, I am concerned that young people are not going to be free for a long time. Lack of or incomplete secondary education is very often an underlying reason why young people become unemployed for a long time. Impairment of working capacity or disability may also be part of the picture. An unfortunate start in the form of long periods of free time can have a negative impact on the person in question for a long time in the future, both health and career. In addition, letting young people go free is a waste of resources. Taking on-demand education could reduce youth unemployment. Nav has long cooperated with education authorities at county level to follow-up young people who have not completed secondary education. The Youth Guarantee shall ensure that a labour market measure is offered to young people under the age of 20 without work or schooling. This target group is to a large extent followed up in the follow-up service of the New GIV initiative, which is a cooperation between education and labour market authorities. Through New GIV, we're going to give a lot more in this group than we did in the past. The Guarantee Facility for 20-24-year-olds is now focused on individual follow-up of those who really need assistance to find a job or to get into education, whether or not they have a disability. It's set at 30 million. kr extra to work with young people in the Employment and Welfare Act in 2013. There are not only county trials; there is bets all over Norway. Education is often an important component of the job-oriented provision of people who need skills to get into work. Nav cooperates closely with the county to provide combinations of secondary education and work-oriented measures. Both the regular education system and labour market training are used. Each third respondent was in 2012 at some form of education or training. Nav focuses on education and training leading to completion of vocational training or providing evidence. Vocational training at higher education and university level is also used as a back-up measure where there is a need for re-training for health reasons. The unmet labour needs relate in particular to jobs requiring secondary vocational training and to certain subjects with higher education. The demand for skills changes considerably faster than the time it takes to graduate new candidates. The lack in question is often seen as a poor basis for the long-term planning of the full range of educational provision. Long-term education planning is part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge. The Central Statistical Office develops a model for the supply and demand of different education groups for the Ministry of Knowledge in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry of Knowledge brings this knowledge into the ongoing planning of educational services at both secondary, tertiary and university level. So far, projections show declining demand for unskilled labour and increasing demand for vocational training and academic professions. The OECD study on adult competence, PIAAC — or PISA for adults, as some call it — is also an important source of information. These surveys identify the real competences of adults in Norway, the competences used in the labour market and how they have acquired this competence. The results shall be published in October of this year. They'll tell us how well the Norwegian education system prepares people for practical professional practice. The survey is conducted in a wide range of countries. In this way, it is possible to measure our level of competence and our education system against other countries in a way that we have not been able to do before. Overall, the results of the national survey and comparison with other countries should provide us with good points of view on how we can improve even better. In addition to national sources of knowledge, there is a significant degree of peer-to-peer cooperation on the situation of competence. The Nav offices have a continuous contact with the labour market in their regions. This is useful information when training authorities in the counties plan training provision. In all these planning activities, it is quick to forget that young people themselves will choose what they will be. For most people, job opportunities after finishing education will be one of the most central ones. Knowledge of the future labour market will also be useful for career counsellors and for Nav in guiding job seekers. I see a good link between education policy and labour market policy as the most important measure to ensure that employers can access the skills they demand. The future will always be uncertain, but good information on likely development should make it easier to choose an education that makes it easier to get a job in line with that education. Effective employment services and active labour market policies are necessary to mitigate short-term imbalances.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1023	First of all, thank you very much to the Council of State who share my great concern about a group that we have to do everything we can to keep in the labour market – of those who want to work. I like the results of the investigation that comes in October, but we can't sit here and wait for it. We have to do things quite quickly – not least we have to be on the alert all the time when it comes to hubs, those that are indebted and not least to business and what their needs are. There's a lot of need out there. When we see others – such as Swedish youths – come here and get a job, while our young people are tired, we have to ask the question: What is it that does it? Well, that's a part of it, but when it's about education, it's a part of it, but it's about regions and where the work is. Is this good enough — does one talk well enough today? As I've mentioned before, someone is learning something where you might know that you'll be unemployed when you're done. Is there a problem with that? The learning arrangements are important, but are they good enough – good enough for the apprentice, for society, for the employer? We have to take good action and we have to listen to everyone who has something to do with it and possibly change things. It is fully possible to do. So that's the action on Nav – are they good enough? Do we change them as needed? And are we changing them fast enough? Soria Moria II states that it is particularly important to implement targeted measures against youth. Does the government then feel that one has seen in works targeted actions, and are these, if any, evaluated? That's my specific question to the Council of State at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1036	It is quite right, as the representative says, that what we need is targeted action for young people in particular. What we've seen at some Nav offices is that if you place young people in 20 years of age on the same initiative and the same school bench as a well-grown jobseeker, you also have some good experiences with it, but over and over again we see that there are special youth services that hit this group. I've been to some Nav offices and I've looked at those kinds of youth initiatives, and that's why we've also strengthened it in the state budget for the current year through a reinforcement of the Youth Guarantee. In the past, it was supposed to provide a labour market measure within six months, and it is an important measure when unemployment is high, but when unemployment is generally low, we have now targeted this youth guarantee specifically towards those who need extra help and support. We had a big discussion yesterday about the rehab companies. Many of these have also developed specific actions related to this youth group, and Nav will do so in its follow-up through the Youth Guarantee. So yes, we have special measures targeting young people. We have this especially in cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge and the education authorities because we see that it has a great effect. So I think it's a very central theme that the representative addresses, but it's probably not that Norwegian youth in general are struggling on the labour market, and that only Swedes are recruited in Norway. Swedish young people come to Norway motivated, because in Sweden there is a lack of jobs for young people. They have led a completely different labour market policy than what we have done in our country. We are happy to welcome some Swedish young people to Norway, but we also need to strengthen our efforts towards those young people who are struggling in the Norwegian labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1046	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. It may have become a cliché to say that youth is the future, but it's just as true, whether it's a cliché or not. Looking at the situation in southern Europe can fill anyone with deep despair. With a youth leave of well over 50 pst. Greece and Spain are worst off, but countries such as Portugal and Italy are not far behind. These countries are at risk of ending up with a lost generation in the labour market. It's not just because they're unemployed now, this can reproduce for decades to come. We know from unemployment studies that the longer you are away from the labour market, the fewer is what comes permanently back to the labour market. This is a deep and growing tragedy on our own continent. Fortunately, the situation is not so bad in this country. In many ways the situation is pretty good. We have large oil revenues, high government budget profits and youth unemployment, which, although higher than the unemployment rate for other groups, is low compared to many others. That's good. No one has the same creative capacity and capacity as young people, and society needs to facilitate the greatest possible contribution to society in a positive and constructive way. It is tragic when potentially active and creative young people are referred to passive life. As I said, we are doing well here in Norway. But at the same time I will warn against too much self-fulfillment. Youth unemployment is still too high compared to what it should be. Nor do we get as well out of the statistics compared to other countries that we often seem to believe. See, for example, on the national budget, on page 82, the proportion of young people who are neither in education nor in employment is actually higher in Norway than in Sweden, and in Sweden the proportion has fallen since the financial crisis, while developments have been opposite in Norway. We should therefore perhaps be a little careful before we become 'high and dark' towards other countries. A large proportion of social security beneficiaries are under 25 years of age, and for many of these, passive social security schemes are referred to. In itself, passiveness is harmful, it shows all research. Therefore, the Right has proposed that young beneficiaries be entitled to activity. It's not about moralization, as some on the left-hand side seem to believe. To make demands is to care. Not making demands is not good, it's genius. This proposal has therefore unfortunately been voted down by the government parties. We also know that the number of young workers is growing sharply. In 2011 and 2012, the increase was even dramatic. The proportion is also increasing. At the same time, this is what the interpellant points to: Norway is screaming for labour, and the need will only increase in the coming years. We therefore need to do our best to include as many young people as possible in the labour market rather than permanently expel them. But let me immediately say – just to underline: Anyone who is too sick to work – young as old – will have a decent social security without having to be ashamed of it. Of course we do. But disability can't be a sleep cushion. Let me give you an example: before you get into disability, you like to go to work clearance. Possible measures should be taken. And what is the waiting time for action? Well, according to the Department, the waiting time is approaching now one year: around 250 days and rising was the answer to a budget question from the Right – 250 days of inaction before entering into an action. It's the way that's permanently leading out of the world of work. The question asked by the interpellant is initially wider than only young people. It is also about the labour market in general. The bottom line is that we need labour in the future. This is what we have to do here in the house to provide, whether it's about helping young people who are mentally struggling, out in the workplace – or about taking a problem that's close to my heart: facilitating people with disabilities so that they too can get into work. Because we really have large labour reserves here in the country, we just have to activate them. Only in the case of people with disabilities are almost 80,000 involuntary outside of work. But as the interpellant has been involved, it's not just about getting people out to work. It's also about giving them the right education, so that they get skills that are actually sought out, which the Council of State was also about. And we may not have had enough focus on that in our committee – among other things. because we may feel that we are then entering the domain of another committee. A heart attack from me is that it might be good to have the kind of dialogue that we now have, in interpellations, a little bit wider than just in one committee. We know that we will especially need health and care workers in the years to come, and we know that business is screaming for engineers. We see challenges: Norway is simply not training enough people in these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1057	It is an important matter that the interpellant addresses today. I think it's important that we see what kind of labour market we have in Norway, when we discuss this, and what the situation is in the world around us. We have a labour market in Norway that is very marked by the fact that a high level of formal competence is required almost everywhere. It demands the education we give our young people. There have been major improvements, working intensively on both getting more teachers, so that all students will be seen, getting more practical training throughout the education cycle, and now making suggestions about re-training, so that they will become more practical and more experienced mastering at school. Then more of them are going to be better, it's important to see it. Then it's important that we talk about vocational training and raise the status of skilled workers and those professions. There are many who choose the wrong direction for the studies because that is what is most popular, or what you think is an expectation that you should do – that you should go to general and preparatory courses that are not suitable for everyone. It is also important to see that that part of the Norwegian labour market where it does not require much formal education, is usually in the first line, in the service sector or in, for example, in the service sector. clean professions. These are professions that require either very good physics — that you are in very good physical form — or that you are good at social mastering and that you have the psyche in balance. For many of these young people we're talking about now, this doesn't at all fit, because they need offers that allow them to qualify away from these jobs that they don't have health for, whether it's physical or mental health. It shows how important what we're doing now is we're using education as a tool in Nav for a lot of people. We have to have patience, because it can take time. It is also important, SV believes, that we have a youth guarantee that is stronger than the one we have today, so that there is no waiting time, but that the measures offered to young people can be work training, training and schooling. It could also be a course, such as: The mob project runs, which hits a lot of the kids who are struggling, and who experience mastering there. So education as reintroduction is hugely important. So it is that around us unemployment is very high, and youth unemployment in Sweden would probably have looked significantly worse if the youth had not been in Norway and worked. We are pleased that they are here, but it is clear that employers are looking at the skills of different applicants, and there is no doubt that it makes it more difficult for some of the young people who are struggling in Norwegian working life – many people want to take off their jobs. So a little bit to what Graham's representative was talking about: social assistance. Yes, first of all, it is important to know that three out of four young people printed out by child protection are entitled to social assistance. Then there's hardly a whip that's the solution for these kids. There we have strengthened child protection precisely because we know how important it is to break the evil circles that lead to difficult lives for generations. So it's like the law of social services in Nav opens up to quiet conditions today. The municipalities that do it wisely succeed. So it's not about cutting everyone over a comb, it's about making arrangements that actually lead to improvement, mastering, learning and the security of the individual, because these are young people who have enough challenges in their lives. It's not that they need a challenge, they need some security in life that's difficult. I want to challenge large parties that sit with rapporteurs and power and authority in many municipalities, to use the Social Services Act as intended. Because there are a lot of people who go to the social office, who never get any such help. On the contrary, they are not offered anything, and it is clear that then it is not strange that you do not get out of the difficult life situation. For mastering and power over one's own life must be a goal of the policy we have. Thus, no one becomes more qualified to work because one does not take on the skills and mastering needs that individuals have to meet and the qualification requirements that exist in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1076	Youth unemployment is one of the most important things we have to work on continuously. Having work for youth gives dignity, it gives a constant rhythm in life, and it gives its own income. The figures from the Statistical Central Agency of 30 April, i.e. today — the Labour Force Survey — show that, in relation to the situation in November 2012, the figures are identical in February 2013 – 3.5 pst. There are 95 000 unemployed according to AKU statistics, of whom 83 000 are registered unemployed including Nav measures. There are labour market imbalances. The interpellant points out that there is little flow in the labour market between regions and a lack of important skills. I am among those who will warn against having a larger flow in the labour market. It's a great flow of youth from one area to another. Putting in an instrument for further flow has costs in terms of the environment from which you come, the environment with which you are familiar. We're going to be careful to use people in such a way that one is channelled into those areas of the country where there is always time off. It gives rootlessness and many other challenges. What's the big challenge in our working and business life is the two-way division that we have in our business. We have to correct it, so that we dampen what are the major stimulators: oil and the gas and property sectors, and we have to stimulate the continental economy. It is the core of a mixed economy. What the government has now done in terms of woodworking is one contribution to stimulate a sector that can correct that division a little. Furthermore, there is a two-fold division of the labour market. As a result, Norwegian pay and working conditions are being tested. The basic point we have had in Norway is put to the test, namely that you have a full job, you have to have an income that you can earn at our high cost level. It's absolutely fundamental. This principle is now being tested as a result of having a large amount of labour immigration from countries where unemployment is much higher and where one has a much lower level of income. We are now being challenged in view of new EU Member States – Croatia is one of them now. Should one then enter into transitional arrangements or not? I strongly recommend that you go in for transitional arrangements, so that you get a better hand on it and a greater balance in it. We know that there are an incredible number of good young people coming from these countries. They get easy work in Norway, but the work they do does in many cases is practical, and the practical work is also relevant to many of our young people who are unemployed. This makes it easy for our own young people to have a more difficult competitive situation on the labour market and to fall outside. It's a big challenge. I would also like to focus on the assumption of employability. I would like to pay strong tribute to the professional organisations in Norway who are systematically working to maintain the homonymity of Norwegian working life. There I would say the Trade Union is the foremost organisation, which has a policy that is incredibly important to many more than those who are members of the Trade Union. In terms of how to qualify unemployed young people, we talk about many great young people who, if you understand their desires and hopes, can enter into practical professions. I would say that the most important thing here is that one qualifies through participation in the working life. Then the first thing is that as leaders we have a greater respect for practical work. We have to talk positively about practical work, we have to realize that practical work also contains a great deal of knowledge and competence. There are so many who talk about practical work as if it does not have knowledge and competence. It must end as soon as possible. We also need to have an economic valuation, and we need to have measures within Nav. It is very demanding because there are many young people who require follow-up, and few people are responsible for this. Therefore, I would appeal to an interaction between the Nav offices in each municipality, the political management of each municipality and the working life of each municipality, that one goes together and sees what a concrete and practical can do to get their young people into the giving work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1097	I would like to thank the inter-pellant Laila Marie Reiertsen for addressing the important issue of youth unemployment and the lack of consistency between supply and demand in the labour market for young people. The underlying reason for youth unemployment is the high dropout in secondary education. About 30 pst. So, of those who start that training, they don't complete their education. All studies show that these 30 pst. is strongly overrepresented in unemployment statistics. A difficult consideration for national and regional school authorities will be whether trends in time or business needs will guide the provision of secondary education. It is a fact that young people often choose courses of education based on personal interest and trends, but without being sufficiently informed about job opportunities after finishing education. The experience I have as a education policy in More and Romesdal and as a secondary school teacher also suggests that there is not always a match between the educational choices of the students and the personal qualifications required. Strengthening the provision of advice in secondary schools through skills and continuing training requirements is very important to improve this. It is also important to continue and focus more on cooperation between the follow-up service, Nav and the county municipalities, which take place around Norway. Another aspect relevant to the drop-out in secondary education is the large element of the theoretical knowledge material in Vg1 professional subjects. Many students who are out of school after 10th grade in high school get a leased surprise when they start high school. They have benefited from practical training, and experience that the strong theoretical pressure from high school actually continues into vocational training. In March this year, the government launched the ‘Growth Communication’ on the Right Way — Quality and diversity in primary schools. I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the government, and to the knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen in particular, to take action that is important to reduce youth unemployment, and to better match the supply and demand of the labour market for young people. I would like to mention in particular two important aspects of the big message, in my opinion. Firstly, the government wants to provide more flexible solutions than the permanently cleared 2+2 model in vocational training. Today, students only undergo two years of training at school, and then get the luckiest opportunity for a two-year apprenticeship contract, and then a diploma. Unfortunately, experience shows that it is precisely in the transition from school to apprentice that the highest rate of drop-out is in secondary education. The government now wants to soften this system, and gives states great freedom to test out models where high school students are introduced for corporate training earlier in the education cycle. It is a good and sensible approach, which is likely to have a positive effect on the labour market as well. First, because the motivation will increase in school-leaving students, who get a more varied day-to-day school, and second, because at an earlier stage, students will be tested in practice in the profession for which they are trained. It will, in turn, give them the opportunity for qualified and well-founded re-elections, where it appears that expectations and practical working life in the profession do not match. I would also like to mention that the government is adding up to a broad review of education programmes and apprenticeships with the social partners. I interpret it so that the county vocational training students will then have a central place in such a process, and that is also an approach I can join. For the Christian People's Party, it will be important that these good measures proposed by the government be translated into practical action after the government change to the harvest. Well started is half complete, and the Christian People's Party will do its utmost to contribute to that completion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1120	Thank you very much to the interpellant for raising this important debate here today. Several have been concerned about the incredible importance of cooperation between Nav and business. We had a debate yesterday that got a little bit into this, and it also turns out that there is better and better cooperation between Nav and business. What the interpellant also has in mind here is the education system, and whether the business community gets the right education from the candidates who come from the schools. I believe that we should focus much more on the education system as such. The representative, Sylvi Graham, also said that she would want greater scope in the debate, and perhaps more committees should have been invited to participate. In this way, the Christian People's Party has seen this, as we are here from at least two committees. I fully agree with that statement. Let me go on to say that there is a screaming need for labour in some industries – of course not in all. I think everyone – most of them, at least – has found that it is wrong if young people go out of work, and we need a workforce. If I look at my own state, or maybe the Western states, we have a frightening shortage of engineers in the maritime sector and not least in the oil sector. The lack of engineering competence in Norway is simply so critical that it begins to pose a capacity problem for industry. Several of the Norwegian Industry's member companies say they could employ hundreds of civil engineers in the day, if they had been available. And the development of business is so unambiguous, it is said, that there is no doubt that the need for engineers and civil engineers in the future will be greater than today – it will also be in 10, 20 and 30 years. I take this as an example, a good example, because the Council of State was also concerned that the need for labour often changes faster than one can train. I think that's right in a lot of areas. But in this very area, as far as engineers and civil engineers are concerned, into a future – 10, 20, 30 years, as they say themselves – we can actually plan both short-term and long-term in relation to needs. The representative Steinar Reiten was also concerned with another important problem, namely the drop-out at school. Let me take engineering training here too. It turns out that many of those who drop out of engineering education do because mathematics gets too difficult. Then our question is, should you possibly have a type of admission requirement, training or assurance that those who take engineering training will actually pass the math education that's there? This has been a problem, and it is important to do something about it. Another problem experienced by engineering training relates to the funding system. It is the education that has the lowest income compared to expenditure. It has also been pointed out. If we're going to train more, if we're going to increase capacity, the schools also have to get more ground to take in and increase capacity. Let me take a little bit about a different relationship as well: the maritime education. We have a huge growth in the maritime sector, and again in the Western world: the reason I'm dealing with this with engineers and the maritime sector is that in my counties in the Western world, this is really demanding. There are also enormous problems in recruiting labour with relevant education and specialised skills. It's said that some of the education we have today is actually out of date. We have this education both in higher education and at the bachelor's level, and here, too, the so-called MARUT-deprived Aasen Committee has said that there is a need to strengthen the maritime bachelor's education. My point is that we need to have education that makes young people actually get a job, but we also need to have education that is relevant to today's needs. My speech today was on that part of the representative's interview that we should not forget the education system, which is an incredibly important basis for our success, both in getting young people to work, and also that the business community receives the training they need from those young people. Thanks again to the interpellant. I think it's been a great debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1147	I just want to thank everyone who has participated in the debate today. It's very good to hear that we're all a lot of people that we're actually worried about, and we're on guard in view of the developments we're seeing in Norway today on this problem of unemployment and youth. I'm glad to hear it. I just want to make some comments. As the representative Graham said – this should be the case for several committees. I'm the whole agreement of the heart. Both education and health would like to be here, and perhaps also nutrition, not least. It would have been great fun if we could have gotten there. It's not always as easy. As Karin Andersen said, we need to talk about vocational training. I'm in complete agreement -- it's very important. I think they're often acquitted. We're just talking about college education, but there are other things, like vocational education, that are very important for this society to go around. There's something I believe in. The representative Lundtigen had good words when it comes to owning income, having merit and not least meringue in everyday life. It's something that's important for a youth to get on the road in life. At the same time, the representative was also a little skeptical about moving around. I understand that too, but at the same time I see the importance of having a job on the CV. There must be much more to it than having a measure on the CV. That's why I'm talking a little hot for this because if there's someone we can move a little more than others, it might be the youth today, which I have more faith in. The representative Steinar Reiten took up the moment of counseling in schools, which is also very important – that there is someone there who has competence, that the youth is being counseled in a good way, so that they are banned from further education and working life with regard to what they are actually doing, that they are getting the most information about it. I am pleased that the representative Davøy is talking to the West. We are the heart's few in that we have our challenges there. The more we talk about it, the better it is. So again: Thanks to everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1164	Once again, I would like to thank the interpellant for an important discussion. The background is youth unemployment and an unmet need for skills. You almost get the impression that it's a disadvantage to be young. It's not like that. When youth unemployment is almost always higher than adult unemployment, it is because these are people who have just completed education and are usually unemployed over a shorter period of time. The vast majority of those entering a Nav office shall call it the'snow in the door': they receive help with a CV, help with writing applications, and then the effort shall be concentrated on those who are struggling on the labour market. The representative refers in his interpellation to the Labour Force Survey figures. That's where she shows that there's a 8.7 pst off. or 33,000 persons. The registers for Nav show that the unemployment rate for them between 15 and 24 years in the fourth quarter of last year was 10 700 people. In addition, 5 400 were available for interventions, i.e. That the numbers from Nav only show half as many unemployed as that of the second survey. Nav's figure also shows a slight decline from the previous year. So there's reason to think that this is primarily those who register with Nav, who have problems in the labour market. Then I fully agree that it is important to have one special employer on the CV. It is precisely for this reason that it is important that Nav cooperates with the ordinary working life on measures, so that an employer is on the CV, and that several measures are to be taken in the workplace, is therefore important. As far as social assistance is concerned, I am a member of duty, but the proposal that the representative from the Right here is against what all the Right Communes, at least I have spoken to, have said. If you are going to demand social assistance conditions, you have to bring in a number of exceptional homes for those who are older and who are going to have help with the power bill and other things. To me, this is more symbolic than real policy. We demand social assistance as never before. This is especially true of young people. And the proposal that the representative from the Right here is promoting, which concerns large municipalities like Oslo, Bergen, Tromsø and Stavanger – run by the Right – I am very strongly opposed, because it detracts from the municipality's self-determination as to whom they should make demands. So there's a lot of care in setting terms, but let the municipalities that see the individual decide who needs that kind of claim. Norway has low youth unemployment compared to other countries, no matter what numerical basis we use, but we still have to work to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1179	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1191	The President will propose that there be a debate immediately after the presentation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the State Council Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen is given the floor to make its statement, the President will propose the following arrangements for the debate relating to this matter: It is based on Section 43(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which deals with statements by a member of the Government, but the second paragraph of Section 43 is waived by proposing that the debate be arranged in such a way that the rest of the debate after the presentation is limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes, and the speaking time is allocated as follows: Head of Delegation to the Nordic Council 10 minutes, Working Party 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1202	I very much appreciate this opportunity to inform about and discuss Nordic defence cooperation. The Nordic Council's initiative to conduct debates in the Nordic countries' parliaments on Nordic defence and security cooperation during 2013 is positive. I hope that this presentation can be a good starting point for debate. Nordic defence cooperation maintains a high level of activity and is constantly developing. This cooperation has a high priority in all Nordic countries. Nordic cooperation in general has long traditions, including in the field of defence and security policy. For decades, our defence cooperation has involved everything from participation in UN operations around the world, through NATO cooperation in the Balkans and in Afghanistan to more domestic activities related to security policy dialogue and material and capacity cooperation, including education, training and training. The demanding economic development of the last few years in the world and in Europe has not reduced the need for cooperation. We can still see that most Western countries are implementing significant cuts in defence budgets at the same time as cross-border security challenges and the costs of high-tech material are increasing. Many of these cuts are already leading to the disappearance of entire capacities in defence structures. These are often structures that have previously entered into as part of the international commitments of a country — for example: The Netherlands has chosen to phase out its maritime patrol aircraft, while Denmark has removed the submarine weapon. In an attempt to remedy this, both NATO and the EU have launched initiatives related to ‘Smart Defence’ and ‘Pooling and Sharing’ respectively. Nordic cooperation is a good example of – or a variant of – this. Common challenges provide a good basis for common solutions. At a time when cooperation even within the military domain is not only important, but necessary, we shall appreciate our special starting point in the Nordic region. The Nordic community of values and our common history, relatively even size and geographical proximity make it natural to cooperate on security and defence policy issues. Although we have different security policy orientations, the conditions are conducive to cooperation, and I believe that Nordic defence cooperation is clearly showing that we are exploiting more and more of the potential we have in the region. The Nordic Defence Cooperation, NORDEFCO, was established in 2009 and is a long-term cooperation. NORDEFCO brought together and integrated the many cooperation arrangements on the defence side that already existed, but which lacked an overall framework. The Stoltenberg report of the same year has also helped to raise awareness of the potential of Nordic cooperation, both military and non-military. The purpose of Nordic defence cooperation is to strengthen the operational impact and ability to solve the defence tasks. This is sought by providing the defence with more capacity, or by enabling us to have the same operational effect at a lower cost. This is achieved through a flexible organisation in which each country decides which projects they want to participate in. All areas of cooperation are open to all Nordic countries and express the desire for inclusion and transparency in the activities in which we participate. Norway attaches great importance to Nordic defence cooperation as an important complement to our NATO membership and cooperation with close allies. The flexible cooperation frameworks that both NATO and the EU have with non-members make it possible to strengthen Nordic cooperation within these organisations, both at military and political level. The well-developed partnership cooperation means that Sweden and Finland are closely linked to NATO in a number of areas, while Norway has participated in the EU battlegroups and is an active member of the EU Capability Cooperation through the European Defence Agency, EDA. In NATO, Norway is actively working to involve Sweden and Finland, as a significant contributing country, more closely in NATO’s planning and decision-making processes. In recent years, we have seen positive developments in Nordic defence cooperation in a number of areas. Cooperation has increased both in width and depth through continuous action and initiatives from above and below. The increase in the number of projects and areas of cooperation shows that Nordic governments have put their ambitions behind action. Nordic defence cooperation is mainly divided into two areas: one is security policies and operations, where policy choices are discussed or operationalised. The second is capacity development, which includes cooperation on materials, logistics, education, training and practice. First of all, we in the Nordic region have a close security policy dialogue, where we seek, where possible, to coordinate our positions on security policy issues in the international arena. Together, we are discussing various issues in NATO cooperation, the development of defence and security policy in the UN and the EU, cybersecurity and development, and relations with Russia. The joint Nordic Foreign and Defence Ministerial meeting in Bodø last September, which dealt with both north-eastern issues and conflict areas such as Syria and Mali, well illustrates the breadth and depth of the Nordic dialogue today. Nordic cooperation in international operations has been very valuable. The cooperation in UN operations during the Cold War and the experience of the Nordic-Polish Brigade in Bosnia in the 1990s has helped to lead the operational cooperation to where it is today. In recent times, Nordic cooperation is a very good example of how we have managed to bring common ambitions and interests to the ground in operations abroad. From the outset, it was even about bringing together the activity of all the Nordic countries in one area in Afghanistan, but Denmark chose to engage in the south, while Norway, Sweden and Finland for a long time concentrated their activity in the north. The experience of this work is positive at all levels of the military structures that we are committed to taking with us as the military activity in Afghanistan escalates. Right now, we are in an ongoing dialogue on the continuation of our cooperation in Afghanistan and how we can focus more attention on training and training police and defence. Regardless of the way forward in Afghanistan, the ISAF operation has shown us how demanding it is to start cooperation after we are in place in an area. For future Nordic cooperation in military operations, we need more foresight planning. Experience from previous and ongoing operations is now actively used in the design of solutions that can improve our ability to jointly deploy or interact in operations. In order to achieve operational and cost-effective gains, it is essential that we engage in dialogue with each other as early as possible during the planning phase. The Nordic countries share common values. This will include, inter alia: to express how we meet new and global safety challenges related to women, peace and security. I would like to underline here the work done by all the Nordic countries in accordance with UN Resolution 1325. In the Nordic region, we are united in emphasising the importance of the United Nations for an international legal order, and Norway's ambition for increased commitment to UN operations is solid. We continue to work to strengthen the UN's peace-keeping efforts, and it is very important that Western countries set up with the special capabilities of the United Nations for military purposes, such as. engineers, liaison and modern field hospitals. These capacities are a prerequisite for carrying out operations. At the same time, we experience that economic downturns are challenging the political will and ability of many European countries to contribute to international peace and stability. Several UN operations are likely to go down in terms of strengths, including: pressure to reduce costs. The Nordic countries have had a common ambition for many years to make a joint contribution to a UN-led operation. We have now come a long way in identifying and describing potential capacities that may be relevant to a possible joint UN contribution. There is agreement in the Nordic region that the dwindling of military aid in Afghanistan can give new room to achieve this ambition. We want to enter into a closer dialogue with the United Nations Department for Peacekeeping Operations in New York to become a more predictable and relevant actor with an increasingly united Nordic voice. In this context, it is important for me to stress that when we describe a possible Nordic cooperation in international operations, it does not exclude participation from other countries, and that does not mean that all Nordic countries must participate. The Nordic countries share concerns about the situation in Mali, and especially in Syria. Now a UN operation has been adopted in Mali, but if it should be relevant for the Nordic countries to enter into one of these operations, they will be very demanding, and if we engage in the military, we must be prepared for long-term efforts. The ability of the Nordic countries to operate together is largely linked to how we develop our strengths and capacities. In order to operate as efficiently as possible together, our personnel must train and train together, and weapons and materials must be as equal as possible, or able to work together. This is one of the reasons why capacity cooperation has been given a central role in Nordic defence cooperation. By working together on research and development, acquisition, operation and maintenance of materials, training of personnel and training and training, we also make more effective use of the total resources of the countries, and we achieve greater operational impact and ability than we would each do for ourselves. We therefore continue to cooperate more closely in all these areas. Cooperation between the Nordic research institutes in the defence sector is well and increasing in many disciplines. This work includes, among others: contributing to the creation of space for action and to the preparation of subsequent cooperation on the choice of technological solutions and the acquisition of material. The aim of material cooperation is to achieve maximum systemic equality through joint acquisitions, operation, maintenance and upgrades over the lifetime of the material in order to achieve savings and ensure operational interoperability. Cooperation so far has produced a number of good results, and several new opportunities are under investigation. Among these, I would like to highlight our cooperation with Sweden on the acquisition of artillery, trucks and armoured vehicles. Norway upgrades and supplements through new acquisitions The army's stock of the Swedish tank CV90, and Finland has purchased the Norwegian ground-based air protection system NASAMS to replace its current air protection system. The acquisitions are significantly accompanied by cooperation on the full range of strength production of this capacity. Projects also involve significant industrial participation and value creation. In the future, we will include: assess the feasibility of establishing Nordic cooperation on the acquisition of air surveillance sensors, mine clearance vessels, long-range missiles against land and sea targets, common bases for international operations and common systems for detecting and combating improvised explosives. In the ongoing investigation of options for future submarine capacity, we look at opportunities for cooperation with several other countries, including whether Nordic cooperation can meet our needs. The objective will be to maximise, on a case-by-case basis, joint or coordinated training, training, operation, maintenance, further development and operational exploitation of the material capacities. We also look at how we can exploit the strengths and capacities that we already have for each of us in a combined better and more efficient way through pool solutions. The cooperation between our country's tactical air transport capacities, for Norway it concerns C-130 J Hercules, will serve as a test of the effects and benefits we can achieve by coordinating operational exploitation, operation and maintenance, and possibly also by establishing a common air transport command. While we see good progress in several fields, we also face challenges in capability cooperation. National differences in military tradition, security policy orientation, organisation, planning, industrial policy assessments, legislation and practices for the acquisition of defence equipment are among the factors challenging our ability to find good cooperation solutions. So this is going to happen, for example. results of the revision of the Nordic Industrial Cooperation Agreement, where countries differ in their views on how far they want to go in cooperation. We also demand from the Norwegian side that in those areas where the cooperation involves shared storage, operation or maintenance, we ensure that all the capacities of Norway in its military toolbox are available at all times, regardless of whether or not our neighbouring country is involved in the activity. This is about how far countries are willing to integrate and commit. Pragmatism and willingness to compromise are therefore key words for continued good progress in cooperation. Military training and exercises with multi-national participation from the Nordic region are mainly conducted in the framework of major international exercises. For Norway, this is mainly expressed through the inclusion of Sweden and Finland in exercises in Norwegian soils with allied NATO countries, where Cold Response is the most extensive. Through NATO initiatives related to the ‘Smart Defence’ and the so-called ‘Connected Forces Initiative’, Norway is at the forefront of enabling active partner countries to play a full role in cooperation. This means that, to an even greater extent than in the past, they can participate in training and exercises under the NATO regime even after our cooperation in Afghanistan is stepped down. In the long term, this means that much Nordic defence activity can take place in a NATO framework and then with the possibility of participation of other allies. In addition, today we have good experience in the cross-border flow of fighting in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden and Finland. We train together more or less weekly, and the countries' wings can operate differently and with great complexity in a large area of air and land. This provides valuable operational and multinational experience without costing us anything more than training alone in Norway. The inclusion of Sweden and Finland in the training part of NATO’s Iceland air surveillance during the Norwegian rotation in 2014 will further strengthen Nordic cooperation. This will imply a further development of cross-border combat flow, where Sweden and Finland will station their materials and personnel in Iceland during the training period and achieve further interoperability with Norway and NATO. The personnel dimension is an important part of Nordic cooperation. The first Nordic veteran conference was held in Oslo last autumn. This was a unique venue for the information sharing and development of ‘best practice’ as regards the preservation, recognition and follow-up of veterans. Both Nordic and Baltic countries were well represented at the conference. It is especially gratifying to see that the vet approach to the government arouses great interest among our neighbours, and today we have active cooperation at all levels. In addition to veterinary cooperation, we also see a broad Nordic course portfolio for education, skills enhancement and certification of personnel in most categories of defence. In this context, all Nordic countries have their respective centres of expertise offering their services to all Nordic countries and often to countries outside the region. Such a wide and comprehensive offer to the personnel provides a significant efficiency gain for the Nordic defence cooperation that we want to further develop. The Nordic countries, together with our Baltic neighbours, have well-established cooperation on defence-related security sector reform, FSSR. This type of cooperation and support is very much in demand in both the UN, NATO and the EU. As former FSSR beneficiaries, the Baltic countries contribute with important experience in Nordic-Baltic cooperation. The symbolic effect of the fact that former FSSR beneficiary countries are able to export their experience in other regions is also important. Today, cooperation addresses projects such as: towards re-training of outnumbered military personnel, support for the building of regional centres of competence, capacity building in defence departments and administrative reform. Through this work on security sector reform, Nordic countries contribute to the Western Balkans, Ukraine and Georgia. Over time, Baltic countries have signalled their will and desire for closer cooperation with the Nordic countries. Nordic-Baltic cooperation has proved to be a success in several international operations and in particular in Afghanistan. The potential for closer cooperation on education, training and exercises is promising, and our existing cooperation on veterinary issues is in good development. It is also important for the Nordic countries to be prepared to provide expertise on the UN and UN operations now when resources are also released to the Baltic countries due to dwindling in Afghanistan. Nordic defence cooperation benefits from broad political upswing in the Nordic countries. At the same time, it is important to recognise the differences between us as regards alliance relations, decision-making mechanisms in governments and parliaments, industrial policy orientation and our respective defence structure and material stock. Current debates in the Nordic countries on Nordic defence cooperation, the NATO issue and issues related to the conversion of defence structures also help to show the differences between us that are more or less prominent in our areas of cooperation. This winter, discussions have been held on whether Nordic countries would be able to escape a country's military aggression, be prominent in several countries, and especially in Sweden. First of all, it is difficult to imagine how a really serious security crisis would be going on in the Nordic region today. In such situations, it is important to bear in mind that international political and diplomatic solutions will be the primary objective, and not just individual countries, but international organisations will be heavily involved. Should such measures prove inadequate, the situation could have a military dimension. As I, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and my Swedish and Finnish colleagues have said several times, it is difficult to imagine that a security policy situation in a Nordic country could develop without affecting its neighbours. Nevertheless, it is important for me to remember that it is a good piece from there to guarantee military support. Nordic defence cooperation offers no security policy guarantees and, for Norway, NATO's mutual defence guarantee is at the bottom. We have to be dry to realize that we are unable to cooperate on everything, and that in some areas we need to be better off looking beyond our own limits and limitations and looking at common opportunities that can lead to better results in the longer term. This is ‘Smart Defence’ or ‘Pooling and Sharing’ in practice. Within the framework of NORDEFCO, we are now reviewing the governance of the structure in order to ensure the most effective transformation of policy objectives into concrete results. During the Nordic Minister of Defence meeting in Rovaniemi last month, we started trying to formulate a common vision for Nordic defence cooperation. Although we agree on the positive aspects of cooperation, defining what this is really about is a demanding exercise. The last few months of defence and security policy debates in Sweden and Finland make it clear that there may be different emphasis on the purpose of our cooperation. I don't see this as a problem for Nordic defence cooperation. On the contrary, I see the dynamics as healthy and necessary. Through discussions about a common vision, we challenge ourselves and each other, which hopefully will lead the cooperation one step further. In any case, it is important for me to contribute to the maintenance of the spinal reflexes that I, my colleagues in foreign and defence affairs, our departments and departments look to the Nordics when the defence and security policies are discussed internationally. Such processes are becoming more important for Norway to take on board when we take over the presidency of NORDEFCO until next year. The interest in Nordic security and defence cooperation is increasing, both nationally and internationally. This is both an expression of the political importance of the theme and of the development of a well-functioning cooperation that interests the defence and foreign policy area. We must therefore both maintain and further develop the flexible cooperation we have established in NORDEFCO. I appreciate the flexible and informal dialogue that Nordic defence cooperation has today with the Nordic Council, and I hope that together we can develop it in a practical and appropriate way. Multinational cooperation is necessary to address today’s and tomorrow’s defence challenges. This is due not only to financial constraints but also to shortages of highly skilled personnel in a pressurised labour market for key categories of personnel. All European countries need to cooperate more in the defence sector to avoid dramatic cuts in the strength structure and reduced ability to meet national and international commitments. In this context, Norway will continue to be pragmatic and results-oriented and seek cooperation where we find it appropriate, whether in NATO, the United Nations, the EU or in other structures, such as NORDEFCO and other multinational initiatives. In the North, we're lucky. We have very special conditions for cooperation where we are only at the beginning of finding the potential. With a common political, geographical, historical, cultural and linguistic foundation, we are well equipped to meet together a challenging future in which military capabilities will remain in demand in the political toolbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1301	Let me first thank the Minister of Defence for a very good statement and also thank her for giving this statement. The Nordic Council delegation appreciates this very much. We have just held – no more than a few weeks ago – a memorial in Stockholm, where state councils from all the Nordic countries were present and made contributions. It was a memorial of defence cooperation, and it was Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide who represented Norway. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, was also present. I first sat in the Nordic Council from 1997 to 2001. During that period, I experienced the very first presentation of defence and foreign policy in the history of the Nordic Council. It should therefore be closer to ten years after the fall of the Berlin Wall before the issue could be put on the agenda during a session of the Nordic Council. During the Cold War, defence policy was taboo in political debates and talks between the Nordic countries. And let me add: this was also about government cooperation, and not just parliamentary cooperation. Then came November 9, 1989, which was probably a very common day for most people in Europe, but in Berlin the first East Germans pounded through the hated Berlin wall. If we ask young people today about the Wall, they will surely think that we are talking about the wall the Israelites have built. 24 years – or at least 23 1⁄2 – is a short period of time in history, but it is, in fact, very long in politics if we think of the enormous changes we have had in Europe, which has made possible a completely different cooperation in foreign, defence and security policy in the Nordic countries. Have we forgotten that there were two Germans, that we had an iron carpet across Europe, that we had the Soviet Union, that there were no free Baltic states, that we had a Czechoslovakia? The fall of the wall represented the new order in Europe in many ways. Defence and foreign policy also changed. Cooperation across previous borders was possible. Today, the three independent Baltic countries are members of NATO and the EU, and countries that we could not have imagined could enter NATO are actually NATO members. The end of the Cold War gave us new opportunities and challenges in our foreign policy, in our neighbourhood policy. Today, defence policy is among the most dynamic areas of cooperation in the Nordic region, a cooperation that takes place within the framework of and with respect for the policy of alliances and the anchoring of foreign policy in each country. Norway, Denmark and Iceland are members of NATO, Sweden, Finland and Denmark are members of the EU, Denmark is not participating in EU defence policy, but Norway, which is not a member of the EU, does. So this is a complicated matter, but it does nothing in relation to the dynamic, pragmatic, goal-conscious, results-oriented and concrete cooperation that is currently being exercised between the Nordic countries, and that we have just heard the description from the Minister of Defence. Because solution-oriented and practical cooperation has come a long way, and in many ways, there has probably also been a cooperation that started between the agencies, that is, between the defenses, to say the same. The Council of State said that the dialogue on security policy issues has also become close and good. I think that's very, very important, because it also happens in parallel in the field of foreign policy. There is very close and good contact between the foreign ministries in the Nordic region, and it also happens on a very informal basis, which I will come back to a little. Nordic Defence Cooperation, or NORDEFCO, was, as the Council of State said, established in 2009. Today, Finland has the Presidency, Norway takes over. NORDEFCO practices in many ways – to call it ‘smart defence’ on a Nordic basis, or between the Nordic countries, in addition to what we have now heard from the Council of State, training, often in NATO, capacity or capacity cooperation, we have NASAMS and the Archer artillery system, we have cooperation in Afghanistan, we have cooperation in East Africa, and we have the EU Battle Group. This list is really very long, and I just mentioned a little bit. Although Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are not members of NORDEFCO, the Nordic countries also have some cooperation on defence with the Baltic countries. That was well-informed by the Council of State. On 5 April 2011, the five Nordic Foreign Ministers agreed on a declaration of solidarity. The then Foreign Minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, called the declaration a ‘building stone’ in Nordic cooperation. It states that ‘it is natural for the Nordic countries to cooperate in a spirit of solidarity to meet the challenges of foreign and security policy’, a cooperation to complement existing European and Euro-Atlantic cooperation. For a number of years, the Nordic Council has been concerned with more parliamentary inclusion and anchoring of Nordic defence cooperation, and for that matter also of Nordic foreign cooperation. Today's presentation and debate are part of a scheme in which all Nordic parliaments will have a defence debate during the year, i.e. a debate on Nordic defence cooperation. At the end of September, the Nordic Council Bureau and the chairperson of the National Defence Committees – in Norway, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence – will hold a round table with the Defence Ministers and Heads of Defence at NORDEFCO in Finland, in order to hold a debate and take concrete decisions at the Nordic Council's session in Oslo later in the autumn. We believe that the Nordic Council must become a real driver in international and defence cooperation in the Nordic region. Therefore, foreign and security policy and defence policy are also priority tasks in the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council for 2013 – we have the Presidency of the Nordic Council. Let me also mention that there is an increasing and absolutely necessary Nordic cooperation on civil protection and social security, including civil-military cooperation. Here the Nordic Council held a seminar in Stortinget on 20 March, where the Norwegian Minister of Justice explained the Nordic cooperation. The Ministers responsible will meet in Stockholm at the beginning of June in order to draw up a so-called Haga II declaration, the first update following the Haga declaration of 2009. This cooperation must also be consolidated by Parliament. The Nordic Council believes it is important that we record – including at the June ministerial meeting – our views on the coordination and use of each other’s resources also in Nordic cooperation on preparedness. The Nordic countries are well-developed and advanced societies, making us robust in many ways, while modern societies are very vulnerable. Nordic cooperation in preparedness will make us stronger nationally, but will also contribute to increased overall competence, both in defence and civil protection and in civil-military cooperation. This is a competence we can also apply to other arenas, for example. in the context of the EU. An effective Nordic environment also requires good contact with the EU institutions. It is also clear in the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council. The NordForsk Research Council has also launched a Nordic research programme on cooperation on social security, preparedness and defence. I initially said something about cooperation in these fields being informal, both between governments and with regard to parliamentary cooperation. I then disregard the cooperation that exists between foreign committees and defence committees on a European basis. But in the Nordic region there is no Council of Ministers in these fields. I would like to add that the Bureau of the Nordic Council has also agreed that it should not be a Council of Ministers, because we believe that this cooperation works best as the Council of State has now described it: formally, but in terms of results, concretely and objectively. It's like a very dynamic collaboration that continues and evolves. We aim to ensure that our parliamentary anchoring and our parliamentary participation are independent of a Council of Ministers and without a Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1339	I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. It is a useful overview of a cooperation that has evolved so to speak under the radar, in the sense that it has been absent in the media image and the public debate. It is actually an expression that there has been a development of cooperation that has been unproblematic, when it can grow in the pragmatic way it has done. It is probably 24 years since the Berlin Wall was demolished, and the security policy landscape in Europe changed its character. It has been 19 years since our neutral neighbours, Sweden and Finland, joined the European Union and thus got their security policy anchoring westwards. It is four years since the Stoltenberg report was presented, with 13 proposals for closer cooperation in the Nordic region on defence and foreign policy – themes that were taboo in Nordic cooperation until the Berlin Wall broke down and the Iron Curtain across Europe was torn aside. Today, most of the proposals of the Stoltenberg report have been either followed up or under follow-up — including the declaration of solidarity, which was perhaps considered the most demanding due to the NATO membership of three countries. «A quantum leap», Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide characterised it as, what has happened, during the recent Nordic Council meeting in Stockholm. While we have long had foreign policy cooperation out there, in the UN, NATO and the EU, defence cooperation at home has evolved from below and in a pragmatic way. State councils mentioned the merger of the Air Force with the Swedes – now also with Finns – as one example. So creatively it's been allowed to think about this, that a division of responsibility has been proposed between our three defence forces: the Finns take care of the Army, the Swedes take care of the Air Force and we take care of the Navy. Well, that's hardly how far, at least not as long as Sweden and Finland are outside NATO. But it illustrates how the mental barriers have gone. Norway has made the most changes in its defence, but Sweden and Finland are coming after it. We not only have a close geographical and cultural proximity and a comprehensive common history – we also face common challenges in terms of defence, namely costs. The Council of States now pointed out that many countries in Europe now have to cut their defence budgets due to emergencies, financial crisis and debt crisis. But the economic challenges are also for countries that are not in the situation of many of our neighbouring countries. Every new generation of weapon systems costs a lot more than the old ones. Even for solid economies like the Nordics, it could be an economic burden that could become difficult to bear in future generations. Therefore, we should look at closer cooperation on equipment and capacity, where greater scale can bring benefits. We should do more to develop a common defence concept. We have large areas, few people, good economy and are far ahead technologically. Industrial cooperation in the defence industry, where Norway and Sweden, in particular, are already well advanced, can bring large-scale benefits and huge benefits: lower costs and higher industrial revenues. Cyberattack is a good example of cooperation. In cyberspace, we are under attack every day, and it poses an ever greater threat. This is an obvious candidate for closer cooperation. The establishment of a Nordic-grade communications network between the Nordic national authorities, GovCERT, has given us an important instrument for alerting, analysing and preparing the necessary measures against digital attacks in a safe and effective way. This is a positive first step towards strengthening Nordic cooperation on digital security. Nordic cooperation is based on trust between countries. Therefore, we can overcome the challenges of different alliances. Our NATO membership does not prevent us from working closely with Sweden and Finland. They, on their side, do not see that their lack of membership hinders close cooperation with us and the alliance. Your relationship with NATO is like our relationship with the European Union: we do not want to be a member, but we want to be a member. For example, the decision on Swedish and Finnish participation in NATO air surveillance of Iceland from 2014 shows how to agree on pragmatic cooperation across alliance borders. NATO membership places some restrictions on Article 5 obligations. Nevertheless, we see that it is possible to make a declaration of solidarity between us, because it should be unmistakable today that we should be idle if one of our Nordic neighbours is hit by a crisis. Fortunately, the security policy situation in Europe today is so unlikely to represent Article 5 of NATO as an obstacle to our being able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1356	I'm not going to make a terrible long post, but I want to point out a few things that are taken up in this statement, for which I would otherwise thank the Council of State. It was a useful and good account. I would like to start by pointing out that Europe has undergone major changes in recent decades and Europe is going to undergo major changes in the coming decades. For that reason, it's worth remembering that we have a mutual defence guarantee with NATO. It has benefited Norway, and we have also been a good contributor to that cooperation, and we need to continue that. That's why it's important that we don't forget or down-prioritize that trail, while of course we also have the ability to keep our minds on this with the possibilities and benefits of cooperation with NORDEFCO. There are some challenges there too in terms of our NATO relationship. There are countries in the NORDEFCO co-operation — as the Council of State was involved — that are not related to NATO. It could have been a wish that perhaps the countries that are not in the NATO track had been influenced to come there, so that we could be even stronger in view of the challenges, but also the opportunities that lie in cooperation in the Nordic region. Governments were involved in this with resource use, and it is very good that the Nordic countries can have a common resource use and think about this with equipment, exercises, material and acquisitions. At the same time, it is important for Norway that we do not let it go at the expense of the competences that our defence personnel must and should have. We must not downgrade it because we may have cooperation with other Nordic countries. On the contrary, we need to make sure that our defence is competent and has the right people, so that we can meet the challenges ahead – despite the fact that we have a cooperation in NORDEFCO. It is important in view of the security policy challenges that lie, among other things. In the north, Norway is in a very unique position in our region. So I want to get into this with participation in international operations. Yeah, it's fine. I think the Council of State kept a good track of this issue, that we are working together in the Nordic region on this, and that we can be complementary. That's very good, and we have to keep doing that. State councils were on a theme that is quite important for the Progress Party, and it is the treatment of veterans – in the extension of that very issue. If I remember correctly, I believe she said that Norway had been boasted of the way we care for our veterans. Yes, it's done a lot for the veterans, but there's also a good job to do before we can hit our chests and be happy with the work we're doing for the veterans in Norway. I ask the Council of State to take it back to the department and maybe think and reflect a little bit about it. Because even if we get praise from cooperating nations for what we do, there's always room for improvement. Then I would like to say that in order for cooperation in NORDEFCO to be more powerful, and in order to take advantage of the opportunities that lie there, both military and civil protection, it is important to focus on social security and practice, and to focus on it, and to exercise the right things at the right time, and in this way to think about the possible threats that lie there, but also on what opportunities lie ahead of us – among other things. this with surveillance and search and preparedness, as we saw an example from Kebnekaise for some time ago, with the tragic event there. It showed good cooperation between Norwegian and Swedish military forces. As I said, I just want to make the strong call that we do not see ourselves blindly in this cooperation, but of course we take with us the most important cooperation that Norway has had and must have in the future, and that is our relationship with NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1375	I'm not going to spend time talking about all the practical areas where we work together, because the Minister of Defence has already done so in an excellent way. I would rather use the time to talk a little bit about both the strength of Nordic defence and security cooperation and the challenges facing cooperation. There is no news of Nordic cooperation. There has been some form of Nordic cooperation in all international operations since the Korean War, but to varying degrees. We also know that what really gave the start to the current Nordic defence cooperation was the Norwegian and Swedish Defence Manager who together looked at practical opportunities for enhanced cooperation. This has been a bottom-up initiative based on practical solutions, identifying real added value for each country and for the sum of countries. I think it is important also in the continuation not to overlook the Nordic defence cooperation with too many political ambitions that will be nothing but that will not materialize in real cooperation. It's been an interesting spring. The representative Svein Roald Hansen and I attended the meeting that Marit Nybakk mentioned, where there was a big, and I would say good, discussion about Nordic defence cooperation, and very many participated in the debate. It is obvious that cooperation is getting closer and closer in many areas. The area where perhaps the strongest development is now seen is within exercise and training, with different capacities and in all areas of defence, and the area where cooperation can be developed much more in the future may be particularly in the cyber arena, where the need for close cooperation between the Nordic countries is seen. I also attended this meeting of the Nordic Council at a meeting with Swedish defence minister Karin Enström and two Swedish researchers – a round table discussion on Nordic defence cooperation. There are many interesting aspects, but the researchers also pointed to three questions that I think it might be interesting to travel in this context. From the outside they ask, among other things.What problem is the Nordic solution? And it's an interesting question to travel because it'll matter to the development of NORDEFCO. Is it because we need more defence because we cut our budgets, or is it because we want new roles, for example. in the Arctic or elsewhere? The second question or issue is that very many of the cooperation projects are bilateral between Nordic countries, rather than co-nordic ones. It's also an interesting point, which repeats itself elsewhere in Nordic cooperation. And the third and really most important question was how to deal in the long run with the fact that countries have different links with different alliances, and especially with NATO? I think the Minister of Defence was exemplaryly clear in his statement that although it would be difficult, almost impossible for any Nordic country to sit still and look at Nordic neighbours in some way come into a difficult situation, it is nevertheless that no military guarantees have been issued. For a NATO country such as Norway, it will be absolutely essential to stress that the declaration of solidarity does not in any way replace Article 5 for Norway and that the borders will go where there is sudden uncertainty, whether Norway will be a credible alliance partner in NATO, or where it can be seen in other ways that the limits of Article 5 are being challenged. There is no doubt that in NATO there is also an interest in increased Nordic and otherwise regional cooperation because it is seen to contribute to strengthening the alliance as such, but there must never be any doubt as to where our primary alliance relationship is, and there must never be any doubt as to how Norway would react in an Article 5. There are many aspects of Nordic cooperation that are interesting in other contexts than NATO. I noticed that the Minister of Defence was particularly concerned about Nordic cooperation in the UN context, but did not talk about Nordic cooperation in the EU context. Well, as interesting and topical as participating in a United Nations force in Mali, it was for the government at some point to discuss the EU's training mission in Mali, precisely because we could participate there in a much stronger Nordic context with countries we operate with, practice with and train with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1396	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for an important presentation. It is a well-known fact that SV is a strong supporter of close Nordic cooperation, both politically, culturally, socially and security policy. The Council of State said that cooperation has evolved both in breadth and depth. We're happy about that. We have a common history, partly common language, and no country in the world has been at war with each other for as long as Sweden and Denmark. Yet we are now living in a peaceful corner of the world. We're going to be happy and do everything we can to keep. Even during the cold war, when we, as NATO countries, were neighbours to the Soviet Union, the level of tension was lower here than one could fear. That was enough because, as a small country, we too dared to oppose the deployment of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. Now that the United States is more orientated towards NATO, and less towards Europe, and that many are cutting their defence spending, this will of course be important in the future. But that doesn't mean that the Nordic region as a region becomes less important. On the contrary, the North Region effort that the government has undertaken — and for which SV has been one of the drivers — is a proper emphasis, precisely because the north areas are becoming increasingly important for the security policy assessments we are going to make. It's important to see this in a Nordic context. Climate change and less ice in the north allow these transport years to open up. This means both environmental policy and security policy challenges, which we must actively discuss. There will be great interest – also strategic interest – in these areas in the future. Then it is important to bear in mind that the enforcement of our sovereignty in these areas should be primarily civil, if we have a strengthened North-Area Action in defence policy. It is by good management and use of the sea areas that we get legitimacy. Norway shall not contribute to the development of a militarisation of the northern regions. Our key day-to-day security policy challenges are addressed this way, not through NATO membership. We have a good and tidy relationship with Russia. In negotiations with Russia, we have been clear, predictable and tidy, and we have stood by the demands. It has, for example, made possible the conclusion of the historical split-line agreement. The development of our neighbourhoods is of common Nordic interest. That is why the work of the Nordic Council and the Arctic Council is so important. In the future, we should place more emphasis on security policy in this work as well. Norway is served by a good and clear security policy relationship with all Nordic countries, regardless of the other alliance policy. Although we are a member of NATO, and Sweden is not, it will, as the Council of State said, be almost unimaginable that a situation that threatens one country's security does not affect the other. The stability of our part of the world comes as a result of good cooperation and good neighbourliness, and we have to work to maintain that. Therefore, SV's objective is closer Nordic defence cooperation and a common Nordic security policy declaration of solidarity, in line with the Stoltenberg report. We are pleased that several parties have expressed similar objectives, such as: The Labour Party Marit Nybakk did last November. We hope that this discussion will continue, even outside the storeroom. Regardless of the view of NATO membership, future responses to our security challenges and opportunities are stronger in the neighbourhoods than they have done before. Closer cooperation will then be needed in many areas. I have been with and discussed Nordic cooperation for a long time in Stortinget, for example. The discussion of shooting areas in the East, as was said in its time, was completely impossible because we could not cooperate with the Swedes, would, in the light of today's debate, look completely different. There are many good opportunities in that cooperation that we haven't used well enough for now, but we should use them in the future in a way that is less influenced by the old thinking that you couldn't cooperate across the different alliances we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1417	Let's see. Security and defence policy has become an increasingly important part of Nordic cooperation. The Christian People's Party welcomes a closer Nordic cooperation in this area. At the same time, there must be a clear parliamentary dimension to Nordic cooperation in defence and security policy between governments. Preparedness and social security require and have been given increased focus in Nordic cooperation. It is now both political and economic will to develop the Nordic defence capacity. The Christian People's Party welcomes this. Among other things, we note the discussion about how the Defence can cooperate on civil crisis management. Cooperation should, of course, take place with respect for the alliances of the different countries and the starting point of foreign policy. At government level, foreign and security cooperation channels have been established. It is important that this work is also transferred to the other elected bodies, and cooperation must be made more systematic and results-oriented. The Nordic Declaration of Solidarity is an important building block in Nordic cooperation, I would say the very superstructure of Nordic security and defence cooperation. The declaration is important, not least as a complement — but not as a substitute for — the cooperation that takes place within the framework of NATO and the EU. Then you can ask yourself whether the declaration is really political, or whether it is only symbolic policy. The Nordic Declaration of Solidarity is a political declaration of will. What kind of real force is behind this statement? It would have been desirable for the Council of State to elaborate on this. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the declaration has a real political, long-term effect. It is worth noting the Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt's statements in Riksdag on 13 February this year. Here he stated that Sweden would not be passive if a disaster or attack were to hit a member country or a Nordic country. For example, Bildt said:\t\t You can change «We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We shall be able to provide and receive support, both civil and military." Are we there today? How do we relate to this? It might have been interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on this. The Swedes clearly state that they want to go beyond the present declaration of solidarity. They will therefore use a sense of solidarity similar to that expressed in the Treaty of Lisbon. Is there any reason why we should not be able to have similar real political solidarity between the Nordic countries? The progress of this work seems somewhat weak, and I would like the Council of State to expand this further. Now is the time to take new steps. We have the good NORDEFCO cooperation. We also have a clear desire among Nordic parliamentarians to strengthen cooperation on social security, crisis and preparedness cooperation and to strengthen Nordic cooperation on digital security. This provides a good basis for, and shows the need for, a clear Nordic declaration of solidarity. Finally, quite briefly on the Nordic marine monitoring system. Both Norwegian and Nordic parliamentarians have been concerned about this, and the matter has been addressed in the Nordic Council context. Here one has not yet managed to create a good dynamics. We see that the open part is launched and is operational. The question is, however, whether the State Council can say more about the status of the planned closed section. This is a project initiated by the U.D., but now under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. What is the status of this work? Finally, I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. It shows that the government is taking the Nordic defence and security policy seriously. In the Nordic Council of Ministers and in the Nordic Council of Ministers there is a great deal of focus on this now. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to keep the pressure up, so that the political intentions get concrete real political content.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1446	I would like to thank the Council of States for a good and useful presentation, a statement on the importance of defence and security cooperation in the Nordic region today. On 5 April 2011, foreign ministers from the five Nordic countries agreed on a Nordic declaration of solidarity. The declaration was a direct follow-up to proposals in the so-called Stoltenberg report, which states that it is natural for the Nordic countries to work together to meet future challenges in the field of foreign and security policy. Countries undertake to assist each other in areas such as man-made disasters, digital attacks and terrorist attacks. The declaration is historical and represents an important step towards closer cooperation in the Nordic region. Also in the field of defence policy, a lot has happened in recent years. The Nordic countries share history, traditions and attitudes. The countries are advocating democracy, equality, human rights and the principles of the rule of law. Regional stability as well as international peace and security are, as we know, common Nordic objectives. The Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO has been a success, starting from the same point of view and having a natural connection to each other. The driving force is to achieve concrete results. There are no fundamental limitations on how cooperation can be developed as long as each country retains its national decision-making authority over its own operational capacities. Threats to peace and security are best avoided in common, together with each other and others. One of many concrete results is the extensive training and training cooperation on the air side, the so-called Cross Border Training. CBT means that the Nordic countries exercise together in each other’s airspace without having to apply for a permit on a case-by-case basis. The idea is that joint exercises between the Nordic countries should be planned and carried out with as little administration as possible, just as we do when we practice nationally. Finnish, Norwegian and Swedish air defence have been practicing together for several years under CBT North. An agreement between Denmark and Sweden on CBT South was signed in November 2012. The aim is for such an agreement to cover the whole of the Nordic region in the long term. That would be a great step forward. CBT is an excellent example of the Nordic spirit of cooperation and of what you can get together. The experience of community exercises is very good. They have created an effective exercise efficiency that develops the ability of countries to operate together. This type of cooperation strengthens the operational capacity and ability of the Nordic countries to succeed in sharp situations. Defence cooperation NORDEFCO is not an alternative to cooperation and partnership with NATO and the EU. Nordic cooperation is a complement to existing structures. Cooperation makes the Nordic region together stronger and increases its ability to influence also in large international contexts. Among other things, the possibilities for a Nordic contribution to a UN-led operation are examined. Countries are committed to improving the UN’s ability to meet today’s international challenges. Only in the last year have we seen more examples of how the outside world has changed rapidly, and how conflicts in regions far from the Nordic region have a direct impact on the interests of the Nordic countries. There is a need to address the new challenges in the community, thereby achieving greater impact for common views. Defence cooperation NORDEFCO has progressed by developing easily and flexibly. It is about exercises, industrial cooperation and joint contributions to operations. Our ability to provide and respond to crises and disasters has improved in several specific areas, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1473	On the newscasts this morning, we heard that The Syrian Electronic Army has attacked The Observer and private bank accounts in England and other civil institutions in the United Kingdom. It brings me to a problem which, through such news, feels close: the issue of cybersecurity and social security. It is a topic addressed by the Nordic Council in its opinion of the April 11 thematic session, on which the Nordic Council Conservative Group has been involved and working since 2012. This is an area that I think poses particular challenges, because it is not just about military cooperation in understanding the cooperation between military organisations in the respective countries, but because it meets much broader and involves more departments, more social sectors. The digital space opens up completely new opportunities for good and bad. While digitisation is a major advance on the well-being of citizens, we also see that our societies are becoming increasingly vulnerable. Digital attacks represent a great threat – whether it is a foreign power for more military purposes, as we saw, for example, in the war between Russia and Georgia, where the Georgian state apparatus was completely shut down in a few minutes, or we are talking about data crime between citizens or sabotage from terrorist networks with political agendas, as we have an example from today's news. Cybersecurity is one of the most recent threats of our time, because it can travel without the necessary war situation. There is a much lower threshold to want to damage and a lower threshold for its consequences. It is a framework independent of national borders and demarcated sectors of society. Unlike traditional military defence, cyberattacks can be done more based on technical competence and smartness than necessarily on the strength of traditional military capabilities. The cyber enemy need not be particularly resourceful economically or industrially in order to be dangerous, and the cyber enemy can be almost anyone, regardless of the traditional enemy image between nations. All of this places great demands on cyber defence in terms of being technically at the forefront – high efficiency and, not least, significantly more in-depth relationship building and more cooperation with the civil sector, are central. Cyber defence in Norway, for example, must be seen as a natural part of the corporate cluster dealing with data security in the civil sector. This could be companies within banks, payment services, or – for that matter – Norwegian Typing. Cyber defence at Jørstadmoen has, in this context, developed close cooperation with the Centre for Social Security at the University of Gjøvik – part of a wide-ranging network of security specialists. The very high level of expertise, cooperation relations and, in particular, the need to acquire experience and knowledge from other countries make Nordic cooperation in this area important and necessary. We have growing cooperation between CERT organisations, and the development of Nordic information-sharing networks must continue. Both NATO and the EU have established specific centres of excellence, or the Centre of Excellence, for cyberterrorism, and Finland has recently taken a decision on a strategy for cybersecurity with a high focus on international cooperation. Just as we now see that practical defence cooperation in the Nordic countries is growing above traditional defence, so we also need to step up our efforts for cyber defence and for the respective national institutions working towards social security in general. Again, it is important to find a practical starting point where there is a greater need for direct contact between those operating in these areas than necessarily to establish large formal superstructures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1496	Since I joined our delegation to the Nordic Council last autumn, I have been particularly impressed by the scope of Nordic defence and security cooperation, which the debate today has also supported. I also think it is very positive that social security and preparedness in this context are now getting increasingly needed and common attention. This, therefore, resulted in – as several have been here earlier – an opinion from the Nordic Council of Ministers in Stockholm earlier this month. This is offensive and promising, and I believe that there is a great potential for increased joint nordic engagement in social security and preparedness. That's how we'll be stronger in many ways. We will have better skills, can use each other's capabilities when needed, and learn together – practice and learn together. We will be better equipped to detect and avert attacks and to deal with demanding situations. Not least in the digital community, we are facing common threats, which Olemic Thommessen spent a lot of time in his intervention. The Stockholm opinion also points to more integrated infrastructure. There is already close cooperation in cyber and information security and in the fight against cyber crime in the Nordic context. I believe that developments will quickly demand and show the need for further joint efforts in this field. Either in terms of cooperation against cyberterrorism or in terms of other efforts in the field of social security and preparedness, we need to ensure that obstacles that limit our common ability to prevent and deal with severe natural events, major accidents and intentional incidents such as terrorism and cyberattacks are removed. The Nordic Council points out that border barriers need to be reduced so that reception from and contributions to host nation support can take place as we wish in terms of coordination and sharing of resources. In this context, I believe that it is also important to integrate the opportunities of voluntary rescue and preparedness organisations to set up and make cross-border efforts here in the Nordic region. Today, we would face unfortunate obstacles, and we cannot wait to address them until the day we may be prevented from effectively helping what you want in a critical situation. In the Nordic dimension, too, we need to include in social security and preparedness work the importance of supporting the voluntary organisations and engage in dialogue with them on Nordic border barriers. At the meeting in Stockholm, it was also said that more research would be needed on social security. I strongly support that. More focus is needed, not least in the area of information security. In this context, and when researching, it is important that the operational emergency seats are involved and involved in good cooperation – including in the field of research. It is important, as Olemic Thommessen said; we have strong environments in Norway. They have also shown to the full that they have a heavy international position when we look at what teacher powers, professors, and not least what students go to these educational institutions. We have a lot to contribute, and together with Nordic cooperation actors, we should be able to get even better. The Nordic Council is committed to increasing the awareness of civil-military cooperation. That's right and necessary. Then it means a lot to civil protection that Nordic security and defence cooperation is so functioning and effective. I will give tribute to ten President of the Nordic Council, Marit Nybakk, for helping to bring the area of social security into the Nordic Council, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation, and I think we have had a good and important debate for a safer Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1513	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1516	The aim of all defence cooperation, and in particular solidarity agreements, is to achieve greater security together, which is greater than each country alone achieves. That is why we are part of NATO, animal-acquired historical experience is the basis for this. What the Minister of Defense said was a reminder that there is a lot of the Nordics can do together. We can train together and monitor together, and when it's ready, make purchases together. However, the Nordic region is not a significant size, nor is it a military one, in a larger threat picture. It was therefore with great interest that I listened to the Minister of Defence's assessment of a Nordic declaration of solidarity, as mentioned in the Stoltenberg report, what it might mean in a situation of military aggression or in a situation of threat of military aggression. I think the Minister of Defense was exemplaryly ready. A Nordic declaration of solidarity is not appropriate for such a situation. I agree. What is more, such a Nordic declaration of solidarity on military assistance could create confusion about the relationship with Article V of the NATO Pact. The Minister of Defence has, in his speech, buried the Stollenberg report's proposal 13, which was just designed for military aggression. The statement we have heard is reassuring and represents a great advance from the first immediate debate we had here in Stortinget just after Stoltenberg's report was published. When, in a previous speech, the representative Karin Andersen expresses hopes that it may nevertheless develop strong military and security cooperation, most notably in competition with NATO, and having regard to the proposals of the Stoltenberg report, it must be referred to proposal 13, which is in fact dismantled and harmless in this Chamber today. I am pleased that the other debate, the other participants in the debate, has underlined the importance of Norway's relationship with NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1529	I want to thank you for a lot of good posts. As it seemed for quite a long time, there was a very broad consensus on just the Nordic defence cooperation. I just want to stress that in the case of the Nordic Declaration of Solidarity, it does not include military attacks, nor has it done so in the past. It's not a burial, it's just a clarification. More have indicated that this should not be an alternative to NATO. No, of course not. A question was asked about what a Nordic cooperation would be the answer to – what is the Nordic answer? I want to say that a lot of people have been involved in all the positive things that can come out of cooperation. It's just working together that makes us get better and safer together. That's what's in all the work we're doing in Nordic cooperation. So this is definitely not a down-priority of NATO. There was also one who was concerned about the veterans, that we shouldn't hit the chest. No, we're not going to do that, but we're going to recognize what we've done, and of course what we're going to do. So to one thing that's about Nordic cooperation in the UN context. It's actually pretty important. We see, for example: that the Nordic countries – now it is not the UN, but it is NATO – in Afghanistan are distributed in many places. If we know that we're going to enter and cooperate in an operation, for example. If it were to become relevant in Mali – that is what we are talking about with the Nordic countries – it would be very wise to cooperate in advance both on clay and on all possible support capacities in order to form a larger unit and also to have better capacity together. In Sweden and Finland — it has been about adapting to NATO — they are partner countries in NATO. In this way, they are also concerned about training and training with NATO countries — and adapting to the equipment side. So this is not symbolism policy, it is absolute real policy. Nordic cooperation is positive and good in the same way as our membership in NATO is of course very important for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1544	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Defence on the status of Nordic defence and security cooperation be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1562	This spring there have been a number of health issues on the political agenda. It was especially Dagsnytt on March 12, 2012 that triggered my desire to put mental health on the agenda and to travel this interview. Then we heard about «Martin» who had to threaten suicide in order to avoid waiting before treatment. We know the waiting lists are long. 9 000 Norwegians are waiting for treatment, and the system for getting an hour is difficult in many places in the country. He called, but did not get an answer. While some people in desperation lie about their situation in order to get treatment, this means that others are pushed back in the queue because they do not have the opportunity to speak their own case. Many people with mental disorders get help — let’s be clear — but the need is greater in mental health. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1998–2008 was an important initiative in this field. Several people got help, but we didn't get in the way in all areas. As early as 2006, it was clear that a further 3,400 years of mental health work was needed to meet the needs of municipalities at that time. It was already clear in 2007 that there was a need for more than 2,800 dwellings and 1,800 annual works linked to follow-up in housing, as well as the objectives of the escalation plan. Over 13 000 people with mental illness had unmet needs for home care, and over 10 pst. of these people were seriously ill. Because we were not in the target in 2008, the Christian People's Party wanted to continue earmarking funds for mental health. The government chose a different solution and put the funds into the framework transfer to the municipalities. In recent years, there have been fewer annual work per capita for mental health work in municipalities for both adults and children. If we look at what the municipalities prioritise today, we see that they give priority to living with fixed staff and reduce efforts for home services, treatment, day centres and activity for adults. This is in contradiction with the Interaction Reform, which is largely about focusing on prevention and early efforts to prevent disease progression. In the case of children and young people, annual work on health and school health has been protected from decline. That is good, and it is good tones in view of the public health report that has come from the government. But we see that the capacity for treatment, follow-up, activities and cultural activities has been reduced. In hospitals there has been an increase in the number of outpatient hours, but an increase in the number of daily stays, according to the Mental Health Excursion Plan. We also see that patients are in hospital for a shorter period of time. Thus, in the last four years almost 500 days of specialist healthcare have disappeared. Fewer cases are in line with the intentions of the escalation plan, but only people with mental disorders suffer when one offer is built up before another is built up. We now hear from the municipalities that they need to deprioritise prevention and measures for children and young people in order to be able to receive those who were given more time in hospitals. We also see that there is a stronger turn for more outpatient teams. There's a lot of statistics I've now presented. I'm not really so concerned with statistics, I'm concerned with human beings, but in order for this discussion not to concern itself with the stories of individuals, we need statistics. There are many people who are totally dependent on getting help when they need it, either because they are seriously mentally ill, or because they have a new onset of disease that makes them need prompt treatment. I hope that this interpellation can be used to look forward to ensuring that the people who are struggling today, and who will wear off tomorrow, can get the help they claim from us as a big community. A little over a year ago, municipalities were given responsibility for somatic treatment in a completely different way: they pay for medical treatment. Municipalities pay for ready-to-print patients, but only within the somatic community, for those with physical injuries. Municipalities do not pay for those who are being treated for mental illness. Now it is asked whether some of these ‘somatic-economic’ instruments of the Cooperation Reform should also apply to people struggling with their psyche. There is a great deal of tension attached to whether and where appropriate when the government intends to introduce this. The reason for calling for such economic instruments is that, with the right financial means, mental health work in municipalities will be prioritised. The user organisation Mental Health, with which I met yesterday at the latest, is concerned about this. They say that since financial instruments do not include mental health, this field is also not given priority. The SINTEF report, which I have referred to in the inter-pelling text, warns against introducing the Financial Mechanisms of the Inter-action Reform now because it will prevent municipalities from focusing on measures such as prevention and early intervention. We know just how important it is to achieve sustainable development in health and care services. Why is financial models so important? Well, that's to make it better for people who struggle. We all live in a municipality, and in good local health services in mental health, we can help a lot more. So the sick ones are going to get the help they need through the specialist health service. Today, the designation of projects is often used for targeted actions. Perhaps it is possible to create a grant scheme for all municipalities in the country – to ensure that all municipalities in the country make such a bet, a bet that lasts over several years. It calls for those who work in this field. The Psychologists' Association calls for a permanent funding scheme for psychologists in the municipalities in particular. They want them to be included in other municipal services, such as health centre, schools, etc. To say it a little popular: out of the offices and into where people's lives live every single day. KS warns against using the same organisation and funding for people with mental disorders that we have used in the somatic environment after the Interaction Reform. Therefore, KS recommends pilots, both in order to identify the financial and organisational aspects. As mentioned earlier, we see that there has been an expansion of outpatient teams in the specialist health service. It's a good thought and a good tool. But then the central question will be who is responsible for these outpatient teams, whether it should not be a clearer responsibility for the specialist health service and not a shared responsibility with the municipalities. Many may suggest that some municipalities may have been overworked by the Interaction Reform in relation to very ill people with physical diseases. Maybe the pendulum may have turned a little too far for some of our municipalities and for health professionals who are also reaching as far as they can today? I think it's important to be aware of how sick patients the municipalities should be responsible for treating. But the most important thing is that the municipalities and mental health professionals are given greater power of definition in mental health related to this. For some of the main criticisms of the Interaction Reform, the specialist health service has the power to define patients when they are outsourced. I think we need to learn from that. My question to the Council of State is: how will the government give priority to mental health, so that everyone gets the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1598	Let me start by answering the question of interpellant: Yes, I want to ensure the priority of mental health. The task, the challenge and the possibility is to do it right. Good mental health work does not take place in an isolated space, which is integrated into society, integrated into the health system. We'll give the right help at the right time. We'll help prevent people from becoming mentally ill, and those who get sick will get good help. The systems must be rigged for this. The systems exist for humans – not the other way around. We always have to be system-critical. Within this field, systemic criticism has led to a new way of thinking about mental disorders and their follow-up. We are still in a transition – from a past with large institutions to offers that are closer to the life we live and where we live it. We will maintain, maintain and further develop the objectives of the escalation plan. This important field shall be ensured by the professional attention and economic development it deserves. I meet weekly professionals and patients and listen to their views. I want to commend all those who do an important job in this field. Thanks to their efforts, I am sure that we can do a good professional field even better. Psychiatric health problems are clearly emerging as one of today’s major challenges. Today we could hear the radio about a sharp increase in mental health in crisis-affected European countries. We now know – thanks to greater transparency – that each of us will experience a situation of mental problems through life, and to me it means that it concerns everyone. Therefore, the Community must and must take responsibility. Transparency is the way we have to go: openness to ensure more user involvement and through the less use of coercion, and transparency to promote the discussion of the professional challenges we face through the conversion of the field. In the last five years, we have continued the direction and values of the escalation plan. The direction is right — towards more and better local interventions and the reduction of traditional hospital functions. This is a global trend, supported by the WHO. New ways of working include outreach activities, flexible schemes, close cooperation between municipalities and specialists, a stronger user role, interaction with working life and school, and not least for a better understanding of what dignity entails. Never have so many people in our country been treated. Both the number of consultations, the number of people treated and the number of admissions have increased significantly in mental health protection for adults. The waiting time for adults has been stable, for about 55 days, for one year, while the waiting time for children and adolescents to outpatient clinic has declined markedly, from 77 days in 2008 to 56 days in 2011. The representative indicates that the growth in annual work in municipalities has been flattened since the end of the escalation plan. It gives cause for reflection. I refer to this in the cooperation bodies we have with the municipalities. At the same time, the SINTEF report shows that, where growth in annual work has been flattened, competence has increased. And that's also an important part of the picture. The government has continued the appropriations for competence and development actions in mental health with a focus on actions in municipalities. We grant approx. $800 million. kr in year. We see a marked increase in the number of employees with higher education. The recruitment grant for psychologists has led to a strong increase in the number of psychologists in the municipalities. The establishment of the National Centre of Competence for Mental Health has been important in increasing competence out there. The report also shows a positive trend in the involvement and cooperation of decision-makers in the field of mental health. The paper on quality and patient safety was dealt with in Stortingen last week, and the government presented the public health report last Friday. In both reports, we state that people with mental health problems should be able to live decent and most common lives and take a greater responsibility for their own lives and health. Good welfare systems, a safe growth environment and an inclusive and health-promoting working life are important prerequisites for preventing mental problems. These are health measures but anchored outside the health sector. Then, of course, specialist healthcare has an important role to play. DPS shall cooperate closely with the municipalities and follow-up patients with acute, complex and severe mental illness. Good lowthreshold services reduce the number of forced admissions and the use of hospitals. Hospitals shall have important tasks related to closed acute psychiatry, safety psychiatry – functions that DPS cannot perform. So it's like this, and of course, conversion means possibilities, but it also means challenges, we have to admit it. I have asked health regions to draw up plans for the implementation of the migration process and to ensure that the management requirements are met. Hospitals shall extend day-to-day preparedness in DPS and transfer treatment tasks and resources from hospital to DPS. This is particularly important: we should not have a situation where offers are built into hospitals without the municipalities building up. Close contact and close follow-up is the answer. Users, employees and municipalities shall be involved in the work in the best possible way. Interaction reform will help to strengthen supply, including for people with mental and drug problems. That's how it's been from day one. The Government aims at a gradual introduction of the financial instruments, as highlighted by the representative in his statement. ACT teams, emergency team ambulance teams at DPS and a number of interaction projects between specialist and community health services have been established. A separate metropolitan grant scheme shall trap persons with severe mental health disorders. I want to look forward and draw out seven grips that can help to do a good field even better: We want more regular psychologists in the municipalities. That is why we are continuing and strengthening the recruitment grant. The Association of Psychologists is concerned that psychologists in municipalities should work in a preventive, group-oriented and multidisciplinary way. I agree. Here, the full range of professional professionals must use their skills and play each other well. We want to strengthen health centres and school health services. In the Public Health Communication, the government announces a strengthening of the municipal sector by 180 million. kr in 2014 for that purpose. At the same time, we want to review the school health system so that the service can work as well as it can. We want to contribute to increased efforts for good, preventative lowthreshold services in municipalities. Through the empowerment of municipalities, we have laid the foundations for the development of good lowthreshold services, and more and more municipalities are testing exciting programmes for early intervention. The Health Directorate provides support through the Rapid Mental Health Programme. We need to get to it before the need for specialised treatment or notification of a medical emergency. Good examples are inspiring. We must ensure that good examples are made known, for example: through consensus conferences. We want better user involvement. Self-determination and participation are important for all people. In the Quality Communication, we stress that the starting point should always be the patient's needs and expectations. There has been a steady and positive development since the escalation plan. In January I met many user organisations, and they clearly informed me that we are not in target. So we're going to have a new recording meeting to get concrete action on real user influence. I want to facilitate that everyone – including people with mental disorders – can take more responsibility for their health and life. We want less coercion. Force is a heavy burden. Much coercion can be prevented through closer and better follow-up. Often, there are good alternatives to coercion. In 2013, I requested the RHFs to reduce the number of forced decisions by 5 pst. It's a start. At the request of user organisations, drug-free treatment options shall also be provided. I want to invite KS to a mental health partnership. In order to further develop the competence and capacity of municipalities, we need to play with them. Interdisciplinaryity, prevention, cooperation between municipalities and between municipalities and specialist health services require local anchoring, creativity and innovation. The government is going to do its part of the job through our professional, political and economic instruments. It is tempting to respond to the needs of municipalities in order to promote state escalation plans. I understand the intention, but after an escalation plan, it is also essential that the field finds its natural place in the overall health care system, that the further investment and – as I said in the introduction – the priority takes place there, in its context. Steady escalation plans may create an exceptional state. I don't think this field is worth it. 7th@item: inlistbox We want to strengthen cooperation with working life and school. The government continues to invest in mental health and work on its own follow-up plan, which we aim to present before the summer. In the main message Just ahead, the Ministry of Knowledge is highlighting the importance of the school as a health promotion and prevention area. Earlier today I visited the Fontenehuset in Oslo east. An important effort is being made here to help people with mental disorders get into work. Here is the experience that inspires repetition and further development. The font houses fill the critical gap in many people’s lives – the gap between being completely sick or completely healthy, a gap in which we can all find ourselves. I want to further strengthen this offer by increasing the grant to the Fontenehus network by 3 million. NOK 10 million in total. kr in year. I believe that we have a good mental health protection, but all disciplines must and must change and develop as new knowledge progresses. We have to periodically adjust the status – complement the broad picture we get through the windscreen, with a look in the rear-view mirror. We want a clearer status of the migration processes in mental health protection according to the escalation plan. I would therefore like to take the initiative to provide a broad overview of the current situation. In order to optimise the adaptation of the drug use, we will present a revised target picture in the mental health field in Norway. I will come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way. This government has provided a strong strengthening of the local economy in recent years. It's perhaps one of the most important promises we've made, also for mental health. We have all the prerequisites for success in good prevention and services in our country. We must follow developments closely, provide good incentives and listen to users and their relatives. It requires even greater transparency about mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1673	Thank you, Councillor, for a good answer. I am glad that the Council of State is so clear that yes, he will give priority to mental health. I welcome the seven concrete proposals mentioned by the Council of State. Before this interpellation, I posted on Facebook that I should address this matter, and asked: What are the main measures you think the Minister of Health should point out? Then I get two categories: that mental health needs to be integrated into society, as the Council of State said, and that mental health needs to be integrated into the entire healthcare system. We live our lives in society, but when we're sick, it also has to be manageable in healthcare. So that's consistent with what's been on social media this day for me. I am pleased that the Council of State says it is thoughtful that we now have an flare in the number of annual works in the municipalities. I'm glad he's taking it up when he's in the forums where it's to be addressed, and it's important that you have increased your competence. But my challenge is: if it doesn't just help to deal with this with KS or in other forums, what can the Council of State do? It is that we need several annual works for many of these points that the Council of State pointed to as its solutions to lifting mental health. Yes, as far as school health services are concerned, there are several annual works, but in the other areas, what does the Council of State think there? I also have another question when I hear the Council's answer. He says that the government will gradually introduce economic instruments into the interaction reform for mental health. Is the Council of State thinking about pilots, or does the Council of State think about organising it in the face of disciplines – picking out children and young people or some other, outpatient team, and running such a gradual introduction of economic instruments in today's interaction reform? I am pleased – and I also took it into account myself – that never so many people have received treatment. At the same time, we know that there is a need for treatment for those who do not receive treatment today. It's all the time driven by this sector, that we give those who are sick – whether they have a really demanding disease or are on their way into mental illness – the help they are entitled to and entitled to, at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1686	I'm glad that the debate here is consistent with the basic tone of social media. It's positive. There were good follow-up questions from the interpellant. I am concerned that we should ensure increased recruitment for this field, and then we must also have discussions about the care sector. It is an advantage that there will be recruitment with competence, so annual work for annual work must also be viewed against the overall competence. But then I believe that in this field as in others – which was also a theme in the care message – we also need to look for new care resources. By that I mean the civil society in which we live our lives, where there is culture, sport, associations – that is, a whole series of places where people can get help and find meaning. What you experience, for example: The font houses are that people are the resources of each other by being there, by contributing, giving each other dignity and giving each other a place. I think we need to make sure that there is no case for those who carry out such important tasks in the municipalities, but I don't think we get a one-to-one relationship between escalating and believing that this will give us an equal amount of mental health service again. We also have to venture to think about new things here. So the government announced in the report that we should introduce the financial instruments into the cooperation reform also in the field of drugs and mental health. There's no doubt about it. Let me say that there is no doubt that drugs and mental health are part of the interaction reform, but I am also listening to the local authorities' feedback on how this should be implemented. I am personally concerned about giving somatic – to use that word – an over-prevalence in relation to drug use and mental health. What we see from the Interaction Reform is that it draws attention to health in municipalities in addition to the health manager, also in the councillor, the planning and building seat and other areas that see them having a role in prevention. And then I see that it might be more complicated technically to make these drugs and mental health schemes than it is for somatic medicine. But we have to keep working on this. Pilots have a lot to do in many ways, but the danger with pilots is that you would like to take quite a while to see if they work. If someone has to fly pilots over a certain number of years, and others have to wait, we can get even more out of balance. But this I'm sure we're going to find a solution. In my post I used the wording a gradual introduction, and then we'll find the methods of the good dialogue we're used to having about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1701	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a theme that clearly deserves attention. In the health debate, there is often a high level of acute preparedness in somatic health and feeding rooms. Nobody asks if the hospital has time to accept a patient who comes in with an acute appendicitis, it is obvious that the patient is accepted and treated. Of course, it has to be like that if you're acutely mentally ill, too. We have to expect that to happen in the specialist health service. So there will always be a waiting time for non-acute accommodation, but of course it has to be as short as possible. Then it is important that we have good low-threshold offers. Several DPS have so-called patient-controlled beds, where the patient can accommodate himself. They experience a decrease in the number of posts which, in the next round, reduces the waiting time. It also creates safety for patients that they know that they can intervene when they need it. With regard to the inter-pellant’s concern that it is not in the mission document that mental health should increase more than somatically, it is appropriate to recall that, in his speech to health businesses, the Minister of Health stated that he wanted to move forward in mental health, and that the DPS should be able to perform all general psychiatric functions — including day-to-day emergency functions — and that more outreach and interdisciplinary teams could work closely with the patient. It is important that we not only look at the percentage increase, but also focus on the right treatment at the right time in the right place, and not least on the quality, as the evaluation of the escalation plan showed us. We understand that people think it is too long waiting for outpatient treatment, so it is good that the government in the 2013 budget has facilitated a growth of 6.5 pst. in public outpatient activities involving both mental health protection, drug treatment, laboratories and radiology. Of course, it is a message to health businesses that in the area of mental health protection and drug abuse too, outpatient activities need to be increased. But the very best thing we can do is to strengthen the low-threshold services, so people can get help before they get so sick that they need treatment in the specialist health service. It is also the clear message we get from the organisations in the field – they want to expand more in the municipalities. That is why it is good that the Minister of Health has announced that there will be 180 million. kr for the school health service. It was a wish that all the organizations in mental health had, when we had consultation with them here at Stortinget. The government has for several years had a grant scheme for psychologists in the municipalities. This year, 60 million is set aside. kr to this scheme. It helps many to get help early and avoid using the specialist healthcare service. We need to build on lowthreshold services and prevention. Several municipalities have launched successful projects. We have met with municipalities that have appointed psychologists to whom children and young people can use without having to go through a regular school. They have statistics that show that most people are doing two to three consultations, instead of having gone a long time and the disease had developed – with the additional burden it brings. The government has also proposed granting psychologists the right of referral to the specialist health service. This will, of course, make it easier for patients, who are not going to tell about their mental illness to several treatment providers, while at the same time becoming less bureaucratic and should shorten the waiting time for the patients. Norway appears to be the country in Europe that uses clearly the most resources on mental health protection. We're more than twice what most other countries use. We are concerned that resources should be used for quality healthcare and with a content adapted to the needs of users in the society in which we live at all times. In a modern service, hospital functions for mental health are integrated into general hospitals. There has to be a continued shift in mental health protection which involves moving tasks from hospital departments to the DPS. DPSs shall be further developed and maintained 24 hours a day, where appropriate in cooperation with other entities where local conditions so require. Further development of outpatient and outpatient functions and better cooperation with municipalities on municipal solutions are envisaged. Municipal co-financing is an important future measure for municipal investment. It is essential for the patient to experience the safety and predictability of treatment and organised healthcare at the time of the introduction of municipal co-financing in the field of mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1727	In a report from the Institute of Public Health Psychiatric Disorders in Norway: a public health perspective we can read that nearly a quarter of the population will suffer from an anxiety disorder during life, and that depression will affect one in five. If we're going to get a good mental health protection, we have to get help early. Many can tell me about a long struggle to find out where they can get help – and then stay in line. Too many wait too long, and the pain gets more severe during the waiting period, and the need for medication gets bigger than they think is good. There's a lot of talk about mental health, fortunately. The theme is not as taboo, and people's knowledge has improved significantly in recent years. Now you're not either completely crazy or completely normal. Most people now know that this can affect anyone, that you can get completely healthy, and that mental distress is all about everything from simple anxiety attacks and depression to heavy psychosis. Mental health is very complex, and it is demanding to provide targeted and correct help at the right level at the right time. Here I feel that we are failing. In January, SINTEF presented a report that shows that people are being printed out of luck’s psychiatric treatment faster than before. In recent years, municipalities have had to deal with several serious mental ills that were previously handled by specialist health services. The Sintef report shows that this means that prevention and lowthreshold services in municipalities are being lost in order to deal with them too early. This is very serious and will in the long run give us very big challenges. It's sad to witness that what we managed to build up with the psychiatry plan is now going to be gone. In particular, this is serious for relatives. They are making greater contact with us politicians than ever. They're desperate, angry, and saved. The path to help is seen as hopeless. I therefore support the interpellant 100 pst. in the questions asked here. It is a deliberate policy that has led to the building up of psychiatry. The priorities of the specialist health service have been removed, as are the earmarked funds of the municipalities. The Progress Party has maintained both parts of each year in relation to the treatment of the annual government budgets. A young girl I know well has been subjected to care failure, violence and sexual assault throughout childhood. Now she is 22 years old and is trying to clean up all the traumas and injuries her growth has caused her. The problem is that very few people have the skills that her situation requires. The few who know anything about this, have waiting times of at least one and a half years. In the meantime, she kisses and rushes, with the consequences that it has for her ability to succeed. We need to recognise that we lack offers, and that the waiting times are too long – and too often irresponsiblely long. People with complex mental disorders, young people with eating disorders and young people who suck themselves are examples of patient groups where the offer is very deficient, and which I believe the Minister of Health must address. Many have signs that are easy to see. There's kind of no doubt, here's someone who's hurt the soul. Follow-up and assistance should have been given early, before the problems escalate and become directly paralysing to the individual. I have talked to many who say that they have received help, but they have not received any help that has made any difference, and that it is frustrating to stamp around in a health care system in desperate search for health and constantly being referred to something that does not treat the reason why you started to cut or starve – what was the source of the pain. The number of suicides and suicide attempts is too high, we've discussed that several times in this room. Some of these cases come without warning, while very many have a direct connection with the lack of help and follow-up. The use of coercion is also clearly linked to the provision of assistance and follow-up rather than to the development of the disease. Therefore, the use of coercive variations around the country. Many of those who have been subjected to coercion never completely get over it – and it may seem that there is some of the worst things you can expose a person to. I recognise that in the future coercion will also be necessary to some extent, but I think it is necessary to reduce its use. This is simply about the fact that we do not have a well-developed offer, which means that we do not manage to get in early enough and give the right help there and then. The result may be more coercive, more medication, a lot of emergency procedures, high numbers of illegitimate and debilitating relatives. The psychiatric promise we got together gave us a lot of good. Let's protect what we got, while building up and strengthening the offer in line with our needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1765	I want to commend the interpellant for addressing an important question. Information that we have received that mentally ill people have to threaten suicide in order to avoid waiting for treatment is very serious. I think it reflects an offer in mental health protection that is deficient. This shows that there are large, unmet needs in some areas, although, as the Council of State also pointed out, much positive happens. I also think it is good that the Council of State now says that he will ensure the priority of mental health services. He mentioned several regular psychologists in municipalities, strengthening the health centre and school health services, and increasing efforts in lowthreshold provision and improved user involvement. It is entirely in line with the proposals made by the Right in this Chamber several times. It's good if it comes and gets developed, and we also get a survey of today's situation. I think it's important to move on. The challenges of drug addiction and mental health are great. In 2004, Gabrielsen of the Right pledged as Minister of Health to this large group that is struggling with mental illness. He introduced the principle that the growth of drug protection and mental health protection should be greater than the growth of somatic products, also called the ‘golden rule’. But in 2012, the same year that the Cooperation Reform was introduced, the Red-Green Government removed this leadership, and the result has not been delayed. Too many sites reduce treatment provision, although there is a need for more treatment sites, and the waiting time for treatment increases, which the interpellant was also in. Those who struggle with the double diagnosis of psychosis are the weak group in the welfare community. They sit at the bottom of the table when the funds are distributed and do not have strong press groups standing up and going on demonstration trains. Their voices don't sound so good. As the interpellant was involved, municipalities have been increasingly responsible for serious psychiatric patients as a result of the Interpellant Reform. The financing of the offer shall be gradually incorporated into the financial instruments of the reform. If that means that the municipalities get responsibility for these patients earlier than today, you still don't know. According to the Municipal Report, the Ministry cannot answer to which patients the municipalities are to be held responsible for or when a psychiatric patient is defined as ready-to-print from the specialist health service. I would like the Minister of Health to comment on this. Instead of introducing municipal co-financing for hospital treatment of mental disorders, as proposed by the government, we believe that there is a need to reintroduce the ‘golden rule’. There is a need to ensure that drug resource use and psychiatry are greater than the growth of somatic resources. In the field of mental health protection, there is an average waiting time of 55 days for adults and 57 days for children and young people. Although there has been a improvement in this area, waiting lists are still so long that they are unfortunate. It is a burden for the individual sick and for the dependants. We cannot accept that this weak group of patients is in a long line of treatment due to lack of capacity and poor supply. The Minister of Health talked a lot about public health, and that's good, but I missed the mention of mental health. When one introduced this public health communication, mental health was not so clearly highlighted. A commitment to mental health is one of the best investments in public health we can make. We know that 20 pst. of all sick leave is due to mental problems, and that 25 pst. incapacitation is due to mental illness. That so many young people are affected is serious and tragic. One of the most important things we can do is to renovate mental health and psychological services in municipalities – it is important to get in place. 40 pst. decision-makers say that they lack competence in this area. There is also a high level of underdiagnosis of mental problems such as anxiety and depression. That is why it is important to upgrade the psychological services in the municipalities, which the Minister of Health was also involved in. The right has addressed this many times, and we have also prioritised upgrading the psychologist service in the municipality in our budgets. The goal must be to build a better low-threshold service in municipalities, where it is possible to get help quickly, without referral from a doctor. It's about capturing those who are in danger, and giving them a qualitatively good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1793	Both the drug and psychiatry fields in Norway have been impacting the supply of healthcare to the population since the millennium. The most important has been the mental health escalation plan, the drug action plan and the Interaction Reform, which began to apply from 2012. Psychiatric health has been significantly strengthened through the escalation plan, and decentralised treatment has been developed. Own services for people with drug problems and psychiatric disorders were about non-existent in the municipal health service before the escalation plan, and it may be in the municipalities the biggest change has occurred. The evaluation shows that the escalation targets for mental health work in municipalities were achieved in most areas, but it also has some criticism that one has had a uniform focus on quantity and not on quality, and that there is not enough focus on older people. The targets in the escalation plan have also been criticised for being too ambitious. So the reality is that it has been a great bet, and that it has happened very well, but we have to recognize that there are still no real needs. There is reason to follow developments in the field of drugs and psychiatry very closely. In particular, we must follow developments in the provision of municipal services, in the supply of children and young people, and especially in the supply of the elderly. I want to show you an investigation that showed that the group that had the highest rate of suicide statistics was older men over 80 years of age. With the completion of the escalation plan, the ear tags have entered the framework and healthcare professionals no longer have explicit management requirements for prioritising stronger growth in psychiatry than in somatics, we need to ensure that the field is provided with the resources required by other instruments. I have received a lot of feedback from my area that there is apparently a reduction in the provision of specialist health services before the rush and psychiatry, but it is not built up in the district psychiatric center, either in the municipalities. We must have a review of this, as the Council of State also warns. It is a good thing that there is a will for a professional conversion of specialist services and conversion from bed services to district psychiatry, outpatient activities and mental health services in the municipalities, but this development must not go too far too quickly, and degradation must not take place until there is a corresponding and strong second-level supply. The interpellant takes up the fact that there have been episodes where patients mistakenly say that they have suicidal thoughts just to appear in the treatment line. It's obviously tragic, but I can understand that it happens, because this is a human being in a hopeless situation, and the waiting time is too long. It also shows, as demonstrated in the evaluation, that prevention and early intervention, including the strengthening of treatment provision for those with less severe suffering, have been one of the weakly developed aspects of the mental health escalation plan. The demand for mental health care is high, and providing assistance to all those seeking treatment is a challenge for health services. It is therefore important that the treatment system in the municipalities be further strengthened. We need to get more easily available low-threshold supplies for mild and moderate mental distress. The rapid health care pilot project is one example, the health centre is another preventive action, and since 2009, as many others have mentioned, there has been a focus on recruiting psychologists for municipalities. It is also good that we get a strengthening of the health centres and the school health services. It can mean a great deal for better prevention and early treatment of mental health problems in children and adolescents. And then I'll talk about the real estate. They have not so many mentioned here today, but they are in many ways the foundation of local health services, and they have a great responsibility for the provision of low-level mental health services. In the public health report presented, one acknowledges that mental health problems represent a significant public health problem, and one points out that prevention is most common outside the health services. It is a matter of having good welfare arrangements, a safe breeding environment, including working life and a health-promoting working environment, which are important means of preventing mental problems. Finally, I would like to stress that it is a political responsibility to ensure that the Russian and psychiatry fields are given the necessary priority. I believe that municipal co-financing in this field can also contribute to prioritisation in municipalities, but it is necessary to have a proper factual basis and secure models and resources before this is introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1814	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important issue. We have major challenges in this field. The latest figures at the end of 2012 showed that we had 9 000 adults and 3,400 children waiting to receive treatment. We see that there are fewer psychologists who have an operating contract, and the Psychologists' association reports a total of 1,400 breaches of the waiting list guarantee. The Public Health Institute says this is a loss for the Norwegian economy of between 60 and 70 billion. kr. Other figures show that of the disabled people in Norway today, a third can be associated with mental health. It is important that we organise our health services based on this, that we get much more direct help – without the long waiting times, without the long processing time – where people who may not fit into the squares of cows, forms, correspondence and fulfilment of the waiting list guarantee, which many may not be able to do. It is important to have competence in the first line service to tackle it. I think a lot of this is about the small challenges -- it's killing too many of us some time in life -- that become big challenges. One thing is the heavy diagnosis we can talk about, but everything else is about small challenges that get big because we don't have methods to deal with them. Making people able to deal with the small challenges – not primarily with pills, but perhaps with small resources – that are about tackling today’s challenges is important. Then it might as well be a good idea to have a psychologist who can talk to the man for two hours because the divorce is difficult, or have a good health sister, who can methods for how a teenager can sort his mind in his head. Søl visited the health sister service in Asker on Friday and saw how they worked with children so that with their own technique they could learn to sort out good and bad thoughts. It's called "separating the red and the green thoughts" – The big thing can imagine who were the bad ones, and who were the good ones. This is a method that helps a lot of children find ways to tackle the challenges. The left considers that a wide range of measures are needed in order to be able to lift this field again. We have a Document 8 proposal – which is now under discussion in Stortinget – on grants to psychologists in the first line service. We believe that the stepping-up plan that the Bondevik II government started should also be strengthened, and that the principles of prioritisation should be reintroduced, new pilot projects – which many have talked about – and new ways of working should be developed. I prefer to call it pilot projects, not pilots, because it tends to cause some confusion in the hall. Pilot projects can help to develop new ways of reaching those who do not necessarily have a severe diagnosis and who, hopefully, can be helped before they are diagnosed – manage to reach them. I think you need an escalation in family protection, and that you need much more information about mental health. The left has wanted a escalation plan with 1000 new health sisters over a four-year period. I notice that the government – based on the public health plan – has turned around and now believes that health sisters are important. I'm very happy about that. I think the primary health service, with both a regular who has a psychologist to work with, and a health sister who can teach both children and adult methods, and who can catch people much earlier, is important here. It is also important to combat coercion. I think that's a big challenge. It's about empowering professional environments. Its more education, its more competence, its more knowledge of human rights and its more basis for not using coercion in institutions, its less forced use. We also need more research in this area. But at the bottom, we may need a thinking about people being responsible for their own health, and about health not necessarily being looking for a diagnosis, but enabling people to just take responsibility for their own health. It's also about mental health, the ability to turn the red thoughts in a child's head into green thoughts, the ability to let children learn techniques, which they'll certainly earn on many times during life, when it's buttering. Because it makes for all of us sometime in life. Then it's about having the good methods of gaining power over your own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1835	Thank you for a good debate and for a good article, with recordings that complement the picture. That's what I've experienced in the last hour. I am pleased that the Council of State in its main post said that he would come back to Stortinget with a matter of today's situation. How it's going to be presented, and how to do it, we'll know later. I am glad that the government is not waiting, but takes seven steps to perhaps already intensify today's efforts. While we've had this debate, I've looked a little bit at these seven grips. There may be one challenge I want to give to the Council of State – what is involved in the interaction between specialist health services and municipalities. We know that there will be fewer hospital beds, in line with the escalation plan. We know that there will be more outpatient teams, in line with the escalation plan. We know that there will be several outpatient treatments, in line with the escalation plan. But then the Sintef report shows that fewer people receive treatment in the municipalities. Then we have this gap. Right here, I feel that we cannot face the future without getting an reinforcement. We build something down – without being able to build up treatment elsewhere. I want to finish my post that our lives must we live in society. Then it is vital that families – however they look – have a good framework, that we can be in education or in a job that is good for us and where we experience being cared for and seen. So I think it's important to develop the voluntary sector, which too many of us might be glued between busy everyday life. Getting the good experience, being in a slightly larger community I think is crucial. We know that this sector also has a lot to offer people who are struggling with their psyche – one or two days in a longer perspective. The voluntary sector must also bet on in this area. I know that the Council of State is concerned about this, especially in the russian area – we have discussed this before in this room – but I hope that you can also look at the voluntary sector, considering people who are struggling with mental illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1849	I would like to commend the interpellant for the debate and thank you for your contributions. A few comments. I would like to say to the representative of Kjønaas Kjos: No, there is no conscious policy to downgrade this sector – that was the words that were used. We're dealing with more than ever. We grant more than ever. We have bold objectives for both the correction, the device and the bet in this area. I respect those who think it should be a so-called golden rule. I understand the intention, but I think we should discuss this on a professional basis. Is that sure? When we define our objectives by defining such a rule in a very complex health system, with many different needs, which requires attention and treatment? It's not like we're powerless to prioritize mental health if we don't separate one field that's going to get higher growth. The reality is that, after removing this requirement, there has been higher growth in psychiatry and drug use than in somatic settings — through the annual use of resources. In the mission document – as in my talk about the hospitals on 30 January – I weighed this. This is a field of great political sensitivity where they take signals. There are several ways we can do this, but I'm open to having a prejudice-free discussion around this. I have to say that the representative Sjöli may not have heard all the broadcasts on Friday, when I launched the public health announcement. I put a great deal of emphasis on mental health as one of the phenomena that will dominate health challenges in the future, and where prevention and public health must be central. That's why the school health service is the flagship in the reporting regarding dollars, we can say. What we focus on there is not that they should primarily find physical things in the young, but that they have an alert look at the mental health situation, which we know is important to address. Psychologists in the municipalities are important. What has impressed me is especially where the psychologists have been working with the registrars and have given them the competence to have the security to get into these conversations. I think we have to work here because we have a wide range of people with the confidence and the insight that is needed to meet people who experience the little challenges – as Skei Grande quite rightly says – that we can get in there and show a way out. The offer of cognitive follow-up, which we now have in twelve experimental municipalities, shows that very many of those who come there and get the first help, the first call, do not come back, because they have received help. So that's what we're concerned about. I very much agree with Skei Grande that we must not go on the hopeless pursuit of diagnosis at any cost in any context. That's not always the right way to go. In relation to the interaction of hospital-specialist services, which the interpellant was engaged in, I would say that the agreements between the municipalities and hospitals are a good tool. Every municipality has it now. It can be a living document you can work with to share experiences and adapt how you work to prevent what we all agree to prevent: that someone falls between services that are built down somewhere without building up another one.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1870	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e1876	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e2147	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e2157	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e2167	The President here draws attention to the fact that it is the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left who are behind B in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e2184	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to start the process of winding up the county councils as an autonomously elected level of government and to allocate the tasks assigned to the county councils of the municipalities and the state.’ The right has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e2207	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy shall comply with the requests for a change of county affiliation from the municipalities of Iveland, Birkenes and Lillesand.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy requests that Evje and Hornnes hold a referendum on the county affiliation of the municipality and will take the result of such a vote.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e2230	In Case No: 3–5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-30.ana.ud1466e2242	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
