ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e94	Mr Freddy de Ruiter applied for welfare leave on Thursday 21 March. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Line Vennesland, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Line Friendsland is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e114	The representative Peter N. Myhre will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e117	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Ib Thomsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and myself on simple measures to increase the capacity of the national road network in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e122	The representative, Mr Korsberg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e125	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Solvency Horne, Ib Thomsen and myself, I would like to propose a national referendum on the Olympic Games in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e130	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e133	On behalf of the big business representatives Solveig Horne, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to propose a modernized book market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e139	The representative, Inbjørg Vosskensen, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e142	I will, on behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself make suggestions to complete the development of Rv. 9 with a yellow middle stripe, through the entire Valley of Seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e147	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e150	On behalf of Laila Davøy, Sylvi Graham, Trine Skei Grande, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I want to put forward proposals for measures to prevent young people from falling permanently out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e155	The representative, Nikolai Astrup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e158	On behalf of the representative Siri A. Meling and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a major report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e163	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e179	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 30 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that members of the Government be given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e190	When the Storting will now discuss the Communication on a comprehensive integration policy, it is possible to choose different approaches. We can start with the positive – what makes integration actually work better in Norway than in many other countries. We can have the main focus on success criteria and see how we can get more out of what actually works, or we can pick the opposite starting point, look with light and light after what has not worked fully as well, and dig down there. As rapporteur of the case, I choose the first one, as the message also does. It's the positive results that give the most truthful picture of today's diverse Norwegian societies, diversity and communities, or diversity and opportunities that my party's national meeting called it. That doesn't mean that everything is perfect, then we wouldn't need this big message. Everyone knows that diversity also poses challenges. But choosing a negative intake with a one-sided focus on what doesn't work gives us a distorted view of reality and doesn't bring us any further. It is a quality sign of Norwegian policy when almost the entire Committee emphasises that diversity and community are important for individuals, and at least equally important for society as a whole. In addition, there we are fully in line with popular opinion, as the Statistical Central Bureau measures every year, and from a positive point of view continues to move in a positive direction. A large majority of the Norwegian population regard immigrants as an important resource for Norwegian society, both in working life and with what they provide from their own culture. Then you can ask yourself what makes the level of conflict in Norwegian society as low as it is. The answer is probably relatively obvious. We're a society with little differences between people. We have a broad consensus on important values such as democracy, freedom of expression, equality and equivalency. A general objective of integration policy is for immigrants coming to Norway to experience respect and as part of the community with the duties and rights of other residents in Norway. This has meant that we, better than many others, have in a very short time managed to deal with relatively large population changes. In 1970, only 1.5 pst. by the Norwegian population, the background of migration. Today, this is increasing to over 13p.p., with a background from 219 countries and autonomous regions. By comparison, the number of UN member states is 193. The majority stress that successful integration is based on reciprocity in rights and obligations, that it is crucial for good social development that citizens are able to take responsibility for their own lives. The primary responsibility for this will always lie with the individual, but the authorities must at the same time contribute to giving new citizens a chance to become part of Norwegian society. Integration is a two-way process, based on rights and obligations. It is about building barriers where they may be found, in education, working life, health, provision of services, etc. The barriers may be high or low, depending on the individual’s starting point. There is a difference between coming to Norway as a migrant worker, a family immigrant or a refugee. It is different for adults than for children; there are differences between men and women, boys and girls. We have the whole range from higher-educated to illiterate. There are differences within and between immigrants from different countries and continents. Therefore, measures must also be flexible, as individualised as possible and cover all life phases. This is a good message and an important message. There is a point of view shared by the 16 organisations that participated in the Stortingen hearing. The government here demonstrates how the large and small integration programmes and measures are interrelated across sectors. The responsibility for implementing the different measures for languages, work, education, housing, leisure activities and other social participation lies in the different sectors, but people do not live their lives according to the sector principle. People live across sectors, every day, all their lives. They switch between the public, private and voluntary sectors. They move between national, regional and local levels, and last but not least – all live in a municipality. One of the most important success criteria for successful integration is therefore that we are able to see different actions in context and do things in the right order. Once the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has been given responsibility for coordinating and ensuring an integrated integration policy, that responsibility must also be real. It's not just about writing a message, it's about appropriations and concrete implementation. The majority believe that the main track in such a comprehensive integration policy is language, housing, education and work. Language is fundamental to the rest. That's why we've doubled the number of hours for them with the right and duty to Norwegian and social knowledge. Therefore, we will review the introduction scheme and propose improvements in it. Therefore, the majority would like to have possible extensions of the personality assessed for Norwegian training. This is why we have trials with free core time in kindergarten, so that all children should be equally well equipped to take hold on the first day of school. Therefore, we want language mapping and language stimulation to be gradually expanded from today's 90 pst. to include all children. That's why we have introduced free homework to mention something. The best way to learn languages is to practice it with the Nordics. In this context, we should not underestimate the value of voluntary organisational life. Many organisations have developed good offers, partly funded by government grants, but here there is room for expansion, which was clearly highlighted in our consultation. Work is important in all ways. For each individual, it is about the ability to contribute with their abilities and qualifications, the freedom to obtain housing, the freedom to live independently, to participate in leisure activities. Work is the main means of combating poverty. We know that immigrants and children with a migrant background are overrepresented among people with persistently low incomes. Our welfare society depends on the values created by work. In Norway, we have a high level of employment, both among men and women, and among immigrants and the rest of the population. But that's a difference. There is a greater difference between men and women among immigrants than elsewhere in the population. Figures show that if we are able to close the employment gap, we have covered one third of our labour demand by 2060. One of several measures is to improve the recognition system for training and real competence from abroad. Another measure is the transformation of the New Chance Programme into Job Opportunities, with particular emphasis on the qualification of women who are far from the labour market. A third measure is attempts at the allocation of immigrants to state jobs. A fourth measure is closer cooperation between Nav and employers to increase the number of immigrants for interview and employment. We need good role models that can help remove barriers created by discriminatory attitudes, and perhaps especially those that are not entirely conscious. Since 2005, 330,000 new jobs have been created in Norway, most of them in the private sector. Immigrants make important contributions to this. 21 pst. by new establishments in 2011 were established by immigrants. This needs to be encouraged more. That's why we want the founding guidance for immigrants into solid forms. In some environments we know that there is social control of young people, especially girls, but also boys, and also adult women. Education and work are the best way out of oppression and into independence and control over your own life. Norwegian women know all about that. We must also be able to share that knowledge with our new sisters. It is positive that immigrant girls are now storming into higher and higher education. Hopefully, this will also eventually lead to them storming into the labour market and pulling more of them with them. But at the same time, we need to build up barriers for those who need extra measures to get there. It's never too late. There are many good examples of this, including in adult immigrant women. Nor should we forget that some immigrant boys are not doing as well in school as the girls. Some health comments: The government points out that an equivalent health offer means that everyone has to be treated differently according to their needs. That's good, but there's also a challenge here. We know that there are social differences in health. We know that some disorders occur more frequently among immigrants than others, but one of the main problems is that our knowledge is fragmented and has many holes. Therefore, it is positive that there will soon be a public health impact report, where specific challenges for immigrants are addressed, and in the wake of it, a national strategy for immigrant health. In the end, I would like to stress once again the positive fact that the Storting is as united as we are – not completely unanimous, but as well as united – when it comes to seeing the possibilities of diversity. There are some minority proposals that I assume are presented and promoted by the minority itself. And then I look forward to a constructive debate on a very important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e222	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the matter. As the rapporteur also says, there is a broad consensus in the Committee on Part of the Communication. Many people have waited a long time and with an interest in the government now providing a big message on integration in Norway. Many people have been waiting to see what works, what doesn't work, and what can be done to make things that don't work can get better. In this way, the message has partly responded to expectations and partly not. There is a great deal of glorification in the communication about Norwegian integration policy, and in many ways it can seem that most of it works very well, and that Norwegian integration policy is successful. Norwegian integration is very good – it has to be a backtrace. But there is also a lot that is not good, and it also points to the message. It's important to focus on what's not good, because it's something you have to do with. The government parties have pointed to sunshine stories about everything that is successful, and what is successful is also the Advance Party's agreement that is good. But it's part of the opposition's task to put your finger on what's less good, and to challenge the government if they really want to do something about this. Successful integration is about how immigrants should become equivalent contributors in the Norwegian community and find security in a society based on essential values of freedom and interpersonal trust. Successful integration is also about major economic values in Norwegian society, a society in which people contribute and participate. Successful integration is about using the right tools to get good results. Norway has spent 20 years on measures with little or no effect. We have to venture to use what works. Successful integration is also about having a sustainable immigration policy, a policy that ensures that Norwegian values are respected and further developed, so that Norway can continue to be a welfare society. In political Norway, the sense is somewhat evenly distributed, and I appreciate my political opponents when they do or say something that I think makes sense. I would like to refer to a political opponent, namely Minister of Labour Anniken Huitfeldt, who recently said something very wise. She said in the evening post on compulsory activity for social workers that making demands is a way of showing care. I very much agree with that. That's what we in the Advancement Party have been saying all these years, and we've been getting a lot off of it, both from this and other pulpits. But it does not detract Huitfeldt momentum in any way. She has probably met criticism from her own party traps and members in her cooperation parties, but what she probably asks about, and which I also ask about here and now, is: why should we be afraid to make demands? It's both right and reasonable to make demands. This also applies to those who come here to seek asylum, work or for other reasons. Investigations, consultation rounds and assessments and looking at things are well and good in some cases, but if one is to have results, one actually has to do something concrete. Action plans are also good, but they have to be concrete, they have to be used, and not least they have to be evaluated, so that someone knows what works in the plan and what does not work. Using the wrong medicine for a long time doesn't work, and it's not good. It makes the situation worse. But as long as you don't evaluate the measures, someone who said you don't know what the right medicine is to use. Seeking asylum in a country is a human right. Getting a family reunion and looking for a job is also allowed. Norway must fulfil its international obligations, and we must help refugees who have been persecuted in their original country of origin. When people seek asylum – or work, for that matter – in Norway, I assume that those who come to Norway come here because they want to live in Norway. There are many countries in the world to which you can come. Some countries are a little more like the country from which they come, both climate and culturally. It must be allowed to believe that when a person chooses to come to a country far from his own, both geographically and culturally, it is because one wants to be part of that country, and it must be allowed to expect that those who come are willing to adapt to Norway. It can't be too much of a requirement. It is not possible to undermine the fact that immigration creates some challenges and that some people have greater difficulties in being integrated than others. The fact that immigration into Norway has been large, perhaps too large, may be one of the reasons why integration creates these challenges. When more come to the country than the country manages to receive in a good way, it creates problems. When one continues to immigrate while thousands are in asylum reception waiting to settle in a municipality, the problems will only increase. There are today more than 15 000 people in Norwegian asylum recipients. Only in 2012 nearly 9,800 people sought asylum in Norway. In addition, of course, there is family immigration and labour immigration. These are relatively high numbers. When one at the same time knows that many municipalities do not have the capacity to accept and settle immigrants due to lack of housing, lack of jobs and lack of school places, and lack of capacity to meet health and social demands, this situation is exacerbating. One must remember that it is not the government that integrates immigrants, nor is the Stortinget; it is the municipalities and those who live there. Norway is the country that receives most immigrants in relation to the population. Maybe it's time we put on the brakes a little bit for a while, so we can take better care of the ones that are already here, instead of filling in with even more. We may have reached a saturation point where the municipalities do not have the power to receive more, and that is why the settlement is slower. Many who come to Norway cannot read or write – they are illiterate. They don't have any education either. These people are facing greater challenges of integration. They're going to learn a foreign language, they're going to learn to read and write, they're going to get an education, and they're going to try to get to work. Many of these do little or none of this. They therefore end up as recipients of welfare benefits and thus become a burden on society, rather than a source of enrichment. In the communication, the government says that immigrants are a resource and that the employment rate is evidence. The fact is that more and more of those who have come to work as immigrants and have remained in the country end up in job queues and become recipients of social security benefits. The refresher has studied this and come to some interesting findings. A study shows, among other things: that immigrants from Lithuania and Poland who came to Norway in the period 2003–2007 and who were given a large number of jobs in the construction industry were found to be far more unemployed than Norwegians, and that they remained unemployed to a much greater extent than comparable Norwegians. Previous studies show that Pakistani and Turks who came to Norway in the 1970s disappeared rather quickly from the labour market. After only ten years in Norway, these were overrepresented in social security statistics. According to the study, similar features are found in new groups from non-European countries. The study showed that the unemployment rate among immigrants was high, up to 18 pst. What is worrying is that the unemployment rate among these people is increasing, and that it's keeping high. Then it turns out that at the same time as those who came first, and who went out on leave, there came a lot of new ones, which went straight to work. It's worrying, as it's easy to imagine that these too can end up on the statistics, and that there might be some cynicism in the world of work. The refresher centre points to several explanations of this phenomenon. Language problems, poor contact networks, that they are less adaptable, and that they have lower formal education, are some of the points. Then, of course, the Norwegian welfare systems come as a possible explanation. This will in the long run be unsustainable for Norwegian society. There will then be fewer and fewer people paying the well-being goods to an increasing number of them. This shows that immigration is not entirely successful and not entirely sustainable. The SSB describes this through its 15/2015 report. I quote: ‘A sustained increase in immigration from EU countries, America and Australia will to some extent ease the pressure on public finances out of this century through slower ageing of the population and increased tax revenues. Immigration from low-income countries, on the other hand, weakens public finances. In the very long term, migrants who have the same economic behaviour as current non-migrants will not solve the funding challenges of the welfare country, as they will also use the welfare systems. Professional activity is essential for development.’ The fact that participation in the labour market is an important factor for integration is a consensus. Another important factor is language and social understanding. Manages a non-language, will be out of work and outside society. The Progress Party will show that too many people who have the right and duty to learn Norwegian and social knowledge are not at work or under education. A compilation of the status of course participants from the years 2005 to 2009 shows that about 40 pst. the participants were not in the job following the end of the programme. This is objectionable. There is also a clear indication that the integration of immigrants is not working well enough on a very close basis, and that saying that integration is successful rests on some failing basis. The Progress Party considers it important to monitor the competence of individual immigrants and to ensure that any additional education, education or training is provided, in order to get into profitable work to become an economic self-wheeler. The Progress Party clearly sees a 40-pst exclusion from the labour market. participants in the introduction system are a serious societal problem and those outside have to be caught. There are many reasons for this non-response. We believe that the absence of a multidisciplinary approach to catch up with these people in the long term will lead to their falling outside the Norwegian community. In my view and in the view of the Progress Party, it is clear that in such cases one has to make strong demands and that public benefits are to be paid only against compulsory employment. The notification also states that languages are important and an overall committee believes that the identification of languages at the earliest possible stage is an important tool for providing good language training. Learning the language is important. The introduction system now has 600 hours of language training. The problem is only that it is mandatory to attend and not to learn. There are therefore many who complete the introduction system without being able to speak Norwegian. This is unacceptable in the opinion of the Progress Party. The government suggests that a person should take a social test, but that he can be taken in his own native language. I mean, that's a record bomb. Social skills and language training must be seen in the context. Language training and understanding must be required. Those who are to stay in Norway must be able to take a test in language and social knowledge. Grades must be set, which means something about the knowledge of individual immigrants. This will also serve as a diploma to employers on a later occasion. The integration message is comprehensive in terms of words, but slightly poor in terms of action and action. The government has spent eight years trying to figure out what to evaluate or figure out. We can count in the message: The government will assess 19 actions, address nine issues and send out to the hearing one poor little thing. Action plans that have not been evaluated in 20 years, investigations and good wishes do little to help achieve a more successful integration. Only concrete measures are helpful. There is still a lot to be done before one can say that integration in Norway is successful, and one thing I am sure: this message does not end the integration debate in Norway. The working party says everyone's coming, and I say, "When then?" I would like to end by addressing the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e278	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e281	It's an important big message we're handling today. In 1982, in a large report, the SSB predicted that the population of Norway would start to decline in 2016, after reaching the peak of 4.3 million inhabitants. In Oslo, the population would go down because of an ageing population. The reality was quite different, last year we passed five million inhabitants, and Oslo is the capital of Europe that is growing strongest. What's happened? We have been given increasing birth rates due to changes in family policy, and we have had a strong growth in immigration, especially in labour migration from the EEA region. Therefore, in my article I want to focus most on what the government has focused at least on in its message, namely, the immigrants at work. Immigration through family reunification, refugees and asylum seekers is duly presented by the case rapporteur, and a large majority of the population in the United Kingdom join most of the government's conclusions in these areas. Language, education and work are the most important factors for successful integration, and it is particularly important to focus on women in this context. The need and opportunities for cross-border movement of persons increase as a result of increased world trade, reduced transport costs, reduction of border barriers and increased trade between countries. The right considers increased labour migration to be a contribution to taking these developments seriously and exploiting the potential of globalisation. We are critical that the notification places very little emphasis on the conditions of integration affected by labour immigration into Norway. We do not have an overview of the sectors and occupations in which labour will be needed in the coming years, what information measures have been taken to ensure good information for the increasing flow of labour migrants from EEA countries, what skills are being sought today, and what tools should be used to employ those who are not currently part of the labour market. We see the need to investigate which criteria ensure success in terms of multicultural recruitment. The labour market is likely to be characterised by increasing migration of workers and service providers over the years to come, but also by increased competition for labour between countries. Having a conscious and comprehensive labour immigration policy is one of the main policy challenges in the years to come. Knowledge and competence, together with diversity in the workforce, are crucial for innovation and industrial development in an increasingly competitive and international labour and business. In order to maintain the current level of well-being and ensure value creation through a living knowledge-based economy, Norway needs to pursue a policy that enables us to compete internationally for the competent labour force. The main objective of labour immigration policy is to facilitate the recruitment of foreign labour by enterprises and businesses in a simple and efficient way when they need it. At the same time, frameworks and measures should be designed to ensure that the benefits resulting from labour migration can be achieved in a balanced way for employers, individuals and society. Every single migrant worker shall be guaranteed good working and social conditions. The fact that there is work to be done, and that it is well paid, is absolutely essential for workers in other countries to consider it relevant to seek employment in Norway. It is important to ensure better information for immigrants, preferably in more languages than today. Prior to the financial crisis, workers from other countries with the necessary workforce contributed, inter alia: construction and repair industries and in several service industries. Without this extra labour available, growth in the Norwegian economy would have slowed down. At the same time, we see that several of these immigrants have rotted in Norway, and families have moved after. Then it is important to have the opportunity to learn the language properly, either through work or through a course. In addition, there is a need for more targeted measures to attract specific competences to Norway. The right sees that it is not obvious that the competent labour force is applying to Norway. We pay relatively low wages for academics, specialists and researchers and have a compressed pay structure. It is important to market Norway for foreign labour. Although Norway is an attractive country for those with low qualifications, the highly qualified are looking for a better place to pay for their skills. This issue needs to be taken seriously if Norway is to be able to maintain and further develop the welfare society of Norway to become a knowledge nation in the future. Consideration should be given to the means of increasing the migration of skilled labour not only from EU countries but also from the rest of the world. Today, Norway is losing this competition in relation to countries such as the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, despite Norway being able to live in the world’s best country annually. Today, the strict requirements must be met for foreign nationals who do not come from the EEA territory to receive a work permit. Since 1975, Norway has had limited and regulated immigration. This means that non-residents cannot move to Norway and take up work here unless the non-resident fulfils the conditions of one of the derogations. All non-residents who intend to take up work or pursue their own business must be authorised to work. The right considers that businesses should be eligible for prior approval in order to allow professionals/specialists to start their work there while the Foreign Affairs Directorate, UDI, is examining the application. A rapid track system should be established for pre-authorised enterprises. Today's regulation regulates who is qualified as a specialist, so as to fall within the scheme. It should be left to employers/enterprise to assess for themselves whether an employee has the right skills. It will eliminate bureaucracy and release resources to deal with more complex issues. Authorisation to work as a professional may be granted for up to three years, but no longer than the duration of the employment relationship. Renewal is a very bureaucratic process, which takes a lot of time and gives long periods of unresolved situation and stress to those involved. It is necessary to simplify these control activities, in particular those previously authorised. Therefore, the right-hand side proposes that a model with prior approval of companies be examined. Only 5 pst. by immigrants who apply to EU countries or Europe in general, have higher education or are skilled, against more than 50 pst. by those who are granted a residence permit in the United States and Canada. A comprehensive change in labour immigration policy should therefore be considered by looking at the experience gained in the field between the EU and the United States. We have previously proposed the introduction of a so-called 'Sheet Card' similar to the EU countries, using the model of the US 'Green Card'. It is crucial for the sustainability of the welfare model that Norway is able to continue a higher share of value-creating and tax-paying inhabitants. At the same time, we need to ensure that those who are actually at work do not become dependent on sustainable grants in order to maintain income they can live on in Norway. Even the best welfare society depends on the financing of profits in the productive sector. It is important that as many people as possible participate in the labour market, while joining forces to ensure basic security for those who are unable to work. The basic starting point for the Right is that each one takes personal responsibility for himself, his own life and for the people around him. At the same time, a voice and human society must ensure all opportunities for a decent life. The basis for well-being is that it must pay off to work, while ensuring good and decent support for those who are too sick to participate in the labour market, but even if they are to have good income insurance schemes, they must always pay off to work. We want a special focus on getting more immigrant women into work and in active participation in society. According to the SSB, at least 8,600 immigrants live in Norway aged 16 and over who have not completed any education at all. About 5,600 of these are women. In addition to the fact that there are much more women without education among immigrants, there are also relatively more immigrant women with short higher education. New opportunities, introduced by the Bondevik II government, are a pilot scheme aimed at testing and documenting experiences with different methods of getting more immigrants into work or education. There is a need to strengthen the activity of economic social assistance, especially for the young social clients group. No young person who does not have significantly reduced health should be able to carry out passive public transfers. The person coming to the municipal social services shall meet with an offer and an expectation of participation in work or work-clearing activities. There is considerable scope for both demanding activity and cutting the benefit if the requirement is not complied with in Section 20 of the Social Services Act. We believe that greater efforts are needed towards young people, and that priority is given to efforts directed at young social clients who may later end up in disability. We want a door-to-door ‘snow’ practice at all Nav offices throughout Norway. It is necessary to require those receiving public support, while facilitating participation. Mastering the language is essential for good integration. The motivation among immigrants to learn Norwegian is often greater than the public language training offer. We need to strengthen Norwegian training and to facilitate the recognition of the mother tongue of immigrants as a second foreign language. Language training should also become a right for migrant workers from EEA countries, and unemployment should not exclude one from language training. Such training will provide job-seekers with additional qualifications and may help them to enter the labour market more quickly. A number of non-governmental organisations, such as Red Cross and Caritas, are doing important work in this area. We will underline the importance of a good interaction between the public, private and voluntary sectors. I then take up the Right's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e336	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e339	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee and not least the rapporteur and the committee secretary for their very wise and thorough work on this position. I was one of those who in their time walked around with the colorful T-shirt with ‘Yes to a colorful community’ and the button with ‘Not my bullying comrade’. I wonder when that was faith. I went into this internet, as we say in the interior, and there I found sociologist Sigurd Skirbeck, who could help me with that. He points out that in 1987 there was an advertisement printed in the evening post with the text: ‘Defense yourself, your people and future generations against future-blind politicians.’ The advertisement characterised the information on Norwegian immigration policy as opinion fascism. The evening post took in the ad, the Arbeiderblad did not do it, and wrote in the management position: ‘It is a shame that we in Norway, with such a small migration and refugee problem, are not able to solve these questions in a morally high-level manner.’ The next day there was a large meeting in Jern and Metall Oslo, where Reulf Steen, according to the newspaper report, among others. pronounced: «Rasism is a disease that we can all be affected by. We are all disposed of to become racists, under certain conditions and circumstances." Ellen Stensrud, who was then the leader of Iron and Metal Oslo, followed up by saying: «As long as we have financial problems, more people will be infected. It is therefore important that we, like the occupational health service, do preventive work. Otherwise, I fear that the disease will break far into our ranks." Then there was an impressive wide mobilization, and the campaign, as I have already mentioned, ‘Yes to a colorful community’, was launched by the Red Cross and got cross-political excitement. Not least in school environments, jacket tags were distributed with the text: ‘Not my bullying comrade.’ I had two daughters who, certainly on a voluntary basis, walked around with these marks on them. It was at the end of the 1980s that non-European immigration became noticeable in our country, at least for those of us who lived in central urban areas. It's also in this period that we find the first articulate and organized resistance to the same immigration. Not least it was in the media we met this. Instead of a factual and knowledge-based approach, the media bombarded their readers, hearers and viewers with a number of shock-carded individual pisodes. According to Skirbeck, the message was that it was a disease that was in the process of infecting Norway and, as Skirbeck wrote, that the only decent response that was prescribed was that one had to try to isolate the same disease and ‘stop infection from spreading’. In retrospect, Skirbeck says that if a reader of Norwegian newspapers from this time on, it seems that the fight against AIDS and the fight against racism will be met in the same way. This is really embarrassing to read now in retrospect, a quarter of a century later. In these 25 years we have had immigration. Everything indicates that it will continue, and that we actually want it to continue. This message, and not least the configuration, shows it in a very good way. There's a large majority in this house, and I'm convinced that it's the same thing on the outside, that wants immigration, and that this has largely gone so well. We have become a richer country in many meanings of the word, a richer society, a more exciting society – a much more modern society, in which modern citizens thrive in living and working. Immigration is not a threat to further social development. Immigration is, on the contrary, a prerequisite for good and modern social development, and I quote from the vote, ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party’. Today, I am really extra happy not to be a big representative of the Progress Party. It must be so tiring in length to be so skeptical of everything new and of all those who do not look or sound ‘typically Norwegian’. My hope is that what still stands out in the progress party comments as, as I read it in any case, ‘cos of discontent’ expressions, will later appear as embarrassingly out of date, both valuable and not least knowledgeable. In panel debates with progress party politicians in recent times, and many of these have been in these asylum-children's times, Norwegian immigration and integration policies are almost characterised as a disaster. Expressions are used as total disc bombs. So luckily, I noticed that Morten Ørsal Johansen changed a little today. That's a good starting point. SV is concerned when we talk about immigration policy, that it is important to assume that the immigration population has some challenges related to education, skills, languages, etc. But it's so important to assume that the Norwegian society to which they migrate has some challenges. We are a class society, we have a sex labour market, we have a working life that is characterised or infected by social dumping, and we have a difficult situation on the housing market – not least for people with low incomes. We have an adult learning system that should be expanded and become stronger and better. We have a society where people with mental problems are struggling, etc. We struggle with bullying in schools, workplaces and online. Just to immigrate into such a society and live in such a society is demanding for all of us and, naturally, a little more demanding for our immigration people. This message is good. It describes and argues for both rights and obligations. Yes, it argues for obligations. The representative of Ørsal Johansen must read the message in more detail. It describes, argues for and is not least about the whole and about what Ellen Stensrud mentioned 25 years ago as preventive work. A checkout that is natural for one who is a member of the municipal committee is to side by side with three fresh groceries messages: the district and regional messages, the housing message and the message we are discussing today. It shows in a good way that there is an equal, co-ordinated approach to this topic – all three messages indicate that immigration is a good thing, that immigration is a prerequisite, not least for development in District Norway, and the three messages are price-effectively similar in actions both in terms of housing, language, work and education. I'll finish here. I think maybe I've got two minutes too long speaking time, and I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e389	The representative shall be assigned the speaking time for which he has been informed in advance. For the sake of order, the President will only make it clear that there is nothing called having good speaking time that is not exhausted. So the time is up to 10 minutes, and the representative Hagen stayed well within that framework!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e392	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the work that has been done well and thoroughly. Norway is part of an increasingly globalised world. Immigration has helped Norway to have a more diverse population with different languages, traditions, cultures and different competences. This development has given us many new opportunities, but it also gives us new challenges. Norway's largest resource is the people who live here. We need skills and labour, and all forecasts indicate that we are dependent on immigration to meet the labour demand in the future. At the same time, of course, it presents us with challenges, different challenges for different groups of immigrants. There are different reasons why people choose to settle in Norway. Immigrants can be divided into four main groups: those who come here to take education, refugees and asylum seekers, family immigrants and migrant workers. Those who come here to take education are the smallest group. It is a group that lives in Norway for a limited period of time, and the group that has the least challenges to address here in the country. Refugees and asylum seekers are also a relatively small group, but this is a group that is very heterogeneous and with quite different challenges. Most come to Norway and apply for a residence permit because they believe they are being persecuted in their home country. Some have higher education, speak fluent English and have good opportunities to get a job relatively quickly. Others are illiterate and, of course, have a much longer way to go before they master Norwegian and can acquire competence as the Norwegian labour market demand. Some of them come from society quite like the Norwegian, others from villages without electricity and ingested water. Some people simply have to learn to live in a Norwegian dwelling. It goes without saying that the time it takes to be integrated into the Norwegian community will be different for these different groups. The second largest group is family immigrants. Some of them have the same background as asylum seekers, others have married Norwegian citizens and come from countries that are relatively similar to Norway, and are primarily in need of language training. The majority in this group are women. The deciduous largest group of immigrants are migrant workers. The majority in the group are men, but many of them also have the family with them. They do not have the right and obligation to introduce a programme, but they have income and therefore the possibility to take language training on their own. I also believe that employers should assume a great responsibility for language training. Many immigrants have families who do not have work in Norway, and this is a large, unused labour reserve in a labour market that is sorely in need of more labour. There is enough to pick up for employers who provide good language training and ensure that they have the skills needed in the local environment. Despite large differences in background, all immigrants have one important thing in common: the need to be well integrated into the Norwegian community — with the rights and obligations of all those who choose to live here. Good integration is important for individuals, but at least equally important for society as a whole. Our society has been based over the centuries on fundamental values such as democracy, the principles of the rule of law, human rights, freedom of expression, equality and equivalency. Integration policy must be anchored in these values. The integration process thus becomes a responsibility that includes everyone – both those who live here from before, and those who come moving here. It is an important prerequisite for successful integration, where everyone is given their resources, and everyone is taking part in the community. All residents of Norway have the same rights and obligations, and it is important to pursue a policy that clarifies the link between right and duty. Everyone has to get a chance to succeed, and everyone has to meet with common demands. The main factor for good integration is undoubtedly good Norwegian knowledge. It's about kids as well as adults. For refugees and asylum seekers, the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme is the entry key. For many, it is sufficient to acquire basic Norwegian knowledge, but not for all. The notification states that about 1000 per year coal in Norwegian training is to be regarded as illiterate. In the hearing, KS pointed out the specific challenges involved, and that they are resident in different municipalities throughout the country. Therefore, KS requests an additional grant for illiterates in Norwegian training. I have a great deal of understanding that this is a difficult issue, and that is a matter to be referred back to in budgetary procedure. Kindergarten and school are the most important areas for the integration of children and young people. That's why I want to warn against parental segregation in school. Minority parents must meet with clear expectations and demands to leave their kids with other kids and choose their own friends. The use of religious symbols in school must be regulated in the interests of children’s right to freedom of religion and equality. The use of succulent headgear in school should be banned locally, and own beans in schools, I think, should be avoided. The hearing revealed that some of the hearing bodies wanted to remove the cash support. However, from the year 2012-2013 onwards, the scheme has been reversed and no cash support is granted for young people over two years of age. The risk that cash support may have a negative impact on children’s language development or that it will help immigrant women to go home over several years has thus been eliminated. Cash support contributes to greater freedom of choice for families with children from 12 to 24 months of age. Not all kids of that age are mature to start in kindergarten, and not all parents are mature to send so little kids into kindergarten. The centre party will work for this scheme to continue. The settlement of refugees is an important and lasting task for the municipalities. The sooner a refugee is allowed to settle in a municipality, the sooner he starts an introduction programme and the path to work or education. Unfortunately, the waiting time has increased, and this is a cause for concern. Lack of suitable housing at the right time and in the right place in municipalities is often an important reason when municipalities cannot accept refugees. The House Bank has several instruments that strengthen the social housing work in municipalities, and it is important that municipalities are familiar with it. Refugees are among the target groups for these schemes. Most refugees are not in a situation where they can buy housing when they come from reception. Therefore, a municipal rental dwelling can often be the most appropriate option. The government has repeatedly reinforced the grant of rental housing, and the House Bank can provide between 20 and 40 pst. grants to housing projects for refugees and other priority groups. The housing message signals that the maximum limit of 40 pst. can be used to a greater extent. I'm glad. The Housing Communication also describes several other strategies for the faster settlement of refugees in municipalities. Some Keywords are long-term planning, good anchoring and professional use of the private rental market. I would like to stress that the voluntary line is important for the success of integration. Housing requires the availability of housing in municipalities and the provision of a good reception apparatus and sufficient competence for good language training. That is why I am pleased that we have now established a cooperation agreement with KS that facilitates a faster settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e422	First of all, thank the rapporteur for a good deal of work on an important communication. It is an objective that everyone – regardless of origin and gender – should be able to participate in working life and the Norwegian community equally, whether in school, living environment or organisational life. Good integration is important both to enable society to make use of all the resources of the population and to enable individuals to participate in society. Integration work is always a two-way process. It is about willingness to participate and about willingness to include. A rapid residence after a residence and work permit has been granted is of great importance to the individual’s adaptation to and participation in the Norwegian community. Today, municipalities live significantly less than the IMDi requests, and there are now about as many people waiting for a return waiting for a settlement in the municipalities. Only 68 pst. of those who settled in the first half of 2012 settled in the target of residence within six months. For single minor asylum seekers, the aim is to settle within three months, and in 2012 the waiting time for single minors has decreased because this group has been a priority in the settlement work in the municipalities. Nevertheless, only 61 pst are settled. within the objectives. There are many and complex reasons why several municipalities face housing challenges. Lack of housing has been highlighted as an important reason. I believe that there are also several reasons, but what has been pointed out is that the low investment grant for dwellings has been an obstacle. But now the government has said in the housing announcement that they will increase the housing allowance from 20 to 40 p.m., and this is positive news that the Christian People's Party supports wholeheartedly. What is now missing is the timing of when the money will be on the table, and an assurance that the framework will also increase accordingly. If only the subsidy rate increases, but not the framework, it will have no effect. A refugee comes to a municipality through settlement, but remains through work. The workplace is the best venue for acquiring knowledge of Norwegian language, culture and society, and it is therefore very important to get newcomers to work quickly. Unemployment among immigrants is higher than for the rest of the population, and it is a challenge to achieve the goal of the fastest possible economic self-reliance for new immigrants. Attitude-building efforts to get employers to employ people with a migrant background in job vacancies need to be strengthened and more focused. Knowledge in Norwegian is the key prerequisite for an active participation in society. Therefore, it is still important to maintain participation in the introduction programme – 600 hours of training in Norwegian and social knowledge – as mandatory for newly arrived immigrants from outside the EEA. Training completed is the condition for obtaining a residence permit. I also support that knowledge in Norwegian should be a condition for citizenship, but it is clear that here we need to have some exception rules. The introduction programme shall ensure the basic qualification of new entrants and shall be characterised by continuity, good planning and information flow. Monitoring and competence, individual qualification plans, close follow-up, full-time employment with the possibility of combining Norwegian training and work practices and an economic benefit related to participation in qualification are some of the elements that need to be in place to ensure continuity and integrity of training. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all municipalities, and there is a need for the central authorities to better facilitate the proper implementation of the introduction programme by municipalities, businesses and Nav. But that's not all the municipality should or should do. There are often better and less resource-intensive ways of achieving good integration. Engaging voluntary and non-profit institutions and organisations is one of them. Voluntary organisations have been important players in integration for a number of years. They are an important arena of labour training and social participation, while their efforts against unworthy conditions, such as racism, discrimination, forced marriage, gender mutilation or anything else, are of great importance to our democracy. Municipalities should also use the potential of voluntary organisations in the qualification of the introduction participants and the potential of organisations as meeting places and the venue for the participation of refugees and their families in the communities. It is important to strengthen the efforts of non-governmental organisations through increased operational support and to ensure that the voluntary sector remains an important area of work training and social participation. Not all integration work can be managed and organised over municipal or state budgets. Some of the barriers to integration relate to attitudes, prejudices and perceptions. We have to open our eyes to ensure that immigration, as well as creating values in dollars and ears, also enriches Norwegian culture and challenges us to increased tolerance, understanding and respect for things that may be unfamiliar. Discrimination and racism push people away and out. We create an outsidership that, at best, can pass on and, in worst cases, can activate resistance – resistance to Norwegian society, to people and to culture. Thus, prejudice and racism can become a self - fulfilling prophecy. We know that people with a non-residential name are significantly less likely to be invited to a job interview. We know stories about people who get jads, racist remarks and hoarsely slinged on the street. We've all read inappropriate and outlawed racist comments in news or social media. It is a great responsibility for us to respond to such attitudes and prejudices, and we, as officials, must be forebears, taking a settlement with those who spread hatred and racism. In addition, it is also the responsibility of the media to give a proper view of the challenges, but also of the enrichment that new cultures, attitudes and norms add to society. Because it's through mind-building work, multiple meeting places, and lower fences and fences we meet and see each other and get to know each other. It's through friendship and knowledge that we cultivate the similarities over the differences. It will be our most important tool to get to a society where everyone is respected, everyone meets tolerance and everyone knows each other at home. And that's what is the goal of good integration: that Norway is a place where we don't grow the extraterrestrials, but where we grow the community and people feel included. Finally, I would like to thank the Right for being so generous as to give me some of his speaking time. It's good. It's good. It's good. Finally, I would like to draw up the proposals we support. We support the proposal No. 1, point 20, No 23, Nos. No 24, 25 and No 27, which is presented in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e455	I have not received speaking time from anyone, but I will try to get my message yet, on the minutes I have received – sail if this is an important matter for the Left and a matter we have worked a lot with. I want to start with – as many others have done – that there is a lot of good integration work in Norway. Norway is one of the best countries in Europe for integration. It's because we've been very innovative in politics in this field. There are a lot of municipalities doing a great job. Many small communities are very good at integration work. But it also applies to large municipalities, like Oslo, like, for example. has a school that is fantastically good at just that with integration, and that manages to lift all children, which means that very many of the young people who today take higher education in Oslo have immigrant backgrounds. A lot of the engineers that we know we need to survive in the future have that very background. Suffering if parts of Oslo are characterized by immigration, it is nevertheless very good, as what I experienced one day I was in a kindergarten at the Furuset. The vast majority of the kids there looked like they came from somewhere else, and I asked the preschool teacher how language work was going in kindergarten. She looked at me in amazement and said that all the parents in this kindergarten spoke Norwegian at home. So it's very good that happens around. But it requires some initiative and creativity when it comes to action. I notice that when the Council of State is interviewed in the evening post today, it is the introduction programme that is being promised as the great grip – as the previous government introduced. I think we need a lot more creativity in finding the good measures for good integration. The left has tabled eleven proposals here today. I notice that there are not so many suggestions in the message. You have a little bit of an idea-dryer. With regard to the proposals on the table, the main challenge in Norwegian integration policy seems to be gender mutilation, with an infinite amount of proposals from the Progress Party, on which, fortunately, they did not have so much focus in their contribution. It's a big problem, but it's not so big that it deserves so much space. I think Trond Helleland made a very good contribution with a lot of good measures related to labour immigration. I see no reason to use the few minutes I have been allocated, to say anything more about it, for it was very wise that was said. Today, Utrop presented an evaluation of immigration and what immigration is adding to Norway, which shows that we are in this room, among other things. has between 27 and 28 billion. more to spend annually on tax money because of immigration, which shows that the population we receive has higher education than the Norwegian population has. Of course, among the immigrant population we get, we have challenges in terms of illiteracy, but there is also a double density in terms of doctoral degrees. It's also an important picture to bring with you. I think it's important that everyone who comes to Norway meets with both demands and expectations about the Norwegian social contract. I think there are many steps we should have taken in Norwegian integration policy to inform about this social contract from day one. The system we have today punishes people by not being allowed to work in Norway. I believe that we should have put them to work from the first day they came here. I believe that all asylum seekers should have been working from the first day. If you live in an asylum centre and do not choose to wash the hallway, you will be paid. I also believe that they should have had a lower salary and received a payment to wash the hallway. It has something to do with the whole micro-conception process, that we have a social contract in Norway where we're all going to contribute, and it should be a signal from day one. We're still on our way, but we need more new ideas to be able to make integration policy good. I believe that what the government has put forward is thought-dried, so today, the Left has made eleven proposals, both in terms of improving our school, in terms of getting more voluntary organisations involved, in actively using the Labour Environment Act to get more people working, in terms of introducing experiments on anonymous applications in the public sector, and in terms of using mentoring schemes much more effectively to get immigrant youth and others outside the labour market into the labour market. We want to use the school much more actively, both to improve Norwegian education and to strengthen the schools that have many students with immigrant backgrounds, because we have seen that it has worked. In Oslo, there are a lot of schools that are very good at multilingualism, multilingualism and such challenges. We should learn from the teachers, who do a really good job there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e476	Is it possible that the representative would also like to comment on his proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e479	I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e484	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e487	The government has presented a communication on integration policy, and there is a broad consensus on the main features. There are many reasons why people move to Norway. Those who come to Norway have a completely different starting point for life here. Human rights and democratic principles form the foundation of the Norwegian rule of law. All residents of Norway have the same basic obligations and rights. Everyone has to respect the same laws. Within these frameworks there are many different ways of living. Integration policy should facilitate the experience and participation of all those living in Norway in the community, which is most important. Both people who have migrated and people who have lived here all their lives are going to experience a safe society with room for people to be different. This is a responsibility that rests on us all, but where we are often perceived as role models, we have a special responsibility. There are many different ways to be Norwegian – many ways to be an Oslo citizen or a Western fold, many ways to be a Muslim. If the debate becomes one-sided and unfurnished, we risk self-fulfilling prophecies and many do not feel included in the community. Instead of debating Norwegian culture, the government has been concerned about finding a set of values that should be glued between us – such as human rights, equality and children’s rights. One important reason why we've done so well with integration is that we have a general policy to smooth out differences. The redistribution, work, equality and commitment of children and young people to growth are fundamental to success. The message attaches great importance to increasing employment and improving Norwegian training. It is particularly important to ensure that women who currently have a low level of participation in the labour market have access to their own income. The path to freedom of choice and equality goes through economic autonomy. The economy of parents is important for the ability of children to cope in Norwegian society. That's why we're so busy reaching women who've been on the outside of the labour market for a long time. We quadruple the commitment to the mentoring program Jobsjansen – or New Chance – where they, for example. has been on cash support for a long time, or has been provided by other family members, with a new chance of self-sufficiency. Women with backgrounds from Africa and Asia are far less economically independent than other women in Norway. This is because they are less involved in the labour market. Nevertheless, immigrant women in Norway have higher employment than women in general in Italy. Equality policy, where the line of work is central, also affects the employment of migrant women. The government expects everyone to participate in the labour market according to their ability — women as men. And there should be no lower ambitions for women than for men. Norwegian training and the introduction programme must ensure that women with low qualifications and low education are also given the opportunity to participate. Basic qualification provided by municipalities through Norwegian training and introduction programmes needs to be more effective. This year, a new grant scheme with development funds of 32 million will be put in place. to strengthen the integration of municipalities. It is very important that the settlement work goes faster. We're going to give basic qualification to those who need it to get to work. At the same time, many immigrants have both training and work experience from their country of origin and competences that Norway needs. Norway misses resources and labour if immigrants do not get a job and get work where they get to use their skills. Discrimination and racism, prejudice and lack of experience in diversity also stand in the way. Norway has committed itself to providing people with a new home country. Those who are going to stay in Norway must get their lives started. Everyone has to live in a municipality. Long stays in reception are to waste human resources – it is a burden on the individual and it also costs the state a lot of money. That's why it's a priority task for us to get faster settlement. We are betting on an agreement with the KS in the near future. All children and young people shall have good growing conditions and equal opportunities for education and life development, irrespective of background. Knowledge of other countries and cultures is a resource for society. Not least multilingualism. Many Norwegian children possess an invaluable resource by being able to speak more languages, but I know that there are many who are ashamed because they belong to several cultures, instead of righting their backs and saying that this is good. We value the protection of children's rights. All children living in Norway have the right to protection against abuse and care failure. Children with a migrant background have exactly the same rights as other Norwegian children, and they are our shared responsibility. To create societies with trust between people, we need to meet in different contexts. We also need to associate with people who are different to ourselves. The workplace and school are the main venues for meeting others. Then it plays a role in what we do in leisure where we live – in non-governmental organisations and voluntary work. Voluntaryness plays a very important role. We view immigrants as a resource. That is why we have expectations, and we are calling for participation. People will have to contribute their abilities to the best of Norway. We see diversity as a strength for our country. Young people who grow up in a more diverse and multicultural Norway can face the world with greater experience and mastery. Therefore, it is good that all Norwegian municipalities now have residents with a migrant background. Mangfold is everyday life, not the exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e519	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e522	There is a great deal about action plans in the integration message. Action plans are important tools, both as a management tool and as an action tool, in terms of integration. However, action plans are of little value if they are not followed and find out what is working, and not working, in the action plans. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State initiate an evaluation of the action plans on integration in Norway, in order to identify what is working and what is not working in the plans — and in terms of integration in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e531	I can assure the representative Ørsal Johansen that we have mainly evaluated the action plans we have had – we have! The impression created by the Evening Post articles is actually wrong. One of the action plans that has been much up to discussion has even been evaluated three times — internally twice and once externally. We also have a follow-up evaluation of a lot of what we do, and everything we do is knowledge-based. You will find examples of actions we have not evaluated, but mainly things have been thoroughly reviewed and highlighted. What I think is strange in the proposals the Progress Party is promoting in the Chamber today is that there are very little ideas about what Ørsal Johansen really thinks has been the main problem, namely that we can't get more people to work. Instead, you cut in everything that we know works, like that. The IMDI and the Job Opportunities – New Chance – for Immigrant Women. I think that's very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e538	Kindergarten is important for immigrant children — or children who have recently arrived in Norway — in order to learn Norwegian. Today there is a free core-time system in kindergartens in some parts of the city, among others. in my neighboring town in Drammen. In our kindergarten, there are many parents who serve at least as well as we do as big business representatives, and who then have free core time in the kindergarten, because they live 300 meters away from our house. At the same time, we know that those who attend an introduction course do not have an offer of free nursery space for their children. They live in all the municipalities of the country, not only in a few towns. Would it not have been a more targeted scheme – as the Right suggests – to offer free core time in kindergarten while one or both parents are taking an introduction course, which at the same time would have led to children learning Norwegian quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e543	Today, it is possible for municipalities to use the integration grant to provide nursery facilities. It is freely up to each municipality to do so, and there are also many municipalities that do so. In the question of free core time in kindergarten, and the use of it as an instrument, I perceive in the comments from the Right, a criticism of the way we have arranged this. I don't agree. On the contrary, there is some reason why we score so high on the rankings over who is doing well on integration, that we have chosen to bet on the areas. We've had area bets that have given rise to entire areas. Free core time has also been included as an essential element. It's about making areas attractive to many different. It's about ensuring equality by some arrangements being universal – they're for everyone, no matter how much you earn. It also makes children experience a greater degree of community and equality, and you don't have to test people to see if they're worth the measures and the money you're willing to put in. So I think that's a reasonable way to spend money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e550	It is a pity that the Minister of State is not also present today, because housing and housing policy are so important also in view of this notification. I pointed out in my post that the Christian People's Party wholeheartedly supports this by increasing the housing allowance from 20 to 40 p.m. It is not certain that this is on the table of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, but I would like to ask whether this government, in addition to increasing the housing allowance, will also ensure that the framework increases accordingly, otherwise this will not have any effect at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e556	It is quite right, as the representative Bekkevold points out, that this is an area within the responsibility of another specialist Council. That means that the question has to be addressed there. However, this is also a budgetary question to be answered in the context of budgetary procedures. It is quite right that housing is an essential element for few to faster housing. We hear that from the municipalities. They have difficulty having suitable dwellings. So we have to have a completely different degree of governance with housing policy in the future, and not leave so much to the market that has been done since Kåre Willoch took over in the 1980s, which has led to us building too little, and we build too little socially. So our government is absolutely interested in taking a stronger grip on housing policy both in terms of how much we build and what kind of housing. For this part of the city, it is also essential to get a greater degree of mixing, so that we get mixed living environments, and not that everyone who can't afford to settle on the east edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e565	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e568	It is often said, but it is not true that in Norway we do not dare to take the debates on what is difficult to integrate – the values on which Norwegian society is based, on duty and justice, and on everything that does not work well enough. The immigration debate is hardly about anything else. It is a major challenge that we do not more often remind each other of the following: Nordics born abroad are important to Norway — and they do well here. We need them more than they need us. Immigrants make up 12 pst. by all employed persons in Norway – 14 pst. in the private sector. During the period 2005-2012 they stood for 56 pst. employment growth in Norway. Claiming that Norway does not need immigrants is simply wrong. To those who have come here legally and who are actively involved in Norwegian working and social life, the message should be simple: Thank you very much for being here! Unfortunately, I don't think after hearing today's debate, that's the impression they might be left with. Last year, 50 000 workers came to Norway. More than 60 pst. of which came from three countries: Poland, Sweden and Lithuania. Most of the so-called immigration debate is not about how we can attract labour and ensure that those who come here can participate in Norwegian society. No, the debate is largely about too many, or about other things – about headgear, about whether asylum seekers should go to football pub, about bad messages on Facebook, or about ‘dreams from Disneyland’ to mention something. I myself have been indignant and have overreacted, so I am not pointing my index finger to anywhere else, but there can be no doubt that the big and important debate in the future must be about other things. How are we going to manage to attract, and keep, the people we need to develop the well-being and Norwegian business? How can we avoid developing an A team and a B team in the workplace? And how can we help everyone who lives in Norway to become part of and feel like part of Norwegian society? This is the big message about integration. A note at the end of the committee's term says mostly about the lines of Norwegian immigration policy. It says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, regard immigration and diversity as a strength for Norwegian society.’ It's reassuring that the second largest batch of the Storting is not on a note that says something that is obviously right, no matter what measurement parameters are used. Every year since 2006, around the National Day of July 4th, readers of the New York Times have been able to see pictures and names of so-called "foreign children Americans" in large advertisements pulled in by the company Carnegie. The advertisement «Immigrants: The Pride of America» conveys a different attitude to immigration and immigrants than to what dominates the Norwegian debate. Here, the value of immigration is mostly drowned for Norway — economically, humanly and culturally — in all that is bad and difficult. Albert Einstein, Gene Simmons, Madeleine Albright, Henry Kissinger, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Gloria Estefan, and Michael J. Fox is among the first-generation Americans in the ads. There is no question of doubting their contribution to American cultural and social life. What would a Norwegian version look like? Politicians such as Michael Tetzschner and Hadia Tajik are well at home in such an ad, Alexander Rybak, who won the Grand Prix for Norway and «Norway's fastest woman», Ezinne Okparaebo, too – and many, many other first-generation Nordics. Of course, we should not neglect phenomena such as sex mutilation and coercion and other barbarism, but it is a pity that everything that goes well with Norwegian immigration and integration seems to be scarce – because it is going very well. The registered unemployment rate of residents in Norway is 6 pst. In comparison, the unemployment rate in Sweden – for all – is 8.4 pst. Young women with parents from abroad are at the top of education statistics. Later today, Utrop presents an immigrant account. I am convinced that it will show that immigration is important to Norway. We know by 8 pst. by Norwegian enterprises, labour shortages are an obstacle to growth. Finally – about the first generation immigrants: isn’t it time we buried the absurd and stigmatizing concept of ‘other generation immigrants’? Children born in Norway by parents who have come here have not walked anywhere. There is a need for concepts – but why not look forward, and not backwards? Is not ‘first generation’ or ‘foreign born’ a Northman after all a better word, and equally striking?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e601	There is no doubt that immigration into a country costs. Immigration also brings some benefits. But if you are to get the benefits, you must have a successful integration policy. You can't get that with the government's policy. After all, the government has all the responsibility for the immigration and integration policies we have today, and the government is made up of parties responsible for the policies that have been pursued over the last decades. We see the results today. I believe that the results show that these parties, who are in government, have little credibility when they present the paper on integration. Let us first look at immigration policy. Last year, 41,500 new immigrants arrived in the country — the largest growth ever. The most ‘profitable’ — one has to put it in quotes — are adult labour migrants who come here fully trained and who do not need many public benefits. However, the alarming thing is that many of these very poor people do not maintain their ability to work for so long in Norway. Professionals say they don't know what it's coming from yet. If this could have anything to do with Norway’s provision of welfare schemes, I leave it to me for now, but more and more research and more reports show that large-scale immigration to Norway is not sustainable. Economically, it is profitable to open up the boundaries of guest workers, but the calculation looks different when the new groups that come, pick up spouses and children and become net users of public benefits. Calculations become even more serious when we fail to integrate. I have many friends, acquaintances and family who come from a different culture and other countries. Many have lived in Norway because they want to succeed. They stand on and contribute — and respect Norway’s peculiarity, while wanting to maintain their own culture. That's good. But unfortunately, it's not the picture I'm describing, it's the same for all those who have migrated to our country. Norway must take on board the fact that we will face enormous challenges in the future. That is why we need to reduce the proportion of immigrants to the country, so that we can offer the best possible range to those who are already here and who want to get the chance to succeed. Only the Progress Party has put forward proposals that will reduce the asylum flow to Norway. Asylum policy is closely linked to integration policy. New records are announced in the number of applicants for asylum in Norway. If we don't tighten the rate of asylum, integration will be harmful. Immigration and integration must become key issues on the political agenda for many years to come, because if development goes too far in the negative direction, we will never be able to reverse it. So the government has to get on the road and say what it has to do with proposals for solutions, for the big message that has been presented, will not solve the challenges. When you do not see that asylum policy is an important and important part of the picture, it says quite a lot. Seeing the proportion of minority language students in Oslo should give great cause for concern. Immigration into our capital has been so massive that political objectives of integration are hardly feasible. If the minority becomes a majority one day, you cannot integrate the majority. Media reported a few weeks ago that this year it is using the municipality of Oslo 233 million. kr for extra Norwegian courses for students, and it is granted approx. 60 million. kr for mother tongue training. So in the capital, 300 million is spent. to teach Norwegian students in addition to so-called normal Norwegian training. Who said that big immigration to Oslo and Norway is not expensive? In Oslo School, it's now over 40 pst. minority language pupils. The proportion of students with a minority background is 80–90 pst. in several schools in Groruddalen. Every fourth student in Oslo School is unable to follow the course without additional Norwegian education. What is this going to mean for integration? There are now large sums of extra education available to teach children born in Norway. Large immigrant groups in Oslo are at risk of falling outside society because they are not integrated. Our capital has accepted an excessive proportion of immigrants, and Norway accepts too many. I believe it is indisputable that we now see the consequence of too much immigration. It costs, it takes a lot, and integration is likely to fail. Those who want to lose most of this are the immigrants who have come to Norway, who want to contribute, be integrated, get a job and succeed. I think we have to accept fewer immigrants to Norway. If integration is to be more than an unattainable goal, it must not be accepted more than the success of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e627	The word integration can be a very clear term, and it's also used quite unambiguously. Of course, it has an interest far beyond the linguistic ones. Integration has become – I dare say – an integral part of the integration debate. There is a certain consensus on three broad concepts to describe the proximity or distance between a majority population and the minority population. It is first of all assimilation, which comes from Latin: equalizing, which means that immigrants in social, cultural, economic and political conditions become just like the majority – voluntary or forced, very often with emphasis on the latter. Secondly, we have integration, which can once again be divided into a pluralistic integration, where minority groups and the majority population adapt to each other, and, on the other hand, a melt-digging integration, where a multicultural society emerges from several cultures that eventually develop a new common culture, but with more shades than you had before. Thirdly, we have segregation, which involves the compulsory or voluntary separation of minority groups from the majority population, most often expressed by the systematic division of housing lines, but also by its own parallel institutions in addition to religious communities, which in the host country are entrusted with public authority, for example. a truly binding decision for the individual on family matters. Assimilation and segregation are opposites to integration. Assimilation means unilateral adaptation on the part of immigrants, and it does not provide much room for diverging ways of living. Segregation means permanent parallel societies. In my opinion, integration is the answer to what assimilation and segregation represent of problems. Successful integration respects different cultural practices, but also requires mutual commitment. Integration occurs on several levels. Firstly, it is a system integration that refers to the state – and in and of the municipality – and the policies of the supporting institutions towards ethnic minorities, both in terms of the allocation of civil, social and political rights, and in terms of the economic and social position of the minority in society. The integration message that we are dealing with today is written primarily for this purpose of system integration. But there's another level that is equally important. Social integration underlines the opinion of the majority and minorities of attitudes to and behaviour towards each other, both collectively and not least as individuals – that is, with the attitudes and practices we meet with each other in everyday life: at kindergartens, at school, at work, in leisure and outdoors. Although, from the perspective of individuals, it may be difficult to distinguish between the two integration pathways, there may be grounds for distinguishing between system integration and social integration. One can easily imagine a number of situations in which ethnic minorities are fully system-integrated, but remain socially unintegrated. Even I have found inspiration in the supplementary culture model of social psychologist John Berry. According to this, as individuals, we can have more cultural positions, where integration also means keeping to our cultural base and our cultural practices, but at the same time being open and positive to and influenced by the majority culture in which we live. I hope we're on our way to the last one. Integration is slower than the optimists imagined, but what is most important is that it goes much better than the pessimistics have predicted. Although the distinction between immigration policy and integration policy has been practical in many respects, there is also a link between integration and immigration. In a democracy, the perception of how successful we are with integration will affect people's attitudes about how tight the door to Norway is to be. As an example of this, I refer to the previous article. The public integration policy, which we are dealing with in this position, has brought together a broad majority in the position. There's a positive basic attitude that those who come to realize their own goals, and as part of this, will participate in society and develop it economically, can be involved. At the same time, it is a realistic approach. You have to make demands on the immigrants as to ourselves. Passive help is not enough. Whether you have lived for a short time or a long time, you have to be a performing and participating member of society – on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e653	In this paper, the government is examining principles and frameworks for future integration policies. One of the objectives of the Communication is for immigrants to thrive and participate actively in the working and organisational life of Norway. One of the prerequisites for achieving such an objective is to have an active housing policy in the municipalities. The notification refers to housing as important in order to have a stable relationship with the labour market, to take education, to have a social network, to participate in local democracy and to have good health. The government is promoting several measures in this big picture that deal with housing policy and the settlement of refugees in this country. According to this Communication, it is important to work for a faster settlement of refugees through committed cooperation with the local government sector. It is out in the municipalities that people live, and successful integration policies therefore depend on basic needs, such as safe and good housing. The majority of comments refer to several studies showing that the main challenge for housing is lack of housing in municipalities. It is built, among other things: for few homes intended for refugees. In order to address this problem and to allow refugees to have a housing career, it is therefore desirable to look at measures with the House Bank, KS and IMDI. The House Bank and the IMDI have, in cooperation, been involved in several instruments, both nationally and regionally, to provide housing for refugees. The aim is to identify appropriate financial instruments for refugees and for municipalities. One of the measures mentioned is municipal funding for new buildings for short-term or long-term rental through the Husbank. The IMDi, in cooperation with the KS, will also look at measures that facilitate and increase predictability of the settlement work in the municipalities. The majority of the Committee is also very positive in this respect. In addition to this, the government has already strengthened the start-up loan scheme for, inter alia: refugees by increasing the amortisation period from 30 years to 50 years. The government has set the goal of having a refugee resided in a municipality within six months. This is important in order for immigrants to start the introduction programmes and Norwegian training. In particular, children and young people seeking solitude – but also all other asylum seekers – should not remain in the reception of asylum. It weakens integration, and it is unfortunate for the refugees. The National Audit Board has pointed out that the entire 68 pst. by those to be settled within the six-month period, it shall not be. Lone minors have a higher level of housing, but that's because this group is a priority. Another measure that I want to draw up is the government's desire to assess the right to an introduction programme for refugees who find themselves self-inhabitable. The government believes that this measure may help to facilitate the settlement work outside the municipality and remedy the situation pointed out by the National Audit Office. It is also problematic that this measure could lead to a strong concentration of applicants for refugees in some cities, and it is therefore assessed whether this measure should only apply to places that are not typical areas of pressure. Furthermore, I want to draw out the work that is already done outside the municipalities. Cities like Bergen, Drammen, Trondheim and Oslo have all good housing arrangements. The Communication emphasises that there is a strong desire among immigrants to live urbanly, yet there are many district municipalities that live in many refugees. Several investigations point to many positive aspects of the settlement of refugees in the municipality of Norway. The report mentions, among other things: smaller communities make it easier to engage and settle refugees in local organisational life. Furthermore, figures show that immigration and labour migration account for about 70 pst. of population growth in the country. Several small coastal communities are therefore experiencing growth in the population because of this, and it is positive and desirable. My home municipality, with a little over 6,000 inhabitants, has a desire to be a municipality that settles for refugees. It is because new, creative impulses and new, innovative solutions come to town when we integrate and settle people in Vadsø. At the request of IMDi, the municipality has decided to maintain the 2012 level of residence also for 2013. This means that in 2013, this small municipality will seek to settle for 90 new refugees. I believe that the message illustrates some of the work done in Vadsø Municipality, namely that this is about facilitating people to have a place, and it is about facilitating that we in Vadsø Municipality can also participate with our solidarity – locally, as well as internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e672	Norway has a diverse population. This has always been the case, ever since the state of Norway was originally established in the territory of two people – Samer and Nordman. In addition, Norway has recognised five national minorities; groups established in Norway already when we became an independent country in 1905. So Norway has never been a homogeneous society, but the way it is diverse has changed. We are now also characterised by diversity as a result of immigration, and we know that Norway will continue to be changing. We need to make better use of diversity, both what we have had for hundreds of years, and ‘the new diversity’. I have responsibilities for the government sector. The government sector is, as you know, a major employer in Norway. The main objective of the country is to provide good services to the population and to manage Community funds in a sensible manner. It is an objective that all should be offered equivalent public services irrespective of family background, place of birth, sex, function, religion or sexual orientation. Immigrants and children of immigrants make up 13 pst. of the population in Norway. Then it is absolutely necessary for us to exploit the labour force and competence of immigrants. It's important for several reasons. Firstly, everyone in our society is going to have the chance to use their resources and contribute to working and social life. Secondly, we know that competent labour is – and will be – a scarce resource, so we have to make sure that the competences we have in the country are actually put into practice. More and more immigrants take higher education. Activities must not ignore their competence. The diversity of the population should be reflected among workers. Foreign state agencies such as the police, the Nav and the tax department have become more effective at recruiting people with immigrant backgrounds, so that they can better solve their problems – for the benefit of all of us. Different backgrounds and different life experiences are important, and diversity in education, skills and work experience provides the basis for new ways of managing tasks. This provides better services for the whole population. Key instruments to promote diversity and wider recruitment include: that at least one qualified applicant with a migrant background should be called for an interview and that immigrants should be encouraged to apply for a job vacancy. The State is also testing new personnel policy instruments, including: a test project with moderate allowances. The proportion of immigrant background in the state tariff range is increasing steadily – it was 8.2 pst. in 2011. In the whole state sector, the percentage is slightly higher, while we see that in business it is close to 13 pst. with a migrant background. We also see that the migration rate varies considerably between sectors, from about one to the next. 15 pst. in the education sector to between 2 and 3 pst. in the Defence. Variations are due to different qualification requirements and professional specialisation requirements. At the same time, we can improve our recruitment and staffing. Entrepreneured and systematic staff and efforts to attract applicants with a minority background are important. The activities most advanced in this work have their own diversity strategy, internal surveys, internal indicators, management evaluation related to diversity, reputational construction and publicity in job advertisements. The work to improve the use of the competences of immigrants also requires good cooperation between the social partners. I have therefore recently invited the main associations in the state sector to cooperate in order to obtain good action. I'm glad the main associations are positive to participate in this work. A deliberate recruitment policy is also linked to the fight against discrimination. Efforts to combat all forms of discrimination are important in order to create a well-functioning, safe and fair society. Discrimination prevents people from participating in social life on an equal footing, and society is prevented from using the entire population’s resources and talents – we cannot afford that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e691	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e694	Labour and competence have been a repetition of this debate. To some extent, Norway needs labour; we need skilled labour. We also see that there is a certain need for labour in the public sector, among other things. in municipalities and in the health sector, in hospitals and in other institutions. There is a need for some skills in these professions, but the most important thing is, of course, that people working in the public sector and dealing with people can do Norwegian. My question to the Council of State is as follows: What should be the requirement for non-resident workers working in the public sector as regards knowledge in Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e701	Good knowledge is important in order to provide good services to the population, but it is not possible to set a general qualification requirement for the whole state or public sector. Some people have direct public contact and are totally dependent on being able to have all the shades in the Norwegian language, others have work tasks where it is not important to have Norwegian knowledge at all. It therefore needs to be assessed by each employer in each situation in order to be able to set the appropriate qualification requirements for the individual. It is important in some contexts that we have good language skills in Norwegian, but in many contexts it is also important to be able to communicate, for example. in Sami with Sami users. It may also be useful for us to be able to master other languages in meeting our new compatriots.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e706	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e710	In the last 30 years, Norway has experienced increased immigration, and we have become a more diverse country. Immigration brings with it new cultures, traditions, once unknown religions, but also new challenges. Increased immigration into the country has also had an impact on the fight against violence in close relations. I am pleased that the Storing Message also addresses this challenge. It is important to remember that women with a migrant and refugee background are a complex group. They come from different societies, with different social practices. The life situation and position of these women in society can make them extra vulnerable. Their opportunities for language training and access to housing, work, social security rights and relief services may be lower than those of women in the majority population. The risk of violence continuing increases in the absence of social inclusion and, in the worst case, isolation, without others being able to stop it. Some men from minority families want to keep the woman in the family isolated to maintain or gain power and control. This may include, inter alia: means refusing to attend Norwegian courses or threatening that she will be sent out of the country. Thus, the woman is deprived of the opportunity to establish a social network and create a basis for independent living. We know that the majority of those currently using the housing services of crisis centres are women with a migrant and refugee background. In 2001, women with a migrant background accounted for one third of users, and in 2011 62 pst. by users of women with ethnic minority backgrounds. But about a quarter of the women were subjected to violence from an ethnic Norwegian partner. The increase in the proportion of women with a migrant background in crisis centres does not mean that there is more violence in families with a migrant background. An explanation may be that an increasing proportion of women exposed to violence in the majority population have their own income, good support from their own social network and increased knowledge of their rights. This makes it easier for them to leave a violent partner at an earlier time than before, while at the same time being able to use accommodation other than the crisis centres. The crisis centre offer is particularly important for violent women without labour income who have weak social networks where they cannot expect support in the event of a breach. This will in many cases be the situation for violent women with a migrant background. Women are particularly vulnerable to violence and abuse both before, during and after flight from war or conflict situations. Women living in reception centres may therefore be in a particularly vulnerable situation. Being a refugee can have consequences for physical and mental health. In addition to pre- and pre-flight traumas, loss of family, networks, status, identity and changes in relationships are common consequences. Refugees are therefore a high-risk group for the development of mental and social problems as well as other health problems. Exile can lead to increased family violence, and violence can increase to an extent in a situation of reception. Men with a minority background also experience violence in close relationships. In 2011, 48 out of 79 men visited the crisis centre had foreign origin. The reason they went to the crisis centres was coercion, child abuse, rape, sexual violence, trafficking in human beings, the danger of kidnapping in relation to children, honor-related violence and the fear of detention. Some immigrants, especially refugees, have worse living conditions than the rest of the population, and some experience violence. Fortunately, we see a improvement in living conditions after they have lived in Norway for a while, and there is considerable social mobility when we look at Norwegian-born immigrants’ parents. Nevertheless, immigrant groups have problems getting a good connection with the labour market and remain in the low-income group. This applies in particular to refugee families with many children where their parents are weak or have no occupational connection. These are challenges that we need to take seriously, and meet with different measures aimed at the individual family and individual. I have now listed specific challenges facing people with a minority background. However, I will end by saying the following: Those I have spoken about today are strong. Those who leave a violent husband or violent parent to start a new life often leave far more than a husband or close family. They often leave their entire social network. They go even if they risk standing alone, often without a job. It requires courage and will. I want from this pulpit to say to those who have the courage to seek help to go and create a new life: I have enormous respect for you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e733	There may be at least two different approaches to the integration debate. First of all, problems can be seen, threats to Norwegian culture, threats to the Norwegian welfare state, or it can be recognised that there are challenges, because it is, but nevertheless have as a bottom line that immigration to Norway is not only good, but has actually been a prerequisite for employment growth and strong figures for the Norwegian economy in recent years. When I take the floor in this debate, it is because, right now, we have another important message to address in Stortinget, namely the message of perspective. This is closely linked – very closely together. The Communication on Perspectives is about how we can cope with the challenges we face – not primarily in the early years ahead, but in the decades ahead – in maintaining productivity, maintaining employment growth and funding for the welfare state. In this picture, it is important to note that since the enlargement of the EU in 2004, labour migration to Norway has increased sharply. About 60 pst. of the increase in the number of employees that we have had since then, have been immigrants, and that contribution to the workforce has helped to extend the very strong economic recovery that the Norwegian economy has had. So the fact that people come to Norway to work is not a problem. The labour they provide is a resource, and because we've had a labour policy for many years when we've achieved that the share that's at work may be the highest in the world, and especially the female share, there's limited access to new labour within our own borders. We therefore rely on outsiders to meet the need for labour and to ensure continued increased value creation in Norway. So to the exercise that some people have a strong attachment to, that's to count on which one of us pays – in the long run, it's the few of us. But I believe that in that calculation it is worth taking into account that employed immigrants give tax revenues to Norway up to 30 billion. kr annually. Many of them have completed their education in Norway. It saves us a lot of money, and they receive about 3.8 pst. of the transfers of social security from the public interest. So these contribute significantly to the Norwegian economy, and it has already been referred to several times here that the proportion of people taking longer higher education is actually higher in the immigrant population than in the rest of the population. But yes, there are challenges, as I said in the beginning. Although employment among immigrants is higher in Norway than it is in very many other countries, it is significantly below the average for the population otherwise, and behind the large aggregates there are very large differences between groups of immigrants. It is linked to the level of education, work experience, where you come from, and the reason for immigration. This means that we need to focus heavily on labour-oriented measures, how to employ more people. It is the key to good life for those who come here, but also for the robustness of the Norwegian economy. Everyone has probably heard the statement that the Norwegian women are worth more than the oil. It's actually like that if you start counting in dollars and ears, and it's still amazing enough that we're having a debate in Norway in 2013 about women's work efforts at such a level that a minister can get accusations against him to make something as obvious as it pays for women to work. But in any case, there is no doubt that women’s entry into the labour market has been the main single cause of the strong growth of the Norwegian economy in the last ten years. The potential of women's participation in employment has largely gone out, and I agree with those who say that success in integration, success in the employment of those who migrate here, is the key to keeping productivity and growth up in the years to come. There are going to be more immigrants, the proportion is likely to increase. How well we manage to integrate immigrants into the labour market and close the employment gap that we see in statistics today will therefore be of great importance not only to individuals but to Norway as a whole. What makes me very optimistic if we succeed in this, if we take out the potential that lies in all the people who are here, who want to contribute, is that we have taken a long way in the funding gap that we have in public finances towards 2060, which the perspective message says a lot about. That's why I'm glad this message puts so much emphasis on work, on employment and on measures to get people into action. It is a completely correct focus and a completely necessary focus both for individuals and for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e752	Norway needs labour. Therefore, it is good for us that so many people choose to come to Norway to work. Some try to say that this is a threat to the Norwegian welfare state. The reality is that the Norwegian welfare state is completely dependent on it. In fact, without access to foreign labour, we would have significantly higher unemployment in Norway. Enterprises would not have been able to submit tenders for larger contracts, and companies would not have had access to key key competences that generate needs for more employees, such as: engineers. Work for all is the main objective of the Workers' Party, not just because the welfare society is built on that we all contribute to the community. Equally important is that it's the most important freedom-creating factor we have. Having work gives us the value of being useful and getting income both we and the family can live on, and the workplace is an important social arena for us. There we meet other people, there we make friends, and there we care about each other. Therefore, it is also very important that we have a working life with spaces for different people with different skills and resources. The workplace is our most important inclusion venue. Participation in the labour market is important for immigrants and refugees. There they learn and experience Norwegian culture in a completely different way than they do in the classroom of the introduction program. Practically, you learn work in the workplace. Work is the main means of integration into Norwegian society. That way must also be available to women. Polish as well as Somali women participate less in employment than Norwegian women. Education and language together with attitudes are important explanations. That's why we need to have a conscious approach to this. Job opportunities and other similar measures are essential to include these women in the Norwegian community. And once again, this is not charity. It's solidarity in practice, it's freedom struggle, and not least it's good for Norwegian society, which needs more to help strengthen our welfare society. It is a paradox that while Norwegian companies are calling for labour, we are constantly reading in the newspapers that well-trained, willing to work, healthy and healthy people who want to and can work do not get away with just because they are called Hammed or Nala. And we have to realize that people from other countries also have skills, education and skills that are of great value, which we have to recognise and use. Politics can do a lot. The country must take the lead as a good example and, if necessary, take strong measures to break down these prejudices. Because that's exactly what it is, prejudice of ethnic Norwegians, that ends up not letting people go and not giving them the opportunity to contribute based on their assumptions. As a society, we have a common responsibility to give all people opportunities. We know that many people with a minority background can be vulnerable to being exploited in the workplace. It's worth your while to work. It is therefore essential that we succeed in the fight to ensure respect for honest hard work and social dumping. After two action plans to combat social dumping, we are now working with a third. It's about securing a living income, and we're going to have a work life that's not dangerous to health. I have to admit that I rarely use the term 'immigrants'. When you've been walking from Mogadishu or Warsaw to Norway to participate in our society, we're probably all part-time migrants in life. The integration policy aims to make use of all human resources. With this, we're laying the groundwork for even more people to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e771	Norway is at all times the people who live in this country. That everyone feels that they are part of this nation – a part of their community – is in itself a very important value to us as a society. It's about dignity, justice and tolerance. But it's also about us needing everyone in Norway, and everyone has something to do with it. As the representative Marianne Marthinsen pointed out, the economic growth we have seen and seen in recent years in Norway had not been possible, we had not had the labour immigration we have, and all the people who live here now. The key to this integration is to speak the same language, to master Norwegian. In this way you can participate in society in all ways: working life, education, cultural life, the community, sports, etc. And then you're going to be part of the big thing. ‘Education is one of the main means of reducing social and economic disparities in society’, says the report. Education is the key to work, independence and personal development. Education in Norway is becoming demanding without skills in Norway. This is why many things in this setting are about Norwegian. Norwegian development in kindergartens is very important of course. Free core time is the right tool. And there are many other measures in kindergarten that are essential. But note.Oh, my God! I want to point to a challenge that we now see, and there are many in kindergartens who are unskilled. There are also some unskilled people who do not have Norwegian as their mother tongue. Without adequate skills for these, there may be a risk of very high responsibilities being placed on kindergartens, which are unable to deliver to the schools. There are kindergartens in my municipality – I live in Asker, which is a municipality where there are not so many immigrants – where 90 pst. of the children have a different ethnic background from that of Norwegian. It's basically not a problem, especially if they speak a lot of different languages, because then the Norwegian common language. But it's a problem when the majority of those who work there are not ethnic Norwegian and have no competence. That's unfortunate, because then the kids aren't prepared to start school, where they have to master Norwegian. Lack of Norwegian knowledge is one of the main challenges of not reaching the results we want in Norwegian school. However, many newly arrived children of parents who come to Norway for work, whether they are from Portugal or Poland, come straight into Norwegian school and cannot speak Norwegian, just as children of those who have been granted asylum come straight into school without being able to speak Norwegian. I've been to schools in District Norway where you have extra education in German, Dutch and Somali. It is quite common in some schools in Norway in small municipalities with small resources. I ask the Municipal Committee to take note of the economic challenges that schools face if they are to be able to offer a good range of languages. Many jobseekers in Norway also have problems related to Norwegian languages. Those registered as unemployed do not get a job because they do not know Norwegian well enough. They lack Norwegian knowledge. In general, I believe that adult education is receiving far too little attention throughout the education debate. We're very concerned about primary school, but there are many people who need adult qualifications. This is a shame, because there are a lot of adults who want to learn languages and other skills, but the systems aren't well enough set up to help everyone. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, refers to a proposal from the Education Association for a review of the entire adult education. What happens after the implementation of the introduction programme? Can we build a bridge into the world of work for everyone? Is it clear enough what adult rights are in respect of adult training under the Training Act? And do we meet the different challenges, including: one who is going to provide formal education in combination with language, because there are people who need vocational training or study skills who do not have it, while others have formal education in place and only need language training? Are we giving the good deals? I'm not sure. We have some challenges in the labour market and in language: We have to be better at recognising previous education from other countries. We have to value real competence. We have to offer low-threshold courses in Norwegian, i.e. courses in language. Language needs to be more widely accepted as a competence-enhancing offer for those taking a jobseeker course. We get into integration in Norway very well, much better than in many other countries, but we still have a job to do. Especially in language training, I think there is a need for further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e808	The challenges posed by the health situation of immigrants are widespread. The immigrant population in Norway is not a homogeneous group. These are different people who have come to Norway for different reasons: refugees, asylum seekers, migrant workers and family reunification. This also presents some challenges for healthcare, which we need to take seriously. Report. St. 6 for 2012–2013 ‘A comprehensive policy of integration – diversity and community’ was presented in autumn 2012. It is an important message and a key document for those who have come here from other countries, for society and for all of us who are engaged in a society that offers equal opportunities and an equivalent healthcare service. The five largest immigrant groups in Norway today are from Poland, Sweden, Pakistan, Somalia and Iraq. Most immigrants come from EEA countries and European countries outside the EU. 44 pst. by all immigrants come from Asia, Africa and South and Central America. There is good knowledge of the health situation among some long-term immigrant groups in Norway. We have more lack of knowledge about immigrants with shorter living time. In particular, this applies to immigrants from western countries, although they account for more than half of the immigrant population. A 2005/2006 study on health and living conditions among groups of immigrants showed that there is an increased incidence of type 2 diabetes and a higher incidence of mental illness among some of the investigated groups. In some immigrant groups, there are also significant gender differences related to health. Such findings are important to take seriously health care and try to do something about them. Real access to health and care services is important. The legal right to health care is not equivalent to real access to health care services. There are many different barriers, such as: economic, organisational and linguistic, which may restrict real access to health and care services. The quality of services will also affect treatment outcomes and how people can benefit from health and care services. Migration processes can often involve mental stress. Events — before, during and after migration — may be stressful and in some cases traumatic. Each person’s experience is individual experience. Migration poses challenges in the meeting with a new society, new language, new climate, new lifestyle and new standards. How people experience and master this varies. Therefore, there are wide variations between individuals and groups in the impact of migration on health. There may be many reasons why patients and users with a migrant background do not receive or experience receiving equivalent health and care services. This may lead to the patient and the user experiencing discrimination and discrimination — a problem that this message is also about. I want to mention some points that show what the government has done and will do in this area. It will: contribute to equivalent health and care services, including: By providing better-organised information, a communication on public health to the EEA in spring 2013, including: will have a broad coverage of the specific health challenges of immigrants and, in the context of the message, a national strategy on immigrant health will continue in 2013 the public health projects in Groruddalsssetting, which target the immigrant population to a large extent that grants to the NAKMI, the national competence unit for minority health will be further strengthened, and the current year will have a total of 8 million operational funds. Start up a separate initiative to qualify more people with a migrant background for vocational training in the field of health improving the knowledge base on the health of immigrants and their use of health services have better organised online services for immigrants. We have many health challenges – including for the immigrant population. But people who have come to Norway also have cultural health benefits. Many people have a healthier diet, with lots of fruit and vegetables, fewer use tobacco or drugs. This is positive, from a public health point of view. I would also like to underline how migrant workers do an invaluable and amazing job in the care, health and care sector. It also belongs to the picture when we talk about health and integration. Finally, living in a diverse society is a positive challenge – also for our health – by meeting people who represent something other than what we already know. I think that's good for all of us in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e858	It is a cross of thought that the term ‘racism’ does not appear to exist in Norwegian immigration debate, said Professor Jon Rogstad at Fafo a few weeks ago. The NRK followed up on the matter, and I took some maritime criticism – at least I agreed with the dilemma, namely that our opponents of opinion in the immigration debate would soon take the role of victims if we use that word, and thus it would be counterproductive for us. At the same time, however, those who feel that they are being subjected to racism do not receive the support they think they are absolutely worthy of. To have said it, it was not surprising that Morten Ørsal Johansen, in the same NRK interview, said that the Progress Party does not miss that word. I am pleased that the message dares to use the concept of racism – albeit something cautious – in Chapter 9, Discrimination. For example, last year, the study conducted by the Institute for Social Research – at Midbøen and Rogstad – on discrimination in the labour market, could also have been referred to as racism in the labour market, if we take from the definition set out in the message: ‘ethnic groups having specific characteristics and that these characteristics legitimise discrimination’. [[...]] This study shows that with a non-residential name, the chances of getting called in to a job interview were reduced by 16 pst. for women and 37 pst. for men. The same discrimination — or perhaps we should say racial discrimination — is also found in the housing market and probably also in a number of other institutions, such as the United Kingdom. in security controls, door guards, etc. That is why it is so good that the message takes hold of this and shows that here are the action plans that we are going to follow. As a New Public Management opponent, I also have to agree – although it is a bit heavy – that it is important to see that employers who have now been required to carry out an activity and reporting obligation on discrimination say that this has really had a bearing on how they have addressed that problem. That's good. A little bit about what we've been discussing about right and duty. Nordensklipte avd. 53 in the Norwegian Arbeitsmandsförbund has a beautiful tab with the title: Do your duty – require your right. That problem, I think, is particularly well discussed in the section on citizenship. I am fully in what the message here says, that it is an objective to have citizenship as much as possible, but it is also an instrument of integration policy. I want to end by saying that I believe that in the long term a modern society should definitely stick to double citizenship. It dresses a modern society, and it's appropriate in a modern society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e876	This debate has shown clear dividing lines. The dividing lines, like similar debates in the past, go between the Progress Party on the one hand and the rest of the political parties on the other. The majority try to create the impression that immigration is only positive. Of course, it's naive. Last year we had an immigration of 50,000 – the majority of this was labour immigration. Obviously, it creates some challenges that you can't sweep under the carpet. The representative, Håkon Haugli, was indignant because the Progress Party had not been in a comment. I can read that note: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, regard immigration and diversity as a strength for Norwegian society.’ There is no doubt that parts of immigration, labour migration to Norway, have been positive. We have had a long-standing boom without this creating neither pay or price pressure, nor pushing up interest rates. But going out and saying that this is just positive, no matter how many we take in -- if we take in 50,000, 100,000, 500,000, it's just positive -- what I think is naive of the multiples. So the Progress Party is out of the question. Immigration poses challenges, both culturally and in relation to crime for some groups, and labour migration has also created greater challenges for Norwegian youth to enter the labour market. There was also something that LO and NHO took up a few weeks ago. The representative Aksel Hagen also had some comments to the Progress Party, and he expressed something similar to the fact that he was glad he did not represent the Progress Party and the Progress Party's negative view, as he calls it. I can assure the representative Aksel Hagen that it is absolutely mutual. I thought that SV and Aksel Hagen could also visit SV's Finnish and Danish sister party with interest, which has an integration policy that is close to what the Progress Party stands for. So the Progress Party is not alone in its integration policy and its critical attitude to some of the effects of immigration, so I would recommend that the representative Aksel Hagen take a study trip to Finland and Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e896	It was asked if it was not tiring to be FrPs and to be skeptical. No, it's not tiring to be skeptical about getting an improvement. It's hard to be skeptical if that improvement doesn't happen. Much strange is referred to in reports showing whether immigration is necessary or not, sustainable or not and profitable or not. Many refer to good reports that have their basis. Some people think that employment is high among immigrants, some say it's low, and I think there's a slightly different starting point that's used. Statistics are nice. It would have been fun if a cross-political could sit down and look at the basis of different statistics. Maybe one could have agreed on what is a more correct basis. That it would strengthen the debate is no doubt about it, but what it will strengthen is integration in Norway. So we wouldn't stand here and discuss the basis and the details that really don't make integration any better. It is said from many here that we need labour in Norway. Yes, we may need labour, and sometimes we need skilled labour. But if we need so much labour, why is unemployment so high among immigrants, and why are they overrepresented in social security statistics? It's okay to ask the questions, and it's okay to look at it a little bit differently than some other person does. And then we've been criticized because we have a lot of proposals on sexual mutilation. Gender mutilation is an important issue, not least in terms of integration. I just want to finally be allowed to refer to Ayaan Hirsi Ali. She is a writer, ex-Muslim and former parliamentarian in the Netherlands. She says that many thousands of women in Europe are being circumcised – many thousands are being circumcised. Therefore, the Progress Party considers it important to focus on this issue. It is important to put in place measures to detect this, and it is important to punish those who do so, in order to end this terrible torture against young women. In the end, I actually want to give some praise to a representative from the Workers' Party, the representative Ljunggren. She had a very good post that focused on some clear issues and challenges we have, and I really hope that she will continue to focus on those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e909	It is possible to see immigration and, in particular, labour immigration in two ways, either as a problem or as an opportunity. On the right, it is seen as an opportunity for Norway to grow, and for Norway to raise income and have the people to do the jobs needed. We in the municipal committee have been on quite a number of trips in the whole country, in all the counties of the country, and everywhere we go, we see that without labour migrants, the fishing industry, industry and other industries had stopped altogether. You are totally dependent on that labour force in large parts of the country. Several reports have been mentioned here today, but there will be an exciting report to be published today in the Utrop newspaper, as a serious analyst has done. It shows that last year we had 28 billion. kr in tax income from people with a different background than Norwegian. The welfare budget of the same group is 18 billion. kr. That's 4 pst. of the total welfare budget. So maybe it's good to have work immigrants in Norway. In any case, the right-wing opinion is that it is good to have high-skilled immigrants for work, and therefore our main angle in this debate has been that we want more people with a high level of competence, including those from outside the EEA. Finally, I just want to review the proposals that the Left has put forward, and say what the Right should support there. We will support proposal No. No 29, proposal No. 30 and proposal No. 31. Thank you for a good debate. I think it has been useful to have a review of integration policy. I agree that perhaps there could have been more concrete and more measures by the government, especially because we have been waiting for the integration message for quite a long time now. But it's never too late, and there can be new opportunities for this or next government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e922	The main message ‘An integrated integration policy — Lack and community’ states that Norway should not evolve into a society where people with a migrant background have poorer living conditions and participate to a lesser extent in the community than the rest of the population. A good and safe health and care service shall contribute to better health and to the prevention of disease in the whole population. Although the health status of the Norwegian population is good, we have clear social health differences. Basic factors such as economics, growing-up conditions, educational drop-outs, weak employment and poor urban environment are risk factors for poor health. We know that immigrants are overrepresented in low-income groups and have average lower employment. A relatively large part has no or little education. It is true, as the message focuses on, that immigrants need to see their health situation in the light of this. One must also focus on the wider spread of some diseases and disorders in some immigrant groups. Several studies have shown that low and medium-income immigrants are not physically active. We know that some groups of immigrants have poorer mental health than the rest of the population. The health services in Norway need to be improved, I think, so that a greater degree of competence is given to immigrants in their special health challenges and cultural understanding, so that immigrants, like others, are given a customised offer. Proper use of interpreters is an important aspect of this, as more service providers in the public sector are known not to use qualified interpreters. It is unacceptable for children to be used as interpreters, and it is often very problematic for close family members to be used as interpreters, especially in situations such as: may suspect power in close relationships. Better health is not created by better health services. The most important thing to ensure better health among immigrants is to address fundamental factors, such as the economy, growth conditions and the working environment. We know that the government will present a public health report in April. We're going to ensure that preventive health work is prioritised. It is particularly important to reach groups with a particular risk of health problems. In this way, we will need to use health centres, school nurses, permanent staff, community psychologists and new measures, such as health centres, which are low-threshold measures, which ensure follow-up targeting immigrants in general and women in particular. We also get a national strategy on the health of immigrants, which I would like to welcome. It is also important that we be able to recruit more people with a migrant background into the health and care sector. Finally, some sentences about swimming lessons in the school. It is unlikely that it is important that we get a better offer. We know that there are too many tragic drowning accidents among children with a migrant background. We need to get a bet there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e943	First, a brief comment to the representative of Greece, who spoke about the serious analysis agency NyAnalyse. I just want to remind you that they had left out 17 billion. kr in welfare expenditure. But we can come back to that another time. Growth in population in Norway is increasing sharply. The growth was 1.3 pst. last year. That's 65,400 people. It's a record growth. You have to go all the way back to 1920 to hit it. It says a little about what challenges and changes the Norwegian society is going through. I have to say I find it interesting to listen to the representatives of the Workers' Party. What is said from this pulpit reminds me of Orwell's new speech. It is no longer called ‘migrants’ – it is called ‘migrants’. Oh, no, you must not say ‘another generation of immigrants’ – it is called ‘first generation nordics’. Gradually, expenditure on income and challenges becomes beneficial, and segregation is actually becoming an integral part. There are many new, great words that are used from this pulpit to highlight how great everything is going. I wish it was as well, but unfortunately it's not like that. Integration means trying to get something to work together. Then you can't start talking about labour immigration and how a Swiss civil engineer does it in the North Sea, because it has nothing to do with the matter. What is the challenge, as everyone knows – and you should say what you know, instead of talking about other things – is culture, education and work, and to make this work in the Norwegian community. Then you have to respect the basic values of Norwegian society. There are actually a lot of people who don't. Then we should agree on what are the basic values, as I have mentioned from this pulpit many times: equality, equality, freedom of expression, tolerance and not least religious and sexual freedom – the freedom to marry whomever you want, freedom from not having to marry arranged, such as 15 p.m. of all immigration is today, i.e. the arranged marriage by collection. Of course, coercion is nothing else. If you got a government council from SV to say that you want to ban coerciveness, established marriages, penitence, you could get a lot on the way in terms of integration. The very best thing would have been about someone from, for example. Pakistan or Somalia could marry some ethnic Northmen. But that's not happening. So much they don't want to integrate. No, they live segregated, marry separately, and live segregatedly. You run with Orwell's novelty and later like everything works out for the best, just being kind enough and giving enough benefits to those who come. I'm afraid that's a mistake. I would like to talk for 20 more minutes, but I don't have that much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e954	Let me begin by congratulating the Progress Party on the debate on common marriage law at the next national meeting, which is just about the right to get married to whom you want, and which is about the development of Norwegian culture. The attempt to be nuanced by the Progress Party lasted exactly five minutes with the representative Ørsal Johansen's first five. Then it went down. But I would like to stress that the main picture after this debate is nevertheless a broad opening up of what is the main lines. The starting point for success is the best, because most people agree that it is good for this country that there is increasing diversity, that we have immigration and that we are a multicultural country. For that is bid No. 1 if we intend to succeed in integration policy. On the other hand, if you take the opposite position, as the Progress Party does in these debates, the chance of failure is similar. I also want to say that the Progress Party is very suspended in culture. One is very suspended in Norwegian culture, especially the latter, who disappeared out of the hall as soon as he could, but who has raised a debate on that very matter. That's a lot of new talk, because a lot of it's just about class. The class concept is largely derived from the Norwegian language, but it is absolutely worth talking about. When it comes to people coming to Norway, class plays a very important role in where you end up and how well you succeed. What's absolutely fundamental to us is social cohesion. The overall policy of the red-green government is inclusion in the working life of women and men. It is providing social mobility. It is to provide education for all, that different children succeed and can contribute to society with their abilities. Then it is also important to have an offensive policy on territorial level. The area effort we have made in Norway has been invaluable – the effort at free core time in kindergartens. Now we're going to go on – with SFO/Activity School at Mortensrud in Oslo. It's going to be very exciting. It's about the same thing, including children. It's about social mobility. We see that social mobility in Norway is actually much bigger here than it is in the United States, which is the dream country of the previous speaker. We can realize the American dream to a much greater extent than the Americans do in the United States. We're going to be proud of that, but there's nothing going on. It only comes from offensive politics for redistribution, by understanding that it matters what kind of background you have, what kind of level of education you have, and that you can't just point to the individual and say: you have to sharpen up. You have to get together. You must participate more. – But it assumes that the community is also willing to organize. It is only in the interaction between the individual's willingness to contribute and the organization of society to help individuals that we are able to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e963	Aksel Hagen has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e966	I have two good advice for the Progress Party. Firstly, they should listen to what is said by the Right Trond of Greece. He reflects on the concept of labour immigration and, in particular, on the possibilities of good work immigration. Secondly, the Progress Party should read the debate carefully and listen carefully to what has been said in this debate. The message we are discussing today says that there are some challenges related to immigration and integration. The message also says that we have to do something about it. That's exactly what's in this message. One can't say that we don't see that there are challenges out there. So a little bit to the profitability problem. I think it's very funny that it refers to an SSB report. It showed, first of all, that people don't pay off. Yesterday we heard that Siv Jensen will spend billions more on hospitals, roads and railways and increase private consumption. Then this is going to be even worse for the Progress Party, because then everyone would pay even less than we do today, by using the so-called oil fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e975	There has been a long and exciting debate. I just have a few comments on the tap. The representative, Mr Hagesetter, said that there was a clear dividing line in this debate – all the others against the Progress Party. It is an analysis that I fully share, as it is – and I say, fortunately it is that the Progress Party is kept in isolation with its positions, as I think it has heard from the pulpit here today, not speaking to the advantage of the Advance Party. This suggests that the Progress Party hangs a little behind in an old-fashioned, slightly forward-looking way of thinking, and that also has little resounding in the Norwegian population. The world is globalizing and we are globalizing with it, but the Progress Party has in some way not yet got there, I think many of the contributions bear a clear mark of that. The progress party says we're glorifying – no, we're not. In several speeches we have addressed important challenges, but at the same time we should not overshadow the important challenges that exist and the positive results that are. Statistical central agency — and researchers there are some of our best in statistics — says among other things. that those calling for a whole new integration policy need to think again and not put away the toolbox, but just fine-tune some of the tools. That is what we are discussing here today. Then I also have a comment for Trine Skei Grande, who believes that the message is marked by a dry idea. I think it's a derailment to think that measures for even better integration will hatch into a department. As Statistics Central Bureau also points out: Everyone lives in a municipality, that's where we live – that's where we go to school, that's where we work, that's where we participate in sports, visit friends, etc. Trine Skei Grande himself said in his post that there are many small municipalities that do a good job. Yes, in fact, the immigrant is better integrated than the immigrant. Then I think we should let that creativity flourish. Step Skei Grande pointed to the creativity of the previous government with the introduction of the introduction program – but it was after the principal in the previous government, among others. had been in the Drama of Visiting and learning from the local initiative we had taken there, to build up our own introduction program. We were already in the process, partly for our own money and partly for government money. I think that's where the key lies. It's in the community people live their lives. The state must facilitate the framework, so creativity must flourish out there where people meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e992	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e995	It wasn't long. State Council Aasrud believes that nothing should be meant about non-residents in the public sector and their language skills. I have to say that is something special and not least incredibly passive. The Council of State believes that the nursery assistant from another country does not need to be able to do enough Norwegian to be able to tell parents in kindergarten about the child’s everyday life. My question is also: Shouldn't the decision from another country understand Norwegian when an elderly person who can only Norwegian should tell about his suffering – and feel taken care of and understood? Should not the Nav case handler who comes from another country be able to write a decision in Norwegian to his clients in an understandable letter? Isn't it that the cleaner in a hospital should be able to understand when someone comes and asks about the road, or that you can read the instructions on how to do your own work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1004	To be integrated, to belong to the community and to say something about common values, I have to say: the one I want most to integrate – give a proper integration programme – in this debate, is probably the representative Tybring-Gjedde. He had enjoyed getting a little more integrated in the community that we others feel we have. I'd like to contribute to that. I think it's important to realize that you have to take some government action to get the good things done. That is what we have done in the eleven proposals we have made here today. It is okay that the representative of Christoffersen admits that there are really no proposals in this big message from the government, but I think we need to correct and develop the tools we have. Much of it goes in language, a lot of it goes in grants, a lot of it goes in our schools -- that they actually get the opportunity to do the good job that you have to do. For Ørsal Johansen is right in one thing: It does not help to have children in kindergarten if those who work in kindergarten do not speak well enough Norwegian. It does not help in language teaching. For example: Oslo is working really hard on it. Sick if you don’t know Norwegian very well from day one, it’s very important that you teach kids that it’s called going to do — not go to do. Being able Norwegian is quite perfect for learning children's language in kindergarten, is very important, and it uses a lot of energy on it. It's e.g. big plans in this town that anyone working in a kindergarten should be able to learn Norwegian very well in order to be able to learn Norwegian, but you have to take some state action to do so. During this debate, we have tabled eleven proposals, and I believe that the government must support all of them, because one of the representatives of the government after another has said that they are in favour of them. Axle Hagen is even too dual citizenship – so is Left. I am curious if it comes to proposals from the government parties when you speak for this in the pulpit. We have to be able to take some state action, sail if much of the work is done in the municipalities. We have put forward those proposals here today in concrete terms, and I hope that this will actually give us support for some of them during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1017	The debate on integration is an extremely important debate. I listened with interest to the posts of the representative Tetzschner: Integration stands in clear contrast to segregation and assimilation. In the context of integration, the cultural nature is maintained, while at the same time adapting to Norwegian laws and regulations. The representative Tetzschner had a good post, at my discretion. I have some comments about the working life. Labour immigration is said to be a necessity. Yes, it is a necessity, but the extent of the need is the result of an economic policy, and the consequences of labour migration must be discussed. Today — under the the thesis on the free movement of capital — there is an economic policy in Norway that implies a level of interest not adapted to Norwegian reality, but reality elsewhere. This leads to an activity in Norway that is abnormally high — an activity that will not last, an activity that will have to decline when conditions are normalised after the euro area crisis has its consequences. That's why we have to have a little perspective – longer than in the bubble we live today, where the activity is extremely high because it costs almost nothing to borrow money. It's completely abnormal that we're in such a time. So we have to take into account what's coming later. The impact on the labour market: there are very few people here who talk about how labour migration pressures pay and working conditions in industries with weak trade unions or free professions. There are very few who are in solidarity with professionals in the industries, whether they be purebred, trade, food production or transport. I think it's too weak. It's a difficult challenge, and it's been about classes. Here classes evolve – here it develops really classes! The red-green government should focus more on how these classes evolve. When there is a large labour force benefit in a market with low professional rights, we know what the consequences are. A debate on ideology is therefore necessary: the free movement of labour and capital. It is an ideology that needs to be corrected. It will not be able to function over time; it will need more governance, because it is the nation states that will ultimately be responsible for the well-being and well-being of citizens, workers and asylum seekers. This will require the necessary instruments to ensure the extension of the jealous economic conditions peculiar to Norway, which are an important part of our own kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1028	I meet at Stortinget and often follow the debates on immigration from outside. Since I have the chance here now, I thought that I should try to communicate some of what I see as injustices in the theory of culture of the Advancement Party. I come from a city where the vast majority of the inhabitants were historically Finnish immigrants, and yet we celebrate May 17th in that municipality. My neighbouring municipality is a maritime municipality, which is proud of that culture and cultural heritage, with a completely different language than the Norwegian one. That's where they celebrate May 17th. Putting the Norwegian population into such a closed, small cultural framework that most reminds us of agricultural romances and the images drawn by German painters, i.e. a Norwegian national romance – that we should be placed in that booth, I don't find myself in. It's unfair, and it's the wrong use of rhetoric, because it's not right. The representative Tybring-Gjedde's production of Norway as a uniform cultural landscape with specific specifications does not exist. It did not exist until Norway became a nation and will not exist in the future either. It's a little heartache to say this kind of thing in such integration debates to the very representatives who are so concerned about this cultural unit. Because it's wrong -- it's never existed. It's 250 miles from my people's library in West Jakobsev to the National Gallery, and along all those miles down there are different dialects, different cultural perceptions of what's mine and our Norway, different ways of doing things, and different ways of singing and going on 17 May trains and having 17 May events. Yes, we're under one flag, we're one common nation, but this nation is then to those degrees multicultural, and it's always been.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1039	Let me first give some credit to the previous speaker: I think it was an awesome piece of stuff. Since my colleague Rigmor Aasrud is not here, but got a challenge in place, I thought I would answer for her on the question of Norwegian knowledge. It was misrepresented by the representative Ørsal Johansen as that the government, and the Council of State in particular, are not concerned about making demands on Norwegian knowledge, for example. employees of kindergartens, which is completely wrong. The only point is that we have confidence in being able to put these requirements in a sensible way at the workplace and that not all requirements need to be set centrally. That's all that's in this answer. Then I want to say quite briefly that several of the proposals that are being put forward in the Chamber today from both the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, are proposals that we are already working on. We disagree on some of this, such as: opening up more temporary jobs, for which the Left proposes, or anonymous job applications, for which we are not in favour – while other things we are in favour, and are already doing. In particular, there are many of the proposals relating to genital mutilation, which are a terrible violation – a human rights violation – where we need to do what we can to prevent and repair it. I'd like to pay tribute to our health care system, where they've been very good at taking in new knowledge right in this area and helping to both prevent and repair. They're making an effort that I think can be pretty tough too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1049	If I am the last person to speak, I think I should take the opportunity to thank you for a very good debate that I am very pleased that I have been allowed to join, and which I think serves this big deal – largely. Some closing comments: The left was looking for support for its proposals and thought that creativity had to flourish more, and that there was a bit of an idea-drier in the message. But when I read through the Left's proposal, I find nothing there that I cannot find coverage for in the message, so that the Left's proposal could to some extent be summarized in one proposal, or in one sentence: The government asks the government to do what the government in the Storing Message says it will do. And we agree with that, but I don't see the whole point of promoting it in the form of proposals. The left is not the main opponent of the Workers' Party in the integration debate – far from it. We have many common views. It's, as I said in the previous post, the Progress Party that stands out in what I would call a negative direction. I'm making a brief visit to Ulf Leirstein's post earlier today, where, on behalf of the Progress Party, he said that we need to reduce immigration and tighten up the proportion of asylum seekers in Norway. Those who receive asylum in Norway are entitled to protection under international rules. There is one way to limit the share of asylum in Norway: to break international human rights. I've never heard of any other parties, and I'm glad of that. Leirstein also argued that the minority could become a majority. No, take it easy. A good advice: Do not listen to party trap Amundsen, who has previously claimed that the Nordics are in a minority before 2050. Rather, go to the statistical statistics and the Central Statistical Office, which can make predictions, and sleep well overnight below. No Marte Thorkildsen mentioned that Rigmor Aasrud is not here. Yes, there are several government councils that should perhaps be here today. Anniken Huitfeldt was also addressed early in the debate: Morten Ørsal Johansen was concerned about whether, in view of his views on the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients, Anniken Huitfeldt had been criticised by his own party traps – «kaft» was probably the word that was used. I can calm Ørsal Johansen: No, Anniken Huitfeldt has not received it. This is how the social services law is structured, and that is how the qualification programme is structured – otherwise a programme that the Progress Party has consistently voted against, although it is a programme to get long-term social welfare beneficiaries out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1076	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1085	When we have just had a long and good debate on the importance of a targeted and comprehensive integration policy, with a focus on diversity, opportunities and communities, I find that the issue we are about to deal with is in quite a contrast to that. We are now going to take a position on a proposal for a representative that goes in the opposite direction. The proposal has been made by representatives Ørsal Johansen, Hagesetter and Starheim, all from the Progress Party, and is about tightening up the requirements for permanent residence permits in Norway. Some people will probably think that the requirements are too strict as they are. The majority of the population believe that the requirements should lie where they are and do not see the need to amend the legislation, at least not on the basis of this proposal. Nor did the Committee consider that it was necessary to consult on this matter. The proposers are promoting a total of ten proposals which are intended to make it more difficult for people to stay permanently. At the same time, the same proposers say that the aim is for those moving to Norway to be able to support themselves as quickly as possible. The last thing we all agree on, but none of the other parties here at Stortinget supports a view that is that making it harder to stay permanently is a good and sensible contribution to achieving that goal. The proposals promoted by the Progress Party in this matter can be divided into three groups. Six of the proposals deal with different ways of extending the period needed for permanent residence. Two of the proposals reinforce the requirements beyond that, while two proposals are to be regarded as a form of reward for so-called good behaviour. The period before permanent residence may be granted shall be doubled from today's requirement for three years' residence to a requirement of six years, cf. proposal No I. In addition, proposal No. 4 with a claim to have worked full-time for two and a half of the last three years and may not have received daily or social benefits for more than six months in the last three years. Proposal No. 6 implies that everyone must have passed a test in Norwegian before permanent residence can be granted. Proposals Nos. 9 and 10 means a significant tightening of the possibilities for family reunification by requiring the referee to have permanent residence first and that family reunification should never be granted the right to further family reunification. In addition, proposal No. 5 that all must make a declaration of integration and active citizenship before permanent residence can be granted. All the other parties oppose these proposals. A three-year residence should be more than enough. Nor do we support the requirement to work for a certain period. There are family immigration demands, and the majority believe that this is enough. As regards the question of passing a test in Norwegian for permanent residence, the majority point out that there is a discussion of this in the case of citizenship and that the discussion of language requirements should be limited to it. The proposals for further restrictions on the possibilities of family immigration are partly contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and will, on the one hand, constitute a severe restriction on the ability of children to reunite with a parent in Norway. In the majority's view, these are totally unreasonable demands. In addition, the Progress Party wants to further tighten the rules we already have to be able to refuse residence and deport persons who commit criminal acts. The majority believe the current legislation is good enough. Refusal of residence for all persons dependent on some form of financial benefit is also not reasonable, as the majority sees it. Finally, a few proposals are promoted which can be said to be a form of premiere of what the Progress Party considers to be good behaviour. The requirement for residence may be reduced by voluntary activity. The majority agree that such activities themselves are positive and can contribute to good integration, but it is difficult to see that it serves neither organisations nor individual members to introduce an element of coercion as initially voluntary activity. Finally, the majority also do not support a system where it takes time for permanent residence, depending on the speed with which individual is able to implement the introduction programme. It can quickly become some sort of unfair sorting. The majority are voting against all ten proposals, which the Progress Party is going to make on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1108	Some of the backgrounds for promoting this proposal for a representative are growing concerns about immigration to an extent that allows the Nordics to become a minority in their own country in the long term. Norway is not the country in Europe that receives the most immigrants, but Norway is the country that receives the most in relation to its population. Current immigration policy, for which the government is responsible and supported by the opposition parties – with the exception of the Progress Party – is neither responsible nor economically sustainable. As I see it, the current immigration policy is based on two myths. One myth is that immigration pays off. This is demonstrably wrong. On 10 May 2011 there was an important signal. It was the day that the Brochmann Committee delivered its nomination, NOU 2011: 7, Welfare and Migration, the future of the Norwegian model. The conclusion of the NOU is that immigration is not economically sustainable. If anyone in this room against assumption has not read the NOU and wonder why, I can tell you that the professional participation of immigrants is significantly lower than that of comparable Norwegians. Since then, this has been confirmed by the SSB. In the report ‘Macroeconomics and public finances in different scenarios for immigration’, presented in May 2012, one of the conclusions was that non-Western immigration weakens public finances. Furthermore, the report shows that from 2020 Norway will have a rather strenuous economy if nothing changes. The combination of high immigration and the world’s best welfare systems is a bomb under the welfare state. Continued high levels of immigration will mean that we will not be able to maintain our relatively generous welfare systems. It appears that the working life cycle of large immigrant groups is too short. The result is that two out of three immigrants go to social security, according to a report from the Frischsenter at the University of Oslo. 35 pst. the State budget is used for social security. It's a fainting 370 billion. kr. 20 pst. social security benefits for the pre-employment population. Can someone then tell me that it's sustainable? The second myth relates to multicultural diversity. What gain has this diversity given us? What we know is that the Grorud valley is being drained for the North, which, unlike most politicians, is experiencing diversity on a close basis. We know that Oslo is no longer a safe city, and that women should not go out alone at night. We also know that in countries where development has gone beyond this, the Heads of State, Angela Merkel, David Cameron, and now Nicholas Sarkozy have departed from multiculturalism. The biggest mistake that has been made in Norway in terms of integration is that one has not made demands on immigrants. Instead, we've tried to adapt. I find this completely pointless. What kind of guests make demands on the host? If one does not thrive in the host company, one can take advantage of one of the freedoms you have, namely to leave the company. The Party considers that permanent residence and, finally, citizenship should be held high. The proposals we are making in this matter are, in our opinion, not unreasonable claims, but any claim that anyone wants to be part of the Norwegian community may seem affordable. Finally, I would like to point out that with regard to the letters we have sent with questions to the Council of State, she has failed to respond because she disagrees with the proposals. We referred to some of these proposals, introduced in Denmark, and asked if Denmark has been convicted under the European Convention on Human Rights for some of them. Very familiar they haven't, but the Council of State has failed to answer the questions because she disagreed with the proposals, and didn't see the benefit of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1123	Would the representative Ørsal Johansen like to comment on the proposals in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1126	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1131	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1134	Policies must be experimentally knowledge-based. So, no, there are no research reports that show that so-called Nordics become minorities in their own country. It is time we got some references if that claim from the Progress Party is still to be used in debate after debate. Then there was the report from the Statistical Central Bureau. Note what the representative, Mr Johansen, said in his speech, that it says in that report ‘if nothing changes’. It was precisely the last debate that focused on what we have to do to make immigration and integration even more a success project for us. It's a necessary project for us. I repeat what I tried to say a little quickly in my last brief comment in the previous debate, that what the report politely showed was that as we still withdraw money from an oil fund, the main conclusion was that there are no Norwegians who are paying themselves today, by just using that fund. Then it's interesting that the party that wants to spend even more of the fund is so busy with this right here, because then the unprofitability of all of us will be even greater. Margreth Olin calls his film "The Others". It's an excellent film, and not least it's an excellent title. This is not at least confirmed by the Progress Party in this setting. Like us Norwegian, this Norwegian 'we' as a group, and then we have immigrants, 'the others', as a different group. There trust is the good word among us Norwegian, the Norwegian we, are distrustfully the dominant word we are going to approach them, the others, with. We, the Norwegians, are going to accept a break-in. For them, the others, it's deportation grounds. We, the Norwegians, have their own legislation that comes into force if we commit a crime or fail to pay debts. They, the others, have a different code, where the main point is: Out with them! We, the Norwegians, accept unemployment, and not least accept part-time – some actually think it's a plus if not least women work part-time over full-time. But they, the others, must have two choices – either full time or out of the country. We, the Norwegians, honor family as a good and a right. As for them, the others, they're not allowed to have such a right, they're not allowed to show that they have such a need, it's not supposed to count positively in any way -- there's opportunities to throw out parts of the family, then we throw out parts of the family. At least the Progress Party is very concerned about it. This is a sad approach, and thanks and thanks for the fact that the Progress Party is also standing here alone. It's an immediate selfish approach on the part of the Progress Party, and the slightly polite and interesting thing is that it's probably a very unwise approach in the long run. For Norway – as we got along so well in the previous debate – a country that is in many different ways very well served by the fact that, in the future, we will get immigration both quantitatively but not least qualitatively, that we get people with a different background, with a different way of thinking, with a different kind of competence, which makes Norwegian society better equipped to become a modern, exciting and attractive society in the future. So finally, a visit to Willy Pedersen, which I must commend to make a very good contribution to the previous debate: it was just a good contribution to the debate on what is ‘Norwegian’ and ‘Norwegian we’, and who is ‘them’ and ‘the others’. What Willy Pedersen said, very well shows that Trine Skei Grande from the Left had a very good point when she said that it is the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde who has an integration challenge, which in many ways is 'the other'.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1151	A moment ago, we debated the government's overall integration policy. Now it is the immigration policy of the Progress Party – or perhaps I should say ‘exclusion policy’ – that is up to debate. It is not as comprehensive, and I am glad that it does not have as much excitement as the government's integration policy. It is reassuring that the Progress Party is not supported by any other parties in the Committee. How the immigration policy of a possible government consisting of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right will probably not be answered before the elections – and hopefully we will not get an answer to it after the elections either. The immigration policy of the Progress Party is based on making demands. I do not disagree that demands must be made. Nor do I disagree that we have made more demands in recent years for immigrants who want to stay in Norway for a long time, but I think the Progress Party is going too far. It has been done quickly in the situation in Denmark, where politicians overwhelm themselves and screw-ticks were still tightened. Some of the requirements were finally very difficult to meet. A side effect was also that many in Denmark experienced a cold and harsh climate in the integration debate. That's a bad starting point for good inclusion. The Progress Party believes that the migration rate is tearing away the basis for good integration. I disagree. This government has led a strict but fair and humane immigration policy, and we will continue to do so. There is a completely different level of immigration to Norway than what we see in our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden. On VG Net today we could see the figures from 2012 on asylum applications: Norway has had an increase of 8 pst., Sweden at 48 pst. and Denmark on 61 p.m. In Syria alone, Norway received 327 applications last year, while neighbouring Sweden received about 327 applications. 8 000. We are not blue-eyed – we have challenges with integration also in Norway. That is why we must also have a high level of ambition in integration policy in the future. However, the large picture is that Norway is better able to integrate different immigrant groups than many other countries are. According to the Progress Party, immigrants are not sustainable. I'm afraid there are several of us who are not sustainable. Even for periods I have been partially dissatisfied because of chronic illness. I am probably neither sustainable nor profitable, but I can inform the representative Ørsal Johansen that I have not intended to put it on myself, and I have no intention whatsoever of having a bad conscience for it. For my part, I believe that a comprehensive integration policy must take a broader perspective than that proposed by the Progress Party and that the sum of demands must be reasonable. In this context, I refer to the said Communication on Integration Policy, to the attitude and to my contribution to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1171	I won't say so much. We have had a long integration debate before this issue, which is honest, both in terms of integration policy and honestly in view of the challenges we face. This is how we had a good debate in the previous round, where action was also pointed to, what needs to be done better. Otherwise it's nice to hear the representative Heidi Greni talk about a human asylum policy. I just want to remind the representative Heidi Greni that the word «human» has been removed from Soria Moria II. Many of us miss that word and want it to come back. The OECD has determined that, compared with many other countries in Europe, integration is largely good in Norway. We succeed in many areas. We have challenges – we have been honest about that, and we shall be telling the truth about that – but integration is largely good in Norway. But even though we have this ‘knowledge base’, we are told that integration is almost a failure. In many ways, contrary to the knowledge we have, it is the message from the Progress Party. Then they have to travel to Denmark to learn more about how to tighten up even more – I don't understand. Another question, and another observation, is that when the Progress Party is talking about integration and inclusion policies, they very often savor it with immigration policies. I feel that the tightening-up measures promoted in this matter are more about tightening up immigration policy than about integration policy, and I would strongly warn against mixing these two things, because then we will not get any further. An example of this is when the Advance Party will tighten up family reunions. Indeed, many of us see that family reunification can be an integration promotion. Nevertheless, there is where the Progress Party will tighten up, in order to avoid more people coming to Norway. Integration and inclusion work is a work that needs to be facilitated so that everyone can succeed in the Norwegian community. I do not think that these proposals from the Progress Party will help to build up under it – rather on the contrary. This is an integration work that creates more distance and extraterritorial space than inclusion and integration. It is also, as we were in the previous round, in the previous debate, about this by facilitating social mobility. These proposals do not facilitate this. My most serious point of appeal is that integration policy and immigration policy are mixed together here, and that is usually very wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1184	The President would point out that using the term ‘sauce together’ on the policy of other representatives and other parties is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1188	Immigration legislation is constantly evolving, and several of the key changes that have been made in the last decade include: aimed at facilitating better integration. Intensifications have been made in the asylum policy towards persons who do not have a real need for protection, the family immigration legislation has been reinforced, and mandatory training in Norwegian and social skills has been required to obtain permanent residence permits. At the same time, we all agree that there are still challenges and the need to develop policy further. I believe, however, that the proposals that the rapporteurs have put forward here are not the right ones. I think it is necessary to remember what is the main consequence of a permanent residence permit, namely that you have the right to stay even when you no longer meet the conditions of the original residence permit. This means, for example: that if you were married, you do not lose your residence permit even if your marriage ends. If you extend the residence requirement to, for example: six years – as proposed by the proposers – this means that the alienation authorities have to regularly assess whether the conditions for the original authorisation are still met until six years. If the foreigner is not allowed to leave Norway. For example, the representatives consider that: that a foreign spouse who has lived for five years in Norway will have to leave the country if the marriage that gave the residence permit was broken? I have noticed that the proposal can be understood in such a way that the increased terms of the permanent residence permit will only be decisive for the status of the residence permit – whether it will be permanent or renewed every year. I am referring to the fact that the proposers in the vote say that the person who has come as a spouse through the family immigration code should not be refused further residence even if the marriage is dissolved, but that it will only take longer to obtain a permanent residence permit. In this case, it is unclear to me which renewal assessment the proposers believe should be carried out. I must stress that the introduction of such aggravated conditions as the proposers wish will result in a more complex and comprehensive procedure to determine who is entitled to a permanent residence permit. And in this context, I have to remind you that last year, the foreign administration dealt with more than 18 000 cases of permanent residence permits. I would also like to stress that the proposal will lead to a large number of people refusing to apply for a permanent residence permit. However, they will continue to comply with the terms of the temporary residence permit, and their cases must therefore be reviewed at each renewal – which I suppose the proposers believe will happen once a year. This will, of course, lead to increased use of resources in the foreign administration. When it comes to defining immigration policy, we must have an overall approach. It is in the context of initial permits that we need to give the most attention to control and consideration to regulated immigration. In the case of renewal and permanent residence permits, the main focus must be on rapid and effective treatment. Of course, in this context we should also pay attention to control and regulation, but on this point I believe that today's legislation maintains a good balance. As Minister of Justice and Defence, I can assure you that I am also committed to having the necessary rules to respond to foreigners who commit crime. The most important thing in this context is the rules on expulsion. In those cases where expulsion is not relevant, we have rules on the quarantine period for a permanent residence permit. I will always be aware that adjustments may be needed, but I do not think that is the basis for such horizontal changes proposed by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1212	In this case, the party of progress has sent questions to the Council of State twice. We have not received an answer at any time to what we asked for. I re-addressed questions to the Council of State from the interlocutory now in this case, and received no response to what I asked for under the articles of the Council of State. I try again: Which of the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted here – and that Denmark has introduced – has Denmark been condemned under the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1219	When I reply to requests from committees in the Grand Duchy or from representatives, I take on board the proposals that have been put forward. They are not identical in this respect to Danish legislation and practice. It is true that in my letter of reply I have shown that some of the proposals could be problematic in relation to our obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights – not least the rules on the right to family life. The point is that the proposers have not said anything in their proposals if they want to make such exceptions as, among other things, the Danish rules contain, for example: related to the right to family reunification.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1224	I must correct the Council of State a little, because the proposals that the Danes have put in place – and as we are proposing here – have been cut straight from what the Danish Parliament has adopted. My second question is: has Denmark been convicted under the European Convention on Human Rights for any of these decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1231	I was about to mention the rules on the right to family reunification, for example. between children and parents. It is in my opinion that we must carefully assess whether they conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights. Let me give a concrete example: if a refugee is to have had full-time work for two and a half of the last three years in order to have a family reunion with a spouse — and children that he or she had before coming to Norway — this will be more stringent practice than in any other European country. I can only see that these are issues that would have to be carefully assessed against the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1238	Since no one else has signed a line, the representative Ørsal Johansen also receives the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1241	I am referred to as a reasonably twisted man a few times, because I usually don't give up when I don't get an answer to something I wonder about. Now I want to try one last time – at least in this context – to get a yes or no response from a government council, which I know can be incredibly difficult. However, I try: What of the measures taken in Denmark has Denmark been convicted of under the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1248	Now I have given an example of a case that should be carefully assessed against the Convention. As long as the proposalers themselves have not been specific about the exceptions to the general rules proposed, and there are a number of exceptions in the Danish legislation, it is difficult to answer the question asked. I must also point out that there are a number of rules in the Danish legislation that have now been amended recently. There were also several rules that were very difficult to enforce and control the implementation of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1253	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1258	I would first like to say that I think it is embarrassing that we have a government council that shows the degree of arrogance to the Stortinget and does not answer a specific question from the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen about what decisions Denmark had made, and what they were condemned for. The government's council dismissed this time and time again. It seemed to me to be an arrogance that is embarrassing, and I thought the Council of State should take the floor again and answer the specific and clear question. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, and it comes from – in addition to having great natural resources – that we have one of the world's highest jobs and highest productivity. There are very few countries that have as high employment and as high productivity as Norway has. It is then unthinkable that someone can claim that it would be to add values when there are immigrants who have lower employment and lower productivity than we have in Norway. Last year, 50 000 arrived in Norway. It creates some challenges, and numbers show that they have lower employment — at least after a while — and lower productivity than the Nordics initially have. We also have a large surplus on the state budget, on which the representative Aksel Hagen was in. We have a surplus of 380 billion. kr, we have an oil fund of over 4,000 billion. kr, and if one calculates the axes on which the country is located, etc. in Statoil, this represents more than 5000 billion. kr and more than approx. One million. kr per capita. More than 1 billion will be transferred. kr in the day – just since we started this debate, more than 150 million have been transferred. kr to the oil fund. Aksel Hagen says that if we use oil money, none of us will be profitable, then everyone will be wretched. Then I want to ask the question to the representative Aksel Hagen: Is there a believer in SV, that oil comes up from the North Sea and from the base of itself, without anyone asking for it, without anyone providing value to bring it up? Then I just want to say that then you should take a study – there too – and see how the creation of value is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1270	Using the expression ‘arrogance’ on the posts of other representatives or state councils in this Chamber is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1273	I just felt the need to take the word a few minutes. It's about our claim that we're going to be a minority in our own country. We're not the ones that make that statement, we're not the ones that have made figures on it, it's the Statistical Central Bureau. When the Central Statistical Office has its population projections, it has three alternatives: low, medium and high. So statistical central agency and a lot of politicians use the middle option as the right one. But it turns out time and time again that the middle option has proved to be wrong. According to the mid-range option, by 2020, Norway’s population would be five million people. We passed five million people last June. According to the High Option, we would pass five million in 2015. Even there, the Statistical Central Bureau bombed for a few years. So the numbers that we have are taken from our own completely open population projections of the Central Statistical Office, and we've said that if the high-alternative comes in, it'll be like that. So immigration and integration belong together. There are two sides of the same thing, no matter how a turn and turn on it. I think it's nice that the Christian People's Party has changed politics to those degrees. They will now vote against proposals that they have previously been with the Left on, which relate to gender mutilation. It disappoints me that the Christian People's Party no longer sees the importance of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1282	First of all, a little humorous: I think Morten Ørsal Johansen and I agree on one thing, and that is that «sauce together» is a good dialectic expression in the interior and thus on the border of parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1287	That is not a parliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1290	But it's a good dialectic expression. So it was for Gjermund Hageseter and the discussion we have about this with profitability. I was just trying to refer to what that report is doing. It takes a profitable reflection on us and, as a matter of fact, finds that the groupings smaller in the labour market are so called more unprofitable than the full-time groupings in the labour market. That's the one. The second – and that’s what I think is a bit funny about the report that so many have pointed out – is that that report also finds out that we are all unprofitable. The Nordics are by definition unprofitable, all the time we have to take out money from the oil fund to finance our activity. To me, it was just a little humorous, funny observation of what comes out of a Central Statistical Bureau report, and that has to do with the method used – otherwise a methodical approach that I don't share, and there it looks like Gjermund Hagesetter and I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1297	I'm not going to keep any long posts, but I'm going to mention some of the numbers that are used. It won't be any more true if you repeat it over and over again. This also applies to the use of figures from the Progress Party that we become a minority in our own country. It's also a little bit special, I'd like to add, you know, you're questioning the SSB's own numbers, but you're still using them -- you can't say anything with certainty, and then you're going to give a couple of examples of why they're insecure. Yet: 36 pst. – if the predictions of the Progress Party strike – by the Norwegian population will have a migrant background in 2070. Then the immigrants are not the majority; there is still a large majority of the country's population who will be ethnic Norwegian. The number usage – and the number magic – that I often experience in the arguments of the Progress Party in these kinds of things, I would say is wrong. And the threat in the Progress Party is that immigrant groups should take over as the majority in this country, not vote and not lead to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1304	I thought I'd take my State Council in defense. It's not embarrassing, as Gjermund Hageseter says, but very smart of the government council not to answer the kind of trick questions that the Progress Party comes with here. Because I have a suspicion, without knowing it, that the answer to that question knows the Progress Party very well – Denmark has not been convicted in the European Court of Human Rights. The party of progress had well thought that the answer that one would try to provoke from the Council of State would later be used to legitimize the proposals of the Progress Party. However, the Council of State has just pointed out that the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting here are not comparable to those of the Danish, because the proposals of the Progress Party lack significant exceptions. It's not possible to compare apples and pears, and I think it's very wise of the council not to go into it either. Finally, with regard to the figures for immigration for which the Progress Party is so afraid: 40 years ago, there were about 50 000 immigrants in Norway, mainly from other Nordic countries and EU/EEA countries. Today there are 600 000 immigrants in this country. If one compares over time, from 50,000 to 600 000, Norway today has many immigrants. However, if we compare with other EU/EEA countries, Norway is somewhere on average. In addition, we have the second highest population growth in the EU/EEA region, due to higher birth rates and longer life expectancy, among others. among the ethnic Norwegian population. And what has increased most is labour immigration from the EU and Eastern European countries. There is probably one Oslo representative in the room, but since no one has felt like saying anything about the Groruddalen to correct the impression that the Progress Party tried to give here initially, I would say that the Statistical Central Bureau has shown that the Groruddalen has as much social problems as one has seen in, for example. parts of Malmø and Paris. The Agency says that there will probably be a majority of immigrants in Groruddalen. There are some social problems there, but some social problems concern ethnic Northmen. So many immigrants do better in the Grorud valley than elsewhere, statistical central agency can tell us. I have also seen other research reports saying that the attempt to label Groruddalen as a ghetto does not match reality. The Groruddalen is a conglomerate of many different nationalities, and we see that people who live there are happy in their valley.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1315	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1329	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1338	The points raised by the proposers are dealt with in three paragraphs. They want to bring together the political and administrative responsibilities of all major government ICT projects in one department, which are empowered to exercise an overall strategic ICT management. Secondly, the proposers want better management of the individual state ICT project. Thirdly, the proposers wish to impose horizontal requirements for the implementation of dietary/benefit analyses in state-owned ICT projects. The proposers have pointed out the problems involved in the submission of declarations, with the Altin system, which probably reflect what was most topical when the proposal was written. During this discussion, we have more recent examples, which will probably also illustrate the problems of the proposers. The proposers believe that there is reason to ask for, for example: The Altin case is a symptom of a major problem, namely the lack of management of ICT projects in the public sector. They indicate that the state does not have an overview of the extent of public use for ICT purposes this year, and that staff in the Nav, police and health sectors are concerned about systems that do not work, lack of governance and a digital everyday life that are still far away. A majority of the Committee, the Government Parties, refers to the State Council's letter of reply of 17 October 2012 and supports the Council of State's assessment of the individual proposals contained in the Representative's proposal 144 S. The majority emphasise that the government is in the process of establishing a common infrastructure, a core wall, for all ICT solutions in the public sector. Similarly, the majority believe that the common component approach could be an important driver for coordinating and standardising ICT solutions across sectors. At the same time, common components contribute to a reduction in the overall cost level of ICT solutions in the sectors, including: due to the re-use and co-use of ICT components. I will therefore move on to explain the views of my own party, which has also been led by the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. These parties agree that it is an important societal issue that the public implements strategic ICT initiatives that provide society with the greatest possible return in terms of more efficient provision of services and a simpler everyday life for the public. These parties, together with the proposers, will point out that good coordination and management of ICT projects will be critical factors for the realisation of the profit potential. In conclusion, the three batches support the proposal for a comprehensive dietary benefit assessment in the projects. That is why, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, I can raise motion No. 1, which goes into it. We're a little bit more daunting when it comes to the organization issue itself. This with one department may have advantages and disadvantages, but we do not think it is the departmental organization that is the biggest problem. It is rather the implementing force. There we have a rather gruesome example of the fact that a very long time has passed since the Stortinget passed a new penal code in 2005. While we are dealing with the matter today, I can see that it has not entered into force, and that the newspapers the other day could tell us that it probably does not come into force until 2021, although the Justice Council has been quoted as saying that she hopes it can happen in 2017. It's more of an expression of lack of implementation, because it has very little to do with technology. We have allowed ourselves to look at the conditions of the previous penal code, which was passed in 1902, and which entered into force at the next turn of the year, after it was adopted in Stortinget. They had typewriters like the state of the art, so they would probably wonder that the generation 100 years later can't do this within a frame of, let's say, 10 to 16 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1355	The representative Michael Tetzschner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1358	In connection with the proposal by the representatives of the big business representatives, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Hans Olav Syversen and Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad on better coordination and strategic management of ICT projects in the public sector, I would like to refer to the comments of the majority of the committee. The majority, consisting of the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, support the assessments of individual proposals by the Council of State. In 2012, the Government presented the digitisation programme ‘Net with the population’, which will facilitate a faster meeting between the public sector and the citizens of Norway. It is also expected that such a change, or rotation, from traditional public meeting places to digitised meeting places, will improve public sector resource use. The majority of the Committee also emphasises the efforts of the government to bring together and establish a common technical platform and an adapted regulatory framework for the digital management of the country's common ICT solutions. Proposals challenge too wide a variation in national ICT solutions, highlighting the weakness of communication between systems. The government responds to this issue when, in dealing with this issue, it highlights the work of establishing a common infrastructure – a basis for all countries’ ICT solutions. The purpose of such a digital base wall is to create so-called common components, which can be used together and reused by all public enterprises. Examples of common components are platforms such as Altinn, the ID port, the People's Register, the Unit Register and the Matrikkel. The extent to which these platforms are used varies slightly, but the objective is for all public undertakings to put this infrastructure into service. The majority of the Committee expects that the coordinated digitisation work launched at ministerial level will contribute to good digital joint solutions. The majority of the Committee considers that the coordination and involvement of digitisation will provide a good framework for the operation and management of the public sector. Although coordination and re-use work is to a large extent, I believe that diversity in the public sector will sometimes also require specific sectorial ICT solutions. I believe it would be unrealistic to expect all services to be delivered on the same platform. This can also be cost-effective for the core activities of the agency, because it adapts the service to the system rather than vice versa. The government also highlights this issue in its letter to the Committee and therefore shows a very broad reflection on the issues raised in this matter. In conclusion, I would like to highlight some of the assumptions on which the minority in the Committee bases these proposals, namely the perception of a public sector that is a waste of public funds, which lacks or lacks capacity and understanding of rational activities, and that in the public sector there is a ‘generally weak understanding of the importance of equipment investment in order to support the efficiency of individual employees’. These are assumptions and generalisation of the public sector which the undersigned does not support. I think it's an attempt to paint a picture of a public sector that's totally inefficient, that doesn't do the things they're supposed to do, and that doesn't take responsibility for the tasks they're going to do, in terms of economics. I think that is wrong. If we use health care examples, where you work very rationally, and where you have a big focus on keeping costs in check and providing good service, then all the prerequisites for this proposal must give a wrong picture of the public sector. I'd like to highlight that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1375	In the light of the Progress Party, it is particularly important that the public implements strategic ICT initiatives that can give society the greatest possible return in terms of more efficient service provision, a simpler everyday life and better service for its citizens. Therefore, the Progress Party will agree to more comprehensive requirements for the implementation of cost-benefit analyses in State ICT projects, so that the costs and complexity of the projects can be minimised. It is also very important that the public sector achieves the potential for profits in ICT investment adopted. I would like to point out here the enormous gains that Danish people have made in implementing their ICT strategies. Good coordination and management of ICT projects is therefore essential. While the amount of innovation in the private sector is ICT driven, the situation in the public sector is that one is lagging behind in technical progress. In the public sector, the importance for efficiency of taking stock of equipment investments to support individual employees is generally weak. The party of progress will claim that the potential to implement ICT is weakly developed in areas where the public has monopoly. Nor does an interest in purchasing systems that are fully developed by others with similar activities. So it's not always necessary to reinvent the powder. Altin and other portals do not solve the fundamental challenges of missing coordination between large state-owned units and the unnecessarily large public use of public money resulting from this. Had a patient journal system been in place a few years ago, significant amounts of community funds had been saved. Perhaps a combination of the Nav pension systems and the State pension fund should instead develop two systems at a very high cost. The Progress Party believes that it should be considered to set up a group of ICT experts attached to a coordination department, as Denmark has done, and that this should be done regardless of whether one will bring together ICT responsibility more clearly in one department. Such a group may replace precious consultants in their respective projects. In addition, it could contribute to a valuable exchange of experience between state projects, thus being more effective than traditional consultants, who do not have professional knowledge. The Progress Party believes that ICT development does not have to go at the cost of privacy and people's right to privacy. It is therefore important that strong data supervision and clear legal boundaries relate to the types of information that authorities and private bodies can collect about people and benefit from. The Progress Party supports the proposers' intentions to better manage their ICT projects in the country and to make better use of the financial resources made available to them. We want to add an important dimension: ICT security. We want to point out the many attacks that are being carried out on national infrastructure from different sources and environments. Better governance of ICT projects in the country must also include a greater focus on secure solutions, and national critical ICT infrastructure needs to be better protected from its user-righted services. Finally, I will address the proposals behind the Progress Party, either alone or together with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1401	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1404	Let me start with the positive. One of the country's most important ICT projects, Altinn, seems to have worked better this year than in previous years. It's worth it to rejoice over. With the fact that the case-rapporteur mentioned Altinn, who was one of the starting points of this proposal for a representative, I think it is right to mention it – and start with the positive. We're going to enjoy it. Nevertheless, the state's ICT management cannot be informed, in our view. The state does not have an overview of how much ICT is spent this year. Staff in Nav, in the police and in the health sector are concerned about systems that do not always work, and digital everyday life is still far away in many sectors. On the basis of these problems, there may be several structural challenges. Firstly, there is a lack of coordination and failed incentives for efficient resource use. Why, for example, should The state pension fund has its own digital pension calculator for the inhabitants, when Nav had already developed one? Why have several patient journal systems been introduced instead of having one? There is also a lack of coordination of the functional requirements of the ICT system. The contracts specify the characteristics of the ICT solution, but do not specify whether any requirements are more important than others. The result is that suppliers have to solve all the requirements, often making solutions unnecessarily complex, and increasing complexity increases the risk of errors and is considerably more resource-intensive. Today, the Christian People's Party is promoting proposals to bring together political and administrative responsibility for all major government ICT projects in one department. Such overall governance can improve the coordination of ICT projects, so as to avoid today's situation where large projects are run almost independently of each other, and where the same problem is usually solved several times. Better coordination of operational organisations and better interconnection of procurement and solutions may be possible, so as to avoid different state-owned enterprises choosing different solutions to meet the same needs. Secondly, better management of the individual project is needed, and competence building is important here. It is necessary to establish incentives for cost-effective solutions that are reasonable to manage. The Ministry responsible for ICT management should be part of the project organisations with an owner’s perspective and should be a driver for optimal use of the funds. Thirdly, dietary/benefit analysis is not enough in relation to public ICT projects. Thus, functionality is often implemented, even if, for example: manual handling would be more profitable. This makes the solutions unnecessary expensive and complex. The Christian People's Party proposes that more comprehensive requirements should be made for diet-benefit analyses to be carried out in order to limit the costs and complexity of projects. In addition, the Christian People's Party proposes a long-term overall ICT strategy for state-owned enterprises covering the following key elements: Firstly, it is appropriate to provide an overview of large state-owned ICT investments, almost as far as road development is concerned. Secondly, there should be leads for overall road choices, e.g.: common applications across government units and centralisation of databases and management. There are a number of databases with personal data that may be manageable in a more reasonable and safer way, such as: the public register, the Nav, the police and the licence register. Thirdly, assessments should be made of the potential for collapsing large projects with overlapping functional areas or using standardised tools rather than tailoring. Fourth, a State ICT strategy should include leadership for the implementation of projects, including: prioritisation of requirements, standardisation, dietary/benefit analyses, acquisition and profit implementation. These are some of the things that the Christian People's Party is addressing in this proposal for a representative, and I am pleased that both the Advance Party and the Right partly support both the intention and some of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1437	Investment in ICT is important but also difficult. They are important because they are key to an efficient and user-friendly public sector. But they are also difficult. On the one hand, ICT is of little value if we do not change the work processes at the same time, adapt the legislation and make ICT a strategic part of each activity. If we are to succeed in the projects, they must be implemented in close contact with leaders and employees in a diverse country. On the other hand, we don't get the values of ICT if we don't cooperate across levels. We need to exchange data and offer common solutions to citizens and businesses. Each establishment may not have its own solution for electronic ID and secure electronic mail. That means we have to control and coordinate. It is not easy, but smart coordination and governance are even more difficult. A few years ago, we were in a situation of weak governance and coordination. We've done something about that. We have done so because we believe that governance and coordination are important when we are saving money and offering good offers to users. We've established diffi, which is the state coordinator in this field. We've developed important common solutions, like electronic IDs. We are now making common demands, such as standards and architecture principles, that all the institutions must follow. Every year, we send out the common requirements for state-owned ICT projects. We've set up Skate, which brings together the most important team leaders to coordinate. We have established procedures for my ministry to evaluate ICT proposals before allocating budget resources. This has produced results. When the Riksrevision compared the situation in 2011 with the situation in 2007, the assessment of my department was significantly more positive. At the same time, they pointed out that there was more to do – and we have. At Easter hours last year, the government launched its digitisation program. It paves the way forward towards a fully digitized administration. Strengthening governance and coordination is a necessary part. We have put in place new tools for better project implementation, including: The project wizard. We have supported the establishment of the Kommit, which is the local authority for coordination, and we have invited Kommit in with the state leaders. We have established better coordination at departmental level. We are working systematically to change the regulatory framework for digitisation. We have launched our own information security strategy and bring together the responsibility for ICT security to support the strategy. But in everything we've done and planned, it's at the bottom of how ICT responsibility has to be linked to sector and business responsibilities. Therefore, we will not combine political and administrative responsibility for all major ICT investments in one department and under one government council. Although best intended, the proposal could create inefficiencies and solutions that are not good, lengthy processes and complex lines of responsibility across the Councils' responsibility for their own sector. As an IT minister, I will influence the framework for projects both in my own department and in other sectors. But it's far from this to take over all the projects. It would not be right for me to be responsible for the modernisation programmes in Nav, or for ICT projects in the police or in the Biotechnology topic. The tension between the different ICT investments in the country is high and ICT responsibility should not be shifted away from professional responsibility. We have to make common demands, but the value of the overall requirements for better decision-making and decision-making must not exceed the value of the extra work and the additional costs we impose on the enterprises. So finally, it's said here that we don't have an overview of the ICT spending in the state. Yeah, we asked because Stortinget wanted it. So from the 2011 accounts, we know that we're using 10.8 billion. ICT in the country and all major ICT projects are subject to the same quality assurance rules as other major investment projects in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1467	The majority adopted a new penal code in 2005. It's been eight years. Among other things, there was an increased possibility of condemning increased punishment for those who commit terrorist attacks. So there are legal provisions that could have been applied to the 22nd of July governor, if the penal code had been in operation. It is not, given that you have insurmountable – later on – ICT problems. However, it does not look like it should be implemented soon either, for a colleague of the Council of State, the Minister of Justice, has now indicated that 2017 can be a starting point, while the newspapers believe that it can only take place in 2020-2021. Can the State Council say what year the ICT problems will be solved, so that the criminal law is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1474	I can tell the representative, Tetzschner, that parts of the 2005 penal code have been included in today’s legislation, as many of the provisions that were new in 2005 have been included in the criminal law that now applies – including many of the areas where Tetzschner was in. Then, earlier in this Chamber, the Minister of Justice has explained the ICT work that is taking place in her department. Substantial efforts are being made to improve ICT solutions in the justice sector. As the Minister of Justice has said before, it is a programme under the Value Added Programme, which defines several projects and deliveries separately and guarantees quality. I think it is important that the Minister of Justice is given the opportunity to implement those projects and carry out the necessary quality assurance projects before we can go out with exactly what date and what year you have completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1481	I asked a very specific question. I have to put it again: does the Council know when the new penal code is being implemented? The answer that it is already covered in many paragraphs of the old penal code is not a satisfactory answer, because that was a reason why the Stortinget adopted a new penal code. It was just because you weren't supposed to have the old one, you were supposed to have a new penal code. So the question is again, when does the new penal code come into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1486	The introduction of new criminal law is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and through the Minister of Justice. I have informed that the Minister of Justice is working to put in place the ICT systems needed to introduce new criminal law, that there is a work in progress and that the Minister of Justice is in the process of ensuring quality. When new criminal law can be introduced, I believe that is a question that should be addressed to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1491	The Council of State agreed that this with coordination and governance is not easy. What we're pointing at here is, among other things, coordinating and managing it so that the individual establishments, using any of the same systems, do not have to reinvent the powder each time. For example, I pointed. of the State pension fund. Why should they have their own digital pension calculator for the inhabitants when Nav has already developed one? Why have several patient journal systems been introduced instead of one? These are examples of how resources are used and where better coordination might save society from large resources. There is one of these things I want to challenge the Council of State on: Does she really think this is sound resource use?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1496	There has been a lot of resource use that has not made sense over time because we have allowed each department to develop its own ICT systems. We have done so now by introducing requirements for common standards and common architecture principles. We also want to use more standard software. So it's like whether we make decisions in this room or in the government college, the old ICT systems don't change for that reason. It will take time before we have ICT systems that are well connected, because we have to replace a lot of old systems that are not based on the standards and architecture principles that we have now adopted. With the grips we're taking, we're doing the right things for the future, but there will still be systems that hang out because they're developed according to different principles than those that apply today. But it is important now that we follow up and have a great deal of pressure that we ensure that no systems are developed outside of the standards and principles that have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1503	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1508	The non-implementation or enforcement of criminal law is an obstruction of the will of the legislator. If you look at Ot.prp. No 90 for 2003–04 under economic and administrative consequences, it is not there in a single word that this law cannot be enforced because of organisational, technical or economic circumstances. The size must then be able to assume that it will be implemented within a reasonable time. By responding to what the Council of State did today, and referring to the Ministry of Justice, I believe that the points made by the proposers have basically been illustrated, that no one is taking responsibility. This is in fact the Council of State that the government has sent to answer questions about ICT. We know that ICT is the biggest adjunct to the failure to implement the new penal code, and she cannot respond to it on the grounds that the department is working on the matter. It won't stop there. It is also the case that on 12 March the daily newspaper could refer to the national auditor who ‘races against years of data trouble in hospitals’ – i.e. the health services – there are two departments for which the State and the government of the Grand Duchy have direct daily responsibility. It can't be either democratic or satisfactory that this lack of power causes the state's will, as expressed in this Chamber, to be unimplemented. This is a government that is good for communicating, but quite simply for implementing. I had also expected a more obligating response, at least indications of when one intended to carry out the legislative will in this house. The Penal Code is not any law, either. It's actually pretty central. I have already pointed out that this has had material consequences in one of the biggest killing cases in Norway's history, which has not received the penalty provided by this hall and this house. It is in itself a democratic problem with a government that obstructs the Storing. And then you get to say good that the government should have, that it doesn't make a difference between the size and the others. It also treats people in health queues in the same way. So they treat high and low the same way. But that here one has a management problem because one cannot manage elementary ICT projects, I believe this debate has shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1521	I cannot take responsibility for the wording that was in the United Kingdom in 2003 and 2004, and what assessments were made at that time when it was suggested that the penal code could be promoted without significant economic consequences. There are probably others in this room who are better at answering than I am. ICT has come to be, and we use it in all sectors, in all parts of society, in all parts of central government. It is therefore important that ICT, strategic thinking, the implementation of individual systems and the priority of which ICT systems are the most important must be made by the individual entity, which ensures both implementation and planning. It must then be that the individual State Council also makes assessments of what is right to do at each time. I experience that State Council Faremo has given a good response that a major ICT project is now under way in the Ministry of Justice that will also bear fruit. So it's my responsibility to make sure that we create systems that are interconnected, that we can use components across, so we don't make unnecessary investments in the individual departments. I'm glad we've got a good system now. That means that the mistakes that were made earlier when we established each of our ICT systems, we will avoid in the future. But it'll take a long time before we get there, because the old systems are still there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1530	I hope the more discerning observers noticed the Council's response. It implied that it was those who wrote Ot.prp. No 90 for 2003–04 which underestimated the implications of implementing the criminal law. But it was the Stortinget that passed the Penal Code in 2005, and from that time on, the current government has been responsible for implementation. It could be that those who wrote Ot.prp. No 90 for 2003–04, had hopes that there was a more effective government that would still have after the 2005 elections – we do not know that. But it is therefore a standing requirement to implement the legislative proposals made by this national Parliament as Norwegian law. To point out that the world is still going on — given that many of the provisions of the 1902 penal code are not out of date — is in an arrogant way to get over the will of the Grand Council’s legislator, for there is a reason why the Grand Duchy chose to give us a new penal code in 2005. In my opinion, this is once again a pretty good example that this government may be useful in communicating, but it is one continuous paralysis of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1551	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1560	The Castle shall appear in a new theme for the Constitutional Jubilee on 17 May 2014. A Joint Municipal and Administrative Committee recommends that the Storting adopt today the changes in the State budget that are necessary for work to start and be completed by the Constitutional Jubilee. Installation start already in May 2013. I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for contributing to the swift and smooth handling of the matter. The Committee points out in its opinion that the Castle and the Castle Square constitute one of the main symbols of Norway and the national community. The castle site is also a tourist attraction, which every year is visited by thousands of tourists from abroad. As the nation's foremost parade ground, the Castle Square will have a central role in marking the Constitutional Jubilee. It is a long-term rehabilitation work that is now under way, both for those who travel daily across the Castle Square, for tourism and for the nation as such. For too long we have had a castle site that has sometimes been a little representative, difficult to move on and that has caused problems for the neighbors around. The problems are linked to poor drainage. Large amounts of precipitation lead to a run-off of rainwater that excavates large runs, pits and holes. When the water runs down the Castle Square, it takes a lot of gravel. The condition has deteriorated from year to year and increases the cost of maintenance and repair. Neighbors have not been modest either. It is reported that the Royal Court has received complaints from the University of Oslo, which has suffered water damage in the historical library, because of gravel that has stopped to drain water. Rehabilitation of the Castle Square has been discussed several times in recent years. Top-level coverage selection has been a topic for discussion. The solution to which it is now added implies the establishment of a new fixed top of stabilised gravel in a transparent binder. Well, as important as the new deck is the basic work to be done, with the replacement of mass and drainage. The project also involves the rehabilitation of roads and pavements related to the site. All of this will give the Slottsplatz a representative look and a more rational operating and maintenance situation. A cost framework of 70 million is proposed. kr. The project is proposed in the Proposition funded by Staatsbygg kap. 1581 Royal property rights item 30 Larger rehabilitation projects. For 2013 it is granted 37.94 million. kr in this entry for the completion of the roof project at the Royal Palace of Stockholm. However, the final forecast of the project is about. Twenty million. DKR below the budget. Twenty million. Therefore, re-disposal of kr to the project at Slottspladsen is proposed. In addition, it is proposed to increase the allocation of entry 30 by 37.5 million. kr and to increase item 1 Operating expenditure by 2,5 million. kr. As indicated in the opinion, the Committee took note of the fact that the text of the proposal was not fully consistent with the proposal for a decision. The non-compliance concerns the proposal to increase the capped allocation. 1581 Royal property rights item 30 Larger rehabilitation projects. The text of the proposal refers to an increase of 75.44 million. kr, whereas the draft decision contains 74,44 million. kr. The Committee considers that the amount resulting from the proposal for a decision in the proposal appears to be an obvious incurrency and therefore proposes that the decision to amend the budget be taken under the heading. 1581 item 30 represents an increase to 75.44 million. kr – not to SEK 74,44 million. kr as stated in the draft decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1573	The right would like to support the setting in the conclusion that a cost framework is being established to enable the Castle to be put in good shape for the 2014 Constitutional Jubilee. The rapporteur now used the term 'new theme' and it is a mild exaggeration. What to do with this allocation is to re-establish the gravel cover and maybe also solve the run-off problems with gravel that users of the city will know about. So far it has been that parts of the gravel have after a while ended up in Karl Johan's gate, and it is probably fine when it is brought in properly. But there won't be any new themes. It's going to be gravel, and we think it's sin, and that's what we'll notice in the matter when we're going to vote for this concrete allocation. We would like to point out that the opportunity should have been used to assess how alternative design and coating could have provided the Castle with a more valuable castle site of higher technical and aesthetic quality than the place as it is now. Of course, such an assessment could also include the long-term maintenance costs of a cover of higher quality content. But as I said, we're going to support the allocation of this money, so the anniversary of the Constitution can take place in the best forms that it is now possible to create, within the time frame that you're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1580	I am pleased that we are faced with a decision to upgrade the Castle Square; this case has been discussed for years. The debate has taken place on costs, and it has focused not least on the types of cover to be used. In close cooperation with the Antiquarian authorities and the Royal House, agreement has been reached on the use of gravel as a top cover. State buildings have done a thorough pre-work. Different types of top decks have been tested. An inspection has been carried out in England and Denmark to study similar top decks that are now proposed for use in the Castle Square. That there is a need to repair the Castle Square, there is no doubt about it. The challenges with the Castle Square are particularly evident after a great deal of rainfall. There is no beautiful sight with all the gravel that flows down the Castle Hill, closes the drain on other properties and lies in the neighbouring streets. I am pleased that a joint committee joins the government's proposal to upgrade the Castle Square. A restored castle site for the 200th anniversary of the Constitution in 2014 will be a fine gift to the nation. This is one of the finest parade places in the country. The purpose of the project is to give the site a worthy mark and let it stand out as an expression of our national cultural heritage. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that the government has worked on the project under too much time pressure. It is true that the government has wanted to finish the refurbishment until 17 May next year. The 200th anniversary of the Constitution is a very important event in Norwegian history and for the development of our democracy over the last 200 years. For the nation and its population, the Castle Square is therefore of great importance and has a strong symbolic value on the national day. It would seem bad if the Castle Square on 17 May next year was a partial construction site, or that it is located there today with pits and rungs to trouble for traffic and for eyes looking. To the members of the Committee of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, I can assure you that there have been thorough assessments before the decision was made on how the place should be designed. Although the castle system is not formally peaced, the Riksantikvaret has decided that it should be treated as if it were peaced. This means that the main shape of the Castle is to be maintained unchanged. As I said, it is through close cooperation between Statsbyggen, the court and the Riksantikvarn that it is decided to place a fixed top deck with downgraded gravel. The color and the grain size of the gravel is such that the visual impression of the place is not very different from today. Thus, the Castle Square's historical expression is maintained, and I think this top deck will be an operational, functional and aesthetical solution for the Castle Square. It is not impossible that there could have been operational advantages with broking, as referred to by the Committee's members from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. But this has not been the topic of this process for historical and antique reasons. The municipality of Oslo is responsible for the lower part of the square. A very good cooperation has been started with the municipality about the project, so we can finish the entire project by 17 May 2014. As the rapporteur said, the cost framework for the project is 70 million. SEK, divided by 40 million. SEK in 2013 and 30 million. kr in 2014. It is true that the Committee has taken note of this chapter. 1581, heading 30, is proposed to increase to 75.44 million. kr, and not – as it says in the case of an incurrency – 74,44 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1599	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1613	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1622	Today we shall consider Document 8:11 and Document 8:15 on motor travel in the field. It is an important matter that is being dealt with today. This is especially an important matter for District Norway. I will initially not hide the fact that there have been many discussions and rounds between the government parties, but I will claim that as this case exists today, we have nothing to be ashamed of. I think we've come a long way. Motor travel in the field is a matter we have discussed in this room many times. A lot of people have been involved in that debate. It's a matter that means a lot to many, a matter that requires difficult balances between different considerations. In particular, there are balances between the considerations of classical outdoor life and environmental protection and how to combine it with increased scooter driving. That's a little bit of a challenge. If we go back in time, we can ask the question: why did the bourgeois parties not solve this matter in 2001 and 2005 when they were so concerned about it? We might be able to come back today to some statements from the then State Council Børge Brende in connection with this matter. During this ageing period, we have considered several proposals for changes to the Motor Travel Act. The debate concerns two proposals. Both proposals deal with snowmobile or motor travel in outland with some different devices. The proposals are essentially the same. Notwithstanding the examination of Documents 8:11 and Document 8:15, the Government has worked on amendments to the Motor Travel Code in the field. Nor is it a secret that the government has worked a long time to find a solution in this matter. I am very pleased that we have come up with a solution that can protect both nature protection and the use of scooters in nature. We've gone a step forward. The government has announced that it will introduce changes to the rules for the use of motor travel in the field. The Government opens the possibility for 40 municipalities to test or establish loops for recreational snowmobile driving for a limited period from 2014 to 2018. The municipalities that already have attempts at such loops are part of the 40. A certain opening for the provision of tourist services will also be extended. Municipalities bordering Finland and Sweden shall be able to establish supply loops for the loop network there. In some municipalities in Troms and Finnmark, where there is already a law on recreational driving, it will be easier to connect the loop network across municipal boundaries and increase the ability to drive from travel life facilities to the loop network. There will be restrictions and bans on laying loops in some areas, such as protection areas, wild areas, etc. We have had some experimental municipalities that are very happy with what has been achieved so far, including in the context of economic development. I can draw the attention of both the municipality of Hattfjelldal in the Nordic region and the municipality of Vinje in Telemark. I believe that this is a balanced solution that takes more into account. For the Workers' Party and the Government, it has been important to find a good solution in this case that takes care of the desire of many to make it easier to facilitate snowmobile driving in the municipalities and the consideration of classical outdoor life, as I said instead. This proposal will facilitate the use of the Planning and Building Act to regulate scooter loops by several municipalities and will allow for the opening of activities based on scooter safaris authorised in the districts. It will be easier and easier to cooperate with our neighbouring countries in the tourism industry. I am pleased with the solution that the government has reached in this matter. Motor travel is an important matter for many. I was particularly pleased on March 15, when I turned up the local views of Helgeland Arbeiderblad and Rana Blad, and in the leadership position it said the following: «Good scooter solution», and he writes more in the manager as I would quote: «The honour of the compromise is the SV's Environment Minister to have. It is a good and constructive political craft. There are many who have participated." I agree with this editorial. I think it was very good, and we can be proud of that. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1652	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1655	So we're once again in the process of debating motor travel in the field, but this time in a monetary year. After nearly eight years of massive pressure in this matter, it is time for trust to win. If the proposals of the Progress Party are multiplied, it will be easier for farmers and businessmen to facilitate a travel life offer that includes scooter driving in a resilient and environmentally friendly manner. It will also make it easier to get useful and nutritious, and it will be possible to run recreation and facilitate loops in areas where these loops don't bother anyone. This is also important for people with reduced mobility and the elderly, who through our proposal will have the opportunity to travel in nature to a greater extent than today. It is now high time that the good experience of the eight experimental municipalities, which have been in progress since 2000, laid the foundation for the rest of the country. The evaluation of the eight experimental municipalities carried out by NINA in 2005 shows that the municipalities have managed this very well. The negative consequences identified were so small that the test was continued and could be effectively eliminated by local adjustments. The evaluation also shows that one in the experimental communities has had a more holistic motorcycling policy through the planning processes and democratic management by involving all parties in the process. Nevertheless, a claim is made that our proposal is a fresco that would threaten nature and outdoor experiences if it gets multiples. Let me therefore be very clear: no one is calling for a freeway, absolutely none – not the Progress Party, not the Right and not the Christian People's Party. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party propose today to let the municipalities govern this themselves – a very good and democratic solution on which the Central Party has the possibility to be present instead of supporting its government's far worse proposal for the district councils. It's strange that part of the government still thinks that one should sit in Oslo and decide where and when one should be able to run scooters out in the districts. Last week, the Center Party had a snowmobile action outside of Stortinget. There have been high expectations in many local environments, and not least the statements of individual representatives of the government and, in particular, the representative Lange Nordahl have done so. If it turns out once again that the Center Party says one thing, but does something else, then the action ahead of the Storting will appear as gross populism in front of Easter. The centre party will lose all credibility if they vote down our proposal today. One cannot stand with a large scooter in front of the Stortinget, the voters promise liberalisation and then vote down the proposal two weeks later. Very many saw their action at the Zenterpartie as a guarantee of support for the proposal on municipal governance. With our proposal, the municipalities will decide which one will allow by scooter running. There is no reason for this to be regulated by non-municipal authorities, and the Progress Party fully trusts that municipal politicians will be able to assess this in an appropriate way. They brought out newspapers and leaders. In the United Nations, the conclusion is clear when it comes to the proposal mentioned by the government. Enter the following text: «The compromise is weak and far from principle. It would be right to leave the control of shooting to the municipalities." That's the conclusion from there. And this is a national newspaper. There are many paradoxes in the proposal for the red-green. That means, among other things. that it would be possible to open up loops in Valdres, but not in one of the country's largest travel-life regions, Hallingdal. The example shows that both municipalities should have local decision-making power, as the Progress Party has been working for many years. In particular, the centre party should have a pale taste in the mouth over such indiscriminate discrimination. That is why the attempt to bring local democracy into a panic. It is not clear from the proposal that has been put forward, rather on the contrary. This proposal will result in further discrimination between municipalities, where 40 out of 428 municipalities will have different framework conditions and other legislation. Not least, it is paradoxical that the decision should not be adopted at this time, but should be taken again. So after almost 13 years of experimentation, a new proposal is to be heard. How long should you keep on playing this game? One thing that has managed to do with the government's proposal is to wage a full war between the municipalities on the right to participate in this new experiment. And the events will be rough. Municipalities bordering Sweden and Finland can establish loops leading to the loop network in the neighbouring country. In other words, you would like to speak in the neighboring countries of this foreign language, which is undesirable in your home country. What kind of double morality is this? We don't want wear on our nature, but our neighbours aren't very careful about it. What kind of principal hold is this for motor travel in nature? When the Customs Authority to the seventh and last shoots down the proposal when all cross-border crossings are about to take place on a customs post, the comics of the proposal are complete. I would like to address the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1688	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1691	The motor traffic in the outfield has been a repetition of the Storting in several respects in recent years. The new thing is that the government launched a new pilot project with 32 new municipalities on the day after the committee was set up. This is pure training of a matter that should have been handled a long time ago, and a good example of the government party wanting to put a lid on the internal struggle of the government. Here camels go down both hair and hair. Right means that the government is now adding up, leading to many years of even greater differential treatment of the municipalities in this country. Some municipalities are granted local access rights, others are not. It's bad political craftsmanship from the government's side. Right has so much confidence in local populace that we think they'll be better able to decide this kind of thing than state bureaucrats in the department and in the directorate, and we're happy that there are now multiples for this in the committee. It is important to note that the majority of the Committee emphasises that the peace and tranquillity and opportunities to enjoy nature remain central to the management of the Norwegian Mountain Home. It is important to stress that increasing local self-government by motorcycling in outfields should not imply a release for running with snowmobiles in Norwegian nature. Only within defined areas and within strict national guidelines must this be done. Increased municipal self-government has led municipalities to assume their responsibilities to ensure that important natural and outdoor interests are safeguarded. Already in the period 2000–05, a pilot project with increased local self-government was carried out in eight selected municipalities. The municipalities involved in the project have had permission to establish both tourist loops and recreational loops. All municipalities share the view that only marginal parts of their area have been regulated with snowmobile traffic capability, subject to the test project and local planning legislation. On behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research has submitted its evaluation reports from the project, but they have never been submitted to the Stortinget. Instead of evaluating these test projects and making the schemes permanent, and thus non-discrimination between municipalities, governments want a new test scheme for many years. It's going backwards into the future. This shows just how little red-green politicians have to rely on local populace and local democracy. The matter of motor travel in the outland should have been brought before the Stortinget with a view to incorporating it into the law several years ago. In response to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘The Ministry of the Environment is now carrying out thorough assessments of possible solutions. The experience of the experimental municipalities forms part of the basis on which we base our assessments. I can't promise anything now about when the issue of recreational driving will be resolved, but we are working on it and will not let it go too long. If the government decides to send a proposal for consultation, it will do so during the current majority period.» I hope that the Council of State will be able to respond to whether the new pilot project should also be heard, and how the 32 new municipalities will be selected for this project. Right is pleased that there are several pluralities in the Committee for a good proposal to give all municipalities responsibility for handling motor traffic in the outfield, and we have registered that several central party politicians on March 6 posed outside the Storting on snowmobiles in support of this presented. On the UN website March 6th, we could read that Central Party politician Irene Lange Nordahl said that they are now tired of SV's training. Patience is now over. The centre party requires municipalities to control motor travel in the outland and have the possibility to set up recreational loops. Similarly, central party politician Heidi Greni states that this is not about more or less motor travel, but about who has to decide and regulate. Right-wing expects the central party politicians to keep their words and votes for the plural proposal, so that the legislative changes can be implemented without delay. Something else would be a failure statement by these central party politicians. The motor racing case in the field is approaching a parody. She has been in charge of the Storting every year for the last six years and could have been determined a long time ago. Unlike the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, Right has confidence in local democracy, so we want the municipalities to make decisions about motor travel in the outlands. I'd like to make a proposal to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1736	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1739	Motor racing – scooter driving – is a matter that engages many. There are people with strong opinions, both for and against in all parties – in SV and certainly also in the Progress Party. There has been a loud call to be allowed to run more scooters, but at the same time the polls show that there is actually a majority in outlying municipalities – including in the test municipalities – who want less snowmobile traffic. It's obvious that strong groups have stood on each side and staggered against each other. Today we are discussing two Document 8 proposals, one where the Progress Party opens up the possibility that snowmobile traffic can be freely planned under the Planning and Building Act. The right-hand proposal is to amend the Motor Traffic Act, which today rejects snowmobile services that are not useful – again with the same result: it is necessary to be able to plan routes for motorised off-road traffic. The Progress Party argues that their proposals do not mean release. Nevertheless, they refuse to enter into a compromise, as the government's proposal is. The government has now been working to find a solution that can be coherent in terms of different considerations in this matter. This concerns the consideration of the possibility of open-air life for the general public without being disturbed by snowmobiles. This also applies to the consideration of those who consider that there are unreasonable strict rules for the use of snowmobiles, which will make it easier to use. Not least those who want local food development based on snowmobiles. This concerns protection areas, animal and plant life, and not least wild rain. We could also add the public health perspective. At the same time, others point out that the snowmobile actually allows more people to get into the field. As I understand it, this is obviously a matter that is suitable for a compromise. A proposal to be consulted has now been launched, which provides for a cautious opening for several municipalities to try out the regulation of snowmobile loops according to the Planning and Building Act. In addition, it opens up the possibility for more tourist traffic to be covered by the definition of ‘local business’ — in my opinion, a proper principle. Just on questions from some of the border municipalities, it is open to the possibility of creating loops into the Swedish loop network – not to drive tourists across to Sweden, but precisely to be able to make a tourist offer in Norway, on the basis of questions from the border municipalities. This is a compromise that allows us to gain more experience, which meets the municipalities that want to get more hands on snowmobile policy locally, but which at the same time ensures what the Norwegian Tourist Association is standing outside here and asking for, namely that we do not get our last Easter with the opportunity for quiet nature experiences in the woods and in the mountains. In some, the restrictions on snowmobile travel are produced as the attack of the large community on the edges. I have pointed out that there are different opinions, both in the city and built about this. I believe that this is just as much about urban people not being able to colonize the edges of their snowmobiles. I think the government has found a balanced solution, and the sails of the Right and the Advance Party are now trying to whip up the mood, we see that there has been no wave of protests. Some people think we're too liberal, others think we're still too strict. But when the reactions come from both flocks, which say it could be worse, I think we have found a good compromise, which all the red-green parts can stand behind, and which once again shows that we – the red-green parts – are able to agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1754	Today, the Central Party will vote against the Right and the Advance Party's proposal on motor travel in the outland. Instead, the centre party is in favour of the government's proposal for new rules on motor travel in the outland. The centre party is pleased that we have had an impact here on important grips. The government's proposal takes care of many concerns and many of the things that have been asked when changes to the motor traffic legislation have been discussed. For municipalities bordering Sweden and Finland, changes are particularly important. They can now establish loops that lead to loop networks in neighbouring countries. Then we get rid of the obstacle that makes people have had to put the scooter on the car trailer and drive it across the border from the home municipality. This is also good news for the tourism industry. The government's proposal provides for increased access to business in all Norwegian municipalities that so wish. This stands in clear contrast to what Right himself said when they were in government. From the pulpit of Stortinget, Børge Burnde said: ‘Engine-based travel should not normally be part of an environment-based travel life.’ Unlike the Right, the government wants snowmobilesafari to be part of the exit industry. The municipalities are given the opportunity to establish loops under the Law on Planning and Building. Municipal self-government is particularly important for the Central Party. From having a test scheme covering only eight municipalities, 40 municipalities are now given the opportunity to set up recreational loops. The evaluation of the pilot project with the eight municipalities shows both positive and less positive experiences. The testing scheme showed that the extent of unlawful driving was reduced. There was no strong increase in scooter driving as some fear. Protected areas were well protected. There are good experiences from securing wildlife biotopes. At the same time, we see, for example, that the local authorities' maps for vulnerable areas varied. Some municipalities had good maps, others didn't. Not all of the experiences were positive. For this reason, the Centre Party is in favour of an extended regime whereby 40 municipalities from the district policy scope are given the possibility of setting up recreational loops. The experience gained from the pilot project in the eight municipalities has been included in the new scheme. The findings of the evaluation are part of the basis for the proposal being consulted. The open-air values, wildlife and protective measures shall continue to be taken into account. Strong natural considerations shall be taken into account. I see with interest that Erna Solberg, when the Right was in government in 2002, stated that the government was generally skeptical about liberalising the motor travel regime. However, this government has come up with a balanced solution that takes care of important environmental and natural interests and the desire to use snowmobiles for both nutritional and leisure purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1768	The annual debate on motor travel in outland has become a tradition in Stortinget under the red-green government. Decision-reduction and inability to follow up own promises have created an unsustainable situation. The Soria Moria II statement states that the government will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the outland. They didn't. Since the completion of the pilot project in 2000-2005, there has been considerable discrimination between municipalities. Pending final clarification, the test municipalities have been granted extended access to municipal self-government over outdoor motor travel. The time is ripe to conclude in the case. The Christian People's Party has concluded, and we have landed in a wise position that takes care of all essential interests. Before I move on to our own proposal, I would like to comment on the new government proposal. Last Friday there was a press release from the Ministry of the Environment on new rules for motor travel in the field. The press release is in four sections and there is no information other than this. I quote from the press release: ‘The final framework of the scheme has not been clarified and the Ministry of the Environment will come back with more details’. I have to say that it is quite special to have a debate and discuss a proposal that nobody – at least not the opposition – knows about, but only has a press release. However, based on what I have been able to understand about the press release, there are 32 new municipalities that are given the same opportunity as the eight test municipalities have had since 2000, to establish more loops for pleasure driving with snowmobiles for a limited period from 2014 to 2018. The municipalities wishing to participate must apply to the department. Is this a new testing scheme? They don't say anything about that. A certain opening for the driving of tourists — but no details — will widen the scope for business. Finally, municipalities bordering Finland and Sweden should be able to establish supply loops for the loop network there. I tickle the Swedes and Finns are very satisfied with that – the Nordics who are starving on scooter rides are to be led across the border to Sweden and Finland to get a little puffed out there. Then the following questions arise: Is there less noise, nuisance and damage related to scooter driving in Sweden and Finland than in Norway? Or is the government just trying to take advantage of neighboring countries' free-thinking attitude to motor travel? The government's proposal seems very poorly prepared, little in principle, and it bears the mark of panic in front of a campaign. It is not a compromise that many claim, but it is discrimination. I expected that after eight years of working with the law on motorcycling in the government, it would end up in a code with a little more substance. So to the proposals of the Christian People's Party. It is important to clarify that it is the proposals of the Christian People's Party promoted by the majority of the Committee. The Committee is clear that natural considerations should also be taken into account. We have concluded that all Norwegian municipalities should have the same opportunity as the eight test municipalities have had since 2000, to increase local self-government over motor travel in the country. Motor travel shall only take place within defined areas and within strict national guidelines. Increased municipal autonomy presupposes that municipalities assume their responsibility for safeguarding important natural and outdoor interests. Over the period 2000–2005, a pilot project with expanded local autonomy was carried out in eight selected municipalities. The municipalities that have been involved in the project have been allowed to establish both tourist loops and recreational loops. The experiment has been ex-post evaluated by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research on behalf of the Ministry of Environment. The evaluation shows that all six intermediate targets for better motor traffic were fully or partially met in the experimental municipalities. In fact, the population of municipalities without snowmobile loops was more plagued by noise than the population of municipalities participating in the test scheme. I would like to remind you that an important overall objective of the pilot scheme was that the purpose of the Motor Traffic Act should be better achieved than today. The objective paragraph is based on three main elements: overall societal vision, protection of the natural environment and the promotion of well-being. The Planning and Building Act allowed the creation of their own loops for recreational purposes – which was done in some municipalities, in others not. I believe that the evaluation just shows that the municipalities are able to make these balances in a good way, and that it is fully possible to maintain a restrictive national motor vehicle policy, even though an open-ended local self-government and open to local variations. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to open up increased local self-government for outdoor motorcycling, with the same purpose and limitations as were applicable to the pilot scheme. Those who wear the shoe know best where it presses. The knowledge is equally distributed throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1796	It has been said today that the attempt at local snowmobile management is positive. This must be seen as achieving the objectives. It wasn't like that. The first objective of the experiment was to get less motor travel and illegal driving in the field. It was not like that either. There was more traffic and noise and driving into and out of the loop network. As the Left sees it, the goal was thus not achieved. If you think that more motor travel in the outfield is positive, you should say it outright. In Vinje and Stor-Elvdal there were only resident members of the scooter clubs who got access to the loops. The experiment thus gave no experience of what it means to provide open recreational loops in urban areas in South Norway, nor of laying out recreational loops covering several municipalities. Questions can be asked about whether the possibility of discriminating against residents in the future will remain in an international law. The test showed that the running range increased due to new running purposes. In this way, it can be assumed that opening up to recreational driving throughout the municipality of Norway will lead to significantly more driving out of the country than is the case today. It is said that driving on snow and ice does not cause permanent damage to nature in addition to the noise. But then you don't take the damage to vegetation and animal life. No engine is without exhaust gas, noise and greenhouse gases. What about the negative health consequences of further motorising the outdoors of an increasingly inactive population? And – not least: tranquillity is a quality for Norwegian nature and physically active outdoors. A large majority in Norway, in fact 67 p.m., will retain this – as the SV representative also said. It shows annual surveys. The left will not accept the proposals of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1805	The question of fun in the field is a theme that engages many, and there is no secret that there have been different views both between the game and the game on how to solve that question. In my reply to the Stortinget in November 2012, I wrote that I was watching ‘possibilities to give municipalities greater authority to decide whether to allow the establishment of snowmobile loops for recreational purposes’. I also wrote: ‘We need to be sure that any increased local authority in the motor travel field can be implemented without risking significant impacts on outdoor life and natural diversity.’ I mean, we're not there that it's defensive to permanently open snowmobile loops to the general public all over the country, as the proposers want. To that end, we know too little about the consequences for natural disasters, outdoors and people's health. However, the government says that there is a strong desire in some municipalities to be able to control snowmobile use by themselves. The government also says that snowmobile tourism can be an important source of income in some places. I have also seen myself in the work on the matter quite thoroughly into it, among other things. had a meeting with three to four of the experimental communities that we have had for some years. The government is therefore proposing changes that will provide some more local motor travel management in the field, and that will provide us with valuable knowledge that we can use in the later assessment of these questions. 40 municipalities should be able to establish a loop for pleasure with snowmobiles for a limited period of five years – from 2014 to 2018. The seven municipalities that already have experiments with these loops are part of the 40. There will be an application scheme to host among the 40 municipalities to be included in the scheme. Clear conditions and frameworks for the establishment of such pathways shall apply in the municipalities. Among other things, it is forbidden to lay loops in some areas, such as: the protection area, the wild cleaning area or the essential open-air area. These runs shall be established by spatial planning according to the rules of the Planning and Building Law. We also propose other changes: increasing the possibility of running food through a certain opening for running tourists in the loop, as part of the outing industry. Municipalities bordering Finland and Sweden will be able to establish supply loops for the loop network there. In municipalities in Troms and Finnmark, where pleasure runs in established loops are already allowed, it will be easier to connect loops across local boundaries and increase the possibility of running from travel life facilities to the loop network. I intend to send the suggestions shortly after Easter. The details of the proposals will then be returned to the department in connection with the hearing letter. We also need a thorough evaluation of how the scheme works in the 40 municipalities. This will include, inter alia: provide us with comprehensive information on the impact on natural and open-air life creation of such pathways. On the basis of this, I also believe it is right to vote against the proposals for representatives that open up both snowmobile running and bar-field running in general, and that we have found a good and balanced solution that will be presented later in more detail in the hearing letter. I think we have found a solution where we take care of both nature and outdoor life, while at the same time increasing the possibility of pleasure running with snowmobiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1842	It is claimed that the government has presented a comprehensive proposal as an alternative to today's representative proposal. The question is: Is there a gathering for whom – 40 lucky or 428 unfortunate? The so-called 'collective' proposal also contains a proposal on access routes to neighbouring countries. At the same time, we record that the customs office says that there are no borders here without crossing through a customs station. How many of these municipalities, bordering these neighbouring countries, have a customs post and, in other words, can realize this opening?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1849	Now, in my article, I presented the main features of what we're going to send on a listener, and I've also presented that to the public before. Shortly after Easter, we will send out a hearing letter that goes through the framework we propose in more detail. And there we're going to talk about how we're going to put it into life. And then there's going to be a listening round where opposites, questions and ambiguities can travel, which is the point of a listening round. After that, we'll come back with a final presentation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1856	It's interesting to say that the Council of State is talking about what they're thinking about sending on a hearing, and that politicians from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV are actually already joining in on what the Council of State is thinking about sending on a hearing. It's kind of exciting. There has been a lot of talk about the evaluations from the 2000–05 pilot project. It was a wise man who once said that paper that stays long in a department is yellowing. Now, the evaluation reports from the pilot projects developed for the eight municipalities have been curating yellowing for many years. I could think of hearing a little bit about how the Council of State assesses the experience of these eight municipalities? Why is there a need for new evaluations and pilot projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1863	I have read the NINA report that added up this attempt, and as I mentioned in my post, I have also met representatives from about half of the municipalities that have participated in the experiment. I feel that I know quite well about it. That experiment has some clearly positive summaries, but we also see some significant challenges related to the experiment, which I actually think has been highlighted by several articles here. Perhaps the most important thing they tried was that one too little follow-up of developments gathered together – that one had a basis for comparison before and during the trials and a broader reference picture of all municipalities. What we are now implementing changes will provide us with a much better basis for taking a position gathering sets if we are good at following up with follow-up research and actually gaining new knowledge through it. In addition, we are going to meet something that quite a number of municipalities in Norway are busy in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1872	I think we all share the view that one has to balance considerations. The Council of State believes that the government has reached a reasonable conclusion, and we, who have not yet fully seen the conclusion, are somewhat uncertain as to whether it captures the principle that it should be possible for all municipalities to enter into such a system after such a long period of time. What I think is interesting, and to which I would like to ask the Council of State to respond, is: what about nature in Sweden and Finland, which means that there is obviously not as much wear there, since he wants to move traffic from Norway to Sweden and Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1879	There is an established loophole network in those countries. It's possible that the Christian People's Party might be indisputable at that particular point, and not want to establish this, but we think it might be good grounds for establishing access to the loop network established in the two countries. Since the Christian People's Party now clearly believes that there is a principle at stake here, namely that the municipalities should decide for themselves, I must remember that the Christian People's Party ruled Norway – mainly – in the eight years before 2005 and had the opportunity to follow that principle – if that is the case. One then has to ask: Did another principle at that time, or was it simply that one was not so interested in getting an impact on his view? I may have thought that one would rather have the approach to this, which I believe many would like to have, that there is actually a really conflicting point of view that needs to be balanced. It's not a question of one principle up to the other, but of finding balanced, good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1888	I'd like to answer that. For the Christian People's Party, it is not a principle that it should be so, but a principle is contradictory, namely local self-determination against nature. But what I see as challenging, and I think the Council of State also understands is my point, is that it now opens up to 40 municipalities. It might have been interesting to see which municipalities are not allowed. It could be 100 – not all of the municipalities in the country for which this is going to be real. That's why I think it's special that you now increase the number to 40 instead of just saying that now we're trying this out in all the municipalities. What I think is special is that it's been so long. What was the point of the Christian People's Party was that the trial system from 2001 to 2005 should be evaluated. The government hasn't done that in the last eight years. Had it been done, and had received a thorough evaluation and made a case on it, I think one could go a step further already now – as the Christian People's Party proposes today – with both local anchoring and strict national nature and outdoors considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1895	Tried at the time an evaluation was performed. I have read the report myself. However, it was a major weakness when the experiment was established and implemented that one did not establish a systematic acquisition of knowledge such that one, for example, be able to better measure the situation before and below. We need to make sure that we do this better with this system. In that case, when you are going to try something out, it will try out some places before it enters all places. I would like to stress that in addition to a scheme for 40 municipalities, there are some other elements. Some of what I think many people would like to be interested in is opening up to the field industry – with food running in the loop. If we are able to create the tight frames around this – which provide open air and nature – we will be able to retain the values that lie in the fact that we can enjoy our mountain home without a lot of noise, while at the same time opening up something more motor racing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1903	The Council of State said that the test will last from 2014 to 2018. It is an accommodating situation when a case of allowing snowmobiles to drive is going to take 18 years. I mean, is it guaranteed – if this government is in place – that you get a code made? Or are we going to go on an endless journey again to get new information? Is 2018 the final goal to get into port and see if the municipalities can take over these applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1908	I understand that the representative is somewhat pessimistic on the progress party's behalf when he assumes that we are also in charge in 2018 – after the roll-out election in 2017. I think I'd like to say that we have now presented an alternative that we think is balanced. We want to send it on the phone, carry it out and follow it up. We mean this collecting a good solution. I think it would also be important to gain knowledge about motor travel. I think I'll do future debates on the question of more knowledge-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1915	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1920	I find that the scheme that is now available from the government is the biggest change that has ever occurred in this case. I have noticed that the Right has gone very high on the track, both through the present proposals and in relation to the arrangement that the government has now presented. When the Minister of Environmental Protection of the Right of Bondevik II, there was a lot of work to establish a leopard – Arctic Trail – from the Polar Zoo Zoo in Bardu municipality in Troms and across to Sweden, a distance of just two miles. This was in view of being able to transport winter tourists between our two countries. On the Swedish side, such a path goes to the border with Norway. This was not given any opening for from the then Environment Minister Børge Brende. He was not interested in getting this realized. With the arrangement that the government has now submitted, this exciting project will be realized. The working party has always been concerned with finding solutions that can protect the environment and nature, while at the same time driving the engine in controlled forms. I think the eight test communities have proved this in a good way. When, in 2002, the Workers' Party set out with the then Environment Minister Burnde to get better arrangements, he said that the Workers' Party would ‘liberalise too full mosquitoes’. He also asked the question: «Is it so that the Workers' Party wants roaring scooters around in the spring?» I record that both before 2001 and after 2005 the right has demanded quick solutions on this matter, but in government their pendulum then struck the opposite direction. What's the reason for this? Could it be that they had to take any other consideration than they had to when they were in opposition? This must well be like swallowing camels both with hair and against hair at the same time. Here you can also take Christian People's Party in the same sling. Why didn't they do anything when they were in government and had the power to do it? I do not hide that the government parties have had many rounds on this matter, and I am glad that we have made such a long step forward – longer than any other government has ever done with this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1940	Several years after consultation on changes in outland motor travel, the government is now proposing an embellishment of what many have seen as both a bit stiff and restrictive. What is being presented today is good, and has also been well received in my home country. After the government presented its amendment, the debate has become typical of Norwegian political everyday life. Hunting in time, eight years in government without any action, is the opposition's message. Not surprisingly, but I think that if we're honest with ourselves, there's a lot of a party that should read the minutes from previous motor racing debates in this house. The representative Arnesen, who has 16 years of experience in participating in these debates, had not only a good post instead, but he also remembered very well who said what in previous debates. To meet yourself in the door is not always as pleasant, this with a special greeting to some of the opposition party representatives here in the hall today. Let's do that. I choose to look a little further forward and have some thoughts about what is proposed, but also about something that can be done better. Firstly, I would like to say that I am very pleased that, on behalf of the government, the Council of State is now signaling that it will be easier to adjust the loop net. Several have talked about loop networks between our neighbouring countries, but it is easier to adjust the loop network between municipalities, which is very well received. Today's practice that one kilometer of a new course leads to the corresponding cut in another cycle will be history. We should also change today's practice when it comes to driving on ice water. If you run 301 metres from the water leopard to hit the clay or fish, you risk fines in the millennia class. The fact that you drive a boat with a suspension motor completely free of charge on the same water in the summer is okay. This practice needs to be changed, and I interpret the message from the Council of State there that today's enforcement of driving on ice water will belong to yesterday. Something else will surprise me. The travel industry in the north has already called for changes that are now being proposed. Today, rigid rules are in stark contrast to the efforts that we politicians have wanted to make in winter tourism, and for far too long, experience tourism has been applauded, while tourist operators have had unforeseeable exemptions to deal with. When the government also opens up cooperation across the border, I think there might be a win-win situation for many actors on both sides of the Norwegian-Finnish border, especially in the north. In my home town of Alta we also have a unique chance to take advantage of increased interest in winter cruises, among others. due to northern lys tourism. The same will apply here, and that business operators get better conditions, will create even better products for those who want to visit our part of the country. For those who had to doubt, then I say including the Council of State, I am sure that, through increased municipal autonomy also in the case of the Motor Traffic Act, it will be managed by local democracy with the same wisdom as in other areas of administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1959	In municipalities with stable snow conditions, motor traffic takes a great deal of interest in most. It is essentially snowmobile driving. Only the eight test municipalities and Troms and Finnmark counties have permission to run snowmobiles. During the big season we have treated snowmobile driving many times, but it is equally valid in election years. It's a good choice case for most people who have problems being allowed to run on snow. This deliberation clearly shows the position of the individual party, and it is incredible to hear Knut Magnus Olsen from the Center Party, who boasts of what is on the table, when he knows that less than a month ago, a snowmobile – the finest I have seen – was on the outside here with Irene Lange Nordahl and Sandra Borch, because here you really should hit the big bang. But nothing happens. Then you've actually come into the situation that now the government's proposal is very good. The sample municipalities have been in swing for 12–13 years now; nothing has been done. Now, as the Council of State says, more information, more information. It is not difficult to understand that a test drilling case in the Lofoten/Westerålen takes a long time when you are going to spend such an infinite amount of time on a simple matter as allowing local politicians to decide whether to run snowmobiles on snow. It's banal. The government's attitude in this matter is a gruesome example of how government prevents municipal autonomy. All municipalities are required to have a building department. The most complex construction plans can be submitted, and the municipalities need to obtain information so that they can process permits. On the other hand, the same local politicians cannot assess whether snowmobiles should be allowed to run on snow. There is no precedent when comparing the two issues – on the one hand: very difficult and complicated issues, on the other hand: handling snowmobiles must be easy. It must be particularly difficult for the Central Party to go out into the districts and announce the message that we will now wait four to five more years, to see if this can be done, but you will have to have a probationary period. You have to have 40 municipalities. The remaining 388 municipalities are not allowed anything during this period. So for the Central Party to pursue politics on this matter is difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1972	In a dedicated and perhaps advocating debate on motor travel in the field – as I have also recorded in the media – the shades often disappear. However, when discussing the question of opening up more motorised outland traffic, it is important that a person approach that issue with great respect for nature, the outdoors and the concerns that one needs to take. Running snowmobiles can be very fun and an experience. At the same time, I actually believe there is a large number of Norwegian people who want to enjoy nature and outdoor life with the tranquillity and tranquillity that nature can give us. We will also take care of the flora and fauna. That is why I record that there is no one, at least not many, who is in charge of a freeway of snowmobile running in the field – that is not the issue. The question is how restrictive we should be in regulation, to what extent we should govern through laws and regulations centrally, or to what extent one can entrust this to local administration. Today, we have a fairly good law on motor travel, which actually gives the municipalities great authority to open up for utility, and there is a lot of scooter running – in the context of the ‘new running’ process – around the whole country. I have the impression that a person is capable of handling in a very good way. It's also so that our country is very different when it's related to population density and access to land and nature, and so it's very good that it sketches into compromise or solution that the government has now drawn up, just opening up a differentiation. I think it's important that we once again expand the experimental system for these 40 municipalities and gain new experience, so that we approach an extension of this – as I said at the outset – with regard to nature and natural values. When one opens this, one will reveal how much need is, how many municipalities will search for this, and how many of these municipalities actually have the area and the plot that will help to do this. It has also been suggested that one can expand the ability to run a business within travel and tourism – I think that is right. A lot of edge tourism has a very marginal economy, and to the extent that this can help to give him more legs to stand on – strengthen that basis – it is very good. Maybe it's also going to have to go in very run-down forms, and I think it's important that a round in Building Norway doesn't open up for tourists to come in and run snowmobiles, while the village's own people don't have access to it. Here the corrections must be the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e1983	Today could have been a happy day, not only for those who have snowmobiles as a commercial vehicle or a recreational vehicle, but also for the individual municipality’s ability to decide for themselves what benefits it and its inhabitants. Therefore, it is especially worth noting in this case what the Central Party is doing in today's vote. The center party has gone out in the media and otherwise and more or less promised the snowmobile people that it would now be allowed to use the snowmobile, and the snowmobile people have cheered. Today, only a few of Norway’s municipalities – and only those bordering Sweden or Finland – are allowed to do so. The rest of Norway's municipalities are not allowed. We have had a trial project since 2000 where eight district municipalities have been allowed to try and let snowmobile traffic be legal. Of the feedback I've seen, everyone is positive. Why then do you have to try for many years more – even 2018 – to evaluate again? Why not – once and for all – give the individual municipality the opportunity to say yes or no to snowmobiles? For me personally, who lives in a municipality bordering Sweden and thus among the lucky ones, the day is fine, while many municipalities in my county, Hedmark – who sorely need opportunities for new jobs and the possibility to expand the concept of ‘quality of life’ – fall outside, thanks to the Center Party. Hedmark is one of many states where it could use snowmobiles to secure and perhaps also create new jobs within, among other things. tourism and tourism. This is an industry that is struggling, and here the snowmobile could be a working tool that is strongly sought and wanted. That is why I am very surprised at the representative of the Central Party from Hedmark, who accepts the compromise to the government parties. She takes it as a matter of course that the scheme will be permanently extended after 2018. If we have to wait that long, I believe that this part of the government's district policy will make that change unnecessary, as in much of District Hedmark – in 2018–2019 – people will no longer live. Fortunately, I don't think we need to wait that long. If there is a change of government from 1 October 2013, this matter will be one of the many raised, and the municipality's right of self-determination will also apply in the case of snowmobiles driving and permits for this type of motor vehicle. Otherwise, I would like to point out that there are many present in the Chamber, more than it usually uses to be when matters are being debated. It shows the commitment to this matter, and that there are many who are positive about this, but the government parties – with the Center Party – disappoint me unfortunately very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2003	It'll be a bit like the emperor's new clothes, with the court of red-green politicians running around and telling how great and nice the new motor racing in the outfield is going to be. But then the state council says today that we really don't know what it's going to be, because first it's going to go to the hearing, and then we're going to take into account all the recordings that come to the hearing. Then I'm really starting to wonder what it really is the red-green running around and boasting of coming, when the council says we're going to take into account the recordings that are coming. We already know that the customs office has said that it is not appropriate to drive where there is not a customs office that can get you in and out of Norway. This can be exciting. So they say it's very good that the trial project is to be extended from eight municipalities to 40 municipalities. The question then is: which municipalities should be allowed to participate? In my own home country, I know about someone who's allowed to join, and that's Vinje, because it was the last time – it's one of the eight municipalities. It is even an SV rapporteur who controls that municipality, and he says that you should run on, that this is great, that more motor travel must be opened up in the outland, that more municipalities should be allowed to join, and that even municipalities should be allowed to decide for themselves – an SV rapporteur, from the red-green parties. I record that there are very many red-green politicians who are not present here, or who are not going to take the word, but there are many who must have a bitter taste in their mouths when they are today to grasp the decision the Stortinget is going to take. I have a look-up on red-green politicians who have said that they believe that we should allow the municipalities themselves to decide this. All municipalities should have the opportunity to determine this. I believe in local democracy, I believe in local politicians, and I think they know what's best. In fact, if they do a bad job and give too many scooters, they can be thrown into the next municipal elections. So it's all the way up to each of the municipalities. I was called yesterday by a person who had taken his mother with me for over 80 years on a snowmobile trip. When she came out and saw the amazing nature, when she saw the sunset and the moon coming up, her tears appeared in her eyes. But what she was most concerned about was that her son was driving illegally, that what she did was actually illegal – an 80-year-old lady was afraid because what you did was illegal. But it was a wonderful experience to see nature, to be allowed to come out and drive in this way, and she would probably never have had that opportunity if it hadn't been for the son to take her out. That's why I really hope some red-green politicians are thinking and voting for the proposal where you know what you're getting, and not for the proposal where you don't know what you're getting and who's going to get a new hearing. A probationary period of 18 years is probably almost only the one that has had or has been close to having had an equal probationary period. Fortunately, it has now become a permanent arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2014	I have to admit that it is now becoming difficult to know where to start in this case, because the case of motor travel in the outfield has taken ever new turns only in the last few weeks. It started with the Center Party demonstrating outside the Storting on the scooter, and said that now they would support the Right proposal. Then the Committee was to deliver its position, and the Central Party – like the other government parties – was in favour of the Right's proposal. On the same day, a press release – on the same day – said that they had now won the government – arrived at a very unclear press release. So, after further investigation, we see that they've lost. Or at least we believe it, because now the confusion is great. There is talk of compromise – we understand that that is what is behind it – there is talk of proposals, and Bendiks H. Arnesen even spoke of what is ‘existing’ here today. Yes, I think it's almost a parody like this debate is now, where half of the representatives talk in detail about a proposal that they think they know the content of, the council says he has thoughts about what he is going to send out to the hearing, and the rest of the assembly has seen nothing at all. This is not a worthy debate. We're dealing with what we know, not that a promise that one might do something. It is a great wish to decide matters about motor travel in the suburbs around the municipalities. The right has great faith in local democracy, and we believe that this should be decided locally, in thorough processes through the rules and laws applicable to land treatment in the municipalities. It's one of the safest treatments we have. Of course, those who know the conditions best, who know the local conditions, should decide and follow national guidance and guidance that the State controls. That's why they have the possibility of objecting here. It's a safe and good treatment. As Rudihagen said, everyone wants the national leaders to take care of the values we want to take care of. I also have to say that I believe that the whole three-minute installment to Rudihagen could have been mine, because we very much agreed with the assessment here and the balancing. So we're going to add a couple of facts that we're going to use. The SV representative talks about urban people ruining them in the district. There are 70 000 snowmobiles in this country. If we put the dots on a map, it wasn't the cities that were colored. There are 50,000 unlicensed scooters – so if the dots were inserted on a map, the cities were not colored. There's a complete misunderstanding of reality out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2024	The government's proposals will not change much the current situation in Finnmark, because we have an established loophole network. However, it will continue to be such that the County Environmental Protection Department can override local democratic decisions, and local democracy and local government clearly do not want either the Workers' Party, the Centre Party or the SV. Obviously, the government parties have little faith in local competence and public awareness in the municipalities and counties they represent. In practice, the government's proposal means that Lierne and Røyrvik should be able to have the administrative authority and to establish scooter loops, but not the neighbouring municipalities of Grung and Snåsa. Verdal and Meråker should also be able to be empowered to establish scooter loops, but not neighbouring municipalities of Levanger and Stjørdal. It's not April 1st today, but you should actually believe it. In fact, for the paradox of what is being presented here, the government is now introducing three different legal regimes between municipalities within the same jurisdiction. Another point in this case, after many years of deliberation, is that the government's so-called compromise is to be consulted in a great deal of supervision, organisations, associations, municipalities and county councils. So what comes back to the Storting – yes, there is no one in this room who knows today. We are therefore aware that the customs tariff has already slaughtered the whole proposal and claims that the proposal violates Norwegian law. Obviously, the desire to push this whole matter out in time is far greater than the will to want anything. This is the case, and unfortunately it has been for 18 years, of which the Central Party and the Workers' Party are the parties that have been the longest in government. I'm not counting on SV in that block there, because if that party had decided, we would not have had scooters in Norway, and we had not had this debate in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2031	It's with wonder I hear the ovations from some red-green politicians here. So the red-green government has delivered – the red-green government has ever delivered the biggest change within this field. The only thing that has been delivered is a government council that has thought highly. And what kind of government council is it that's been thinking high? Yes, there is a representative from the government party SV, SV in government, who keeps local democracy so high that heidi Sørensen was sent out as State Secretary to run lobby courses for the Ngos, so that you could plan and build the building law and the law of natural diversity so well that you could put holes in the wheels of the municipalities. It's a representative of the activist democracy party SV. SV is the party that, in the context of experimental schemes around municipal secondary schools, could tell us that when the trial period was over, one could not extend it or start a new experiment, because one could not make eternal attempts to create good policy. The state council that's been thinking high is the government council that last week didn't think high enough about the mineral strategy and the permits for Nordic Mining, so you almost got an Ekokrim report when the two state councils went to prison in the West. So it's that party, SV, that without shyness puts democratic processes on the sideline if you can only achieve your own goals. We have not been given anything, we have been given an indication of a consultation proposal that may be coming once. This is a known technique in front of a choice. There should be nothing – be sure of it. So right -- why is this case important to the Right? This is about local democracy, and it's about the spread of power. It is about the possibility of turning around in your community, creating good solutions for the good life of your community. It's that simple. It's not primarily that it's important for the Right to double the number of snowmobiles that are out and running on a Sunday. It is not that the Right has a fair key that says that if there are not as many snowmobiles running in all municipalities in Norway, it is unfair, and then we rule this country wrong. It's not about it at all. It is actually about enabling our local politicians to use the forces and the muscles that local democracy must be to create the good life. Nor do we have only eight municipalities that have tried this. I come from a county where we have 19 municipalities where you have been driving snowmobiles for years. It's going perfectly well, but also where we have this system, we see that from year to year we could have earned local politicians the ability to adjust the loop net, given that conditions change, things change, needs change. It's not worse. Trust local politicians and we are doing well in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2040	I would like to comment on some of the debate. To Frank Bakke-Jensen: Yes, then, SV has a great influence on the government, but here we've also gone a long way to find a compromise that everyone could accept, and I assume that once we've found, sketched, a solution, it's going to come out quickly to the hearing. Then we'll have to shut it down for consultation, too, but, as many have said, the wit is evenly distributed across the country, and that hearing should be a proper hearing. But it's going to come fast, I assume. Harberg points out that most snowmobiles are not in the cities but in the countryside. That's also my point – they should still be. It's actually the Christian People's Party and Rupstad that surprises me the most when he says that the Christian People's Party's proposals take care of everyone's interests. At least the open-air organisations demonstrated outside here did not agree. Then he says we're going to send people "who's hungry on scooter ride" over to Sweden. He talks so much about Sweden that I have to ask: is snowmobile policy in Sweden the ideal for the Christian People's Party? This was an attempt to meet just what Bendiks Arnesen had to say, local demands and wants to connect the loop network to get local value creation to runners in Sweden. The representative, Bredvold, says that eventually there will be no people living in rural areas in Norway. I don't think it's going to go as bad in Norway as it's done in Sweden. So the left says that opening up for recreation throughout the country will lead to more snowmobile rides, and I think that's right. So they do not agree with the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. We have found a compromise, while the possible partners of the Left reject such a compromise and have no understanding that there are different opinions. That's the picture we're drawing, that the red-green things to come to an agreement, on the other hand you're not doing that. The Right Party and the Advance Party claim that those who do not join the scheme are unfortunate, they lose, as if all Norwegian municipalities wanted to join this scheme. We already saw when it was about the first trial scheme, that there were municipalities that said they did not want to join. Those who don't join, says the representative Skumsvoll, gets nothing to do. But in that case it must be after the Progress Party has won with a policy that deprives the municipality of all responsibility for care for the elderly, school, etc. As long as they don't, there are a lot of municipalities that don't want to be involved, which will have enough of the work tasks anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2055	We are discussing concrete proposals today on what the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud characterised as 'the new clothes of the emperor'. Because there's a bunch of questions: are there 40 municipalities that will be allowed? Is it the locals, or is it the guests, or is it both? Some people call it a suggestion, others call it a sketch. The government partners are happy, but with what? Councillor Solhjell says that one thing should be at the bottom: it should be knowledge-based. The question that must then be asked is: how slow should a person be when he has spent 13 years and still does not seem to have had enough experience of this matter? And as it was informed by the representative Bakke-Jensen from Finnmark, all municipalities have gained experience. The question is also: should it now be legal, as many ask, to drive on a forest road when it has laid 10 cm of snow, or should it still be banned, but once the snow has melted, can you use any kind of vehicle? The representative Lars Egeland was here in front, and I feel his argument is in such a way that he is completely dressed naked politically, together with his SV friends, in this matter. They're brake blocks. They present this as a compromise, but it's a compromise that we haven't seen the content of. Nobody knows or has an overview of it, and here's a bunch of questions that haven't been answered. Nevertheless, we see that the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee, the Erling Sande of the Centre Party, says in Trønder-Avisa that he thinks it is directly embarrassing that a person has not already been settled in the favour of the municipalities. He is also supported by Gerd Janne Kristoffersen from the Workers' Party. Yet, despite the presentation we have so far, the Vice-President of the Centre Party and Minister of Agriculture Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum have concluded: ‘This is Norwegian policy at its best’. Believe it or not!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2068	Several of the red-green representatives have today referred to the proposal that they might perhaps come up with. But we only have one proposal for consideration here today. That is the proposal that the Right and Advance Party have promoted together with the Christian People's Party. The red-green government, where the Senter party has been a member for eight years now, has not provided a single comma in the motor racing law to the Stortinget. That's the truth. This is probably the fourth or fifth time I agree to consider the proposal from the Right and the Progress Party. The red-green government has not delivered anything about snowmobiles, and will not do so until they leave on 1 October 2013. That's the truth. It's a change in the law on motor travel absolutely all of the central party's staging representatives have promised us, and there's a significant number of the Workers' Party's staging representatives promised us, once and for all. It has not been delivered by the red-green government, and that is not what we are discussing today. I am pleased when we first get to where we have come – after what is going to be 18 years of trial – that both the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Lars Peder Breck, and the Central Party's responsible state council in the government for the negotiations, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, have said that they are satisfied – they are pleased with a compromise that they will not even show in the Stortinget when we discuss this matter. But that's the Center Party satisfied with. It's a clarification I think the Scooter people in Trøndelag are very happy that the Center Party has given them today. The law of motor travel has always been a law made by the Oslo people and for the Oslo people. With the proposal we have put forward today, someone says that it should be allowed to run scooters. That is not what we are proposing. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are calling for us not to sit in Oslo and decide where and when and who to run scooters, but that we must be able to make that decision in the municipalities where people live. And the pilot project: Here you have to read the evaluation reports found reading the Bible. It is not possible to argue that the pilot project has not been a great success – for the safety of those who run scooters, for the flora, as traffic is channelled out of the most vulnerable areas, for the outdoors, by the fact that there is more open-air life in the municipalities than it was, and a stronger channelling of motor travel was achieved, so that some areas could be kept free of motor traffic. So the red-green politicians say that maybe there's going to be some recreation drive, and who knows what it's going to be like? But what's clear is that it should be based on you renting a scooter. So once again, the city people can get out, hire themselves a scooter and take a ride. But if you want to go for a ride with your friend, according to the red-green government you must hire his scooter, and he must rent your scooter, and you must certainly pay VAT compensation too!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2083	There's been an interesting debate so far, and there's a lot that you're tempted to comment on. But let me remind you what this matter is really about. It is about whether we believe that local politicians around the whole country will be able to take the decision whether to have a scooter rag in their municipality or a loophole. That's what we're going to vote for. We also know that the Planning and Building Act, which Erik Solheim presented some years ago, opens up just to regulate this in the municipalities. Then you only have to make one small change, and it is in Section 3 of the Motor Traffic Act to remove one word, the word ‘this’. That's the majority in this hall not willing to do. You try to use all the other words and expressions and come up with a lot of different explanations and make this a completely different matter than what it's really about. I see beyond the hall, and I have also heard what the Council of State has said: we must take balanced consideration; we must take into account cultural diversity and outdoor life. My question back is: Can the Council of State explain to me why it is that the representatives of the local government in my own county, Nord-Trøndelag, in Røyrvik, Lierne, Snåsa, Verdal and Meråker are competent enough to take the balanced considerations, because there are municipalities located at the Swedish border, while the municipal politicians in Namskogan, Grong, Höjlanden, Steinkjer, Levanger and Stjørdal are not competent enough to take the same assessment of the balanced considerations of outdoor life and cultural diversity? That's what the compromise we haven't seen here today is really going on. Or what it's all about, we don't know, because the council doesn't know that either. He has said clearly that how this is going to be done is not quite clear, but what you are ready to do is to have administrative capacity in the municipalities that are at the Swedish border and to open up 40 new trials. Yes, it means – quite simply – to me a hopeless compromise, if this is promoted in Stortinget. This means that different municipalities are treated to an even greater extent. The Progress Party has confidence in local politicians – trust that they can make decisions even if you want snowmobile trails or not. I trust that they are able to take these balanced considerations, and that a municipality like Namskogan is just as good at taking these considerations as elected members of the Lierne municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2092	I was challenged by the representative of Egeland, who was surprised at the Christian People's Party and our view of the matter, and that we did not agree with the outdoor organisations. However, if you read the recordings of the Document 8 proposals, there is one thing, but I also think that the proposal for a decision in the vote today is an important point B, which just refers to the reasons on which the scheme should be based. We recognise the dilemmas and conflicts. What I have said today is that I think it is very special to stand here and discuss a press release in four sections, which is what has come from the government after eight years. After eight years it should have been possible to get further. What I find challenging is that I see the same dilemmas in terms of nature, outdoors and the possibility of local self-determination, and that it should also be possible to have snowmobile rides within certain limits. I just think that the so-called compromise, which I do not feel as a compromise, but as a discrimination, is challenging, because we – through our proposal – promise that this will apply to all the municipalities, and that will apply within a strict framework. I think that is the solution we should end up with. I have no problem with this going to the hearing. On the contrary – I think it is absolutely necessary in these kinds of cases, when the government chooses to bring this about. I think that's okay. That's not what I'm responding to. I react to the content, which is not even known. As far as Sweden is concerned, I am no longer happy in Sweden. That's not why I spent time in Sweden. I just thought it was special that it was entirely right for the government to send the Northmen over to Sweden to relax there. I still think that's special. One could almost have been tempted to put the question back, if the snowmobile policy in Sweden is the best for SV, since you want to send the snowmobiles over there? Is Sweden a model? Do you want to have the same policy in Norway as in Sweden, because that's what you're trying to give the Nordics? We need to find good solutions to the problems in Norway – not Sweden. It would have been interesting to send the hearing to Sweden and see if they are satisfied that you are allowed to drive in Sweden, but not in Norway. Another point, which I think is a little interesting, is that Irene Lange Nordahl from the Center Party – she was one of those who put on snowmobiles outside the Stortinget on March 6th – 14 days ago wrote on Twitter: ‘Is not satisfied with the Ap and SV that will not follow the Centre Party and the municipalities in the scooter case. I'm voting with the opposition on the 21st. 03. ‘... It is a clear signal from a representative from the Center Party, and I had expected her to have made a post and at least followed up what she wrote on Twitter earlier. Our signal is clear: we want a compromise. We want to take care of both, and we believe that this is done in a good way through the proposal in the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2114	I have some comments and finally three questions to the Council of State, which I hope he will answer. Firstly, to Kåre Simensen, who talked about reading the debates from earlier: Yes, I have been happy to read the debate from last year, and I am going to read it again and compare it with the debate today. I think it might be exciting reading. To Egeland: I can't come to any other conclusion than that we have completely different faith in local democracy. Egeland refers to this as if the Right wants a free slip. I have at least – after this came up – a great deal of understanding for my Right colleague Ånen Werdal in the municipality of Hågebostad, who says he hopes this will come, because they don't want more snowmobile rides. That's the way it is. It's local democracy, and that's what we trust. I notice that others don't trust it. I have to comment – as Ropstad also pointed out – that there is one party that is absent from the debate. I understand it really well, because it can't be easy, but I wish they were here anyway and they were on what they've been up to. Some questions to the Council of State, which I hope we can clarify: First, in the line of line, the Council of State replied that the reason that there was a point to make loops over to Sweden was that there is an established loop-net, and that is okay to use. Then I interpret the council there and want answers to the consequences: Is it so that if we have a loop network set up here in Norway, it is okay to run in it? It would have been nice to get an answer. The second concerns the question of this with the test system, which – as it is outlined, at least – is a fairly large testing scheme and thus shows will for something more. That's how I see it from the Government's response in the replica box. Is that correctly understood? It's good to know. The last point: we have been concerned with local self-government and the need to get schemes that are adapted to local circumstances – whether topography or other things, which make there extra need. But what is now selection criterion no. 1 is about a qualifying person for regional policy instruments. Is it true that this is not now about nature and the needs of individual municipalities, but is it a purely regional policy instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2131	I'm quite happy with traditions, but some traditions I can control myself a little bit. I've been 16 years at Stortinget, and each spring it's a tradition that we debate proposals to liberalize snowmobile rides and delegate this to the municipalities. We do that no matter what government we have. We also did that when the Right was in government. We were in opposition, and we made proposals – together with the Central Party at that time – to liberalise the rules. This happens from being in opposition in this room until you get to the government offices – then you are going to let the municipalities themselves have this right of self-determination. Now the Progress Party has the goal of getting into government – I hope we do – and I have the personal goal of becoming an environmental protection minister and ensuring that this is implemented. I have to say it so strongly, because I dare not send anyone else into the department, in case something happens, so they forget what they did when they were in opposition. That's my ambition. Many people are discussing the press release that came from government offices, and many say that this is what is available today. No, that's not what's available today. What is available today are the two proposals from the Progress Party and the Right, which we are debating. Those proposals want the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Left to vote against. There's nothing else we have up to today's debate. I record in the press release that came from the government that the proposal should be consulted. How many hearings do you need? How many inspections and hearings to be carried out in connection with the proposals for representatives? You've had these for 16 years. Do you need a new hearing and a new investigation for every time there's a new snow coming? That's what's real. You just do this to train the case. You don't want to get this solution. There is a victory for SV in this case. So simple and honest, I think you have to say that. Many people are calling for the Central Party in this debate. I understand that the Central Party is not here during this debate. They don't have a spine for that. That's what's real, and if someone's wondering how to create political disdain, I think the Center Party and some representatives of the Center Party have the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2144	The representative of Korsberg spoke about tradition and ambition. I'm going to stick to the tradition, and it's true that the arguments that have been made today have been heard many times. But the new thing is that we have come further by the government putting on the table an arrangement – and to the representative Harberg I have to say: I said ‘an arrangement’. I have still not received an answer, either from the Right or from the Christian People's Party, on why they didn't do anything with these questions when they were in government. Can we get an answer to this today? I can help them a little: could it be because in the Sem statement it was established that the main principle of ban on motor travel in land was to be maintained? And could it also be that the current party leader in the Right, Erna Solberg, elaborated this by saying that in this it was that the government was skeptical about liberalizing the motorcycle racing regime? If I am not mistaken, the representative Meling was also behind this in the committee at the time. With regard to today's proposals, I know what the Minister for the Environment wrote to the Committee exactly nine years ago. I will allow myself to quote a little from that letter, and I do so with regard to the proposals that are on the table today. At that time, the Council of State wrote: ‘But changes made individually and without being assessed in a wider context could easily lead to new grey zones. Therefore, I do not find it natural to decide on individual proposals. [[...]] That's what this case is about. You say no to individual proposals, but you go on with a scheme that the government has put on the table, which is to be consulted, and which will result in something that is permanent and tangible – both for those who are motorcycling in the field, and for those who want peace and quiet on their trips in the field. I think it serves the government to the credit that they have moved on with a scheme that we have requested for all the years I have been at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2158	I'll try to repeat some of what I said instead. Firstly, I would like to refer to the leader of Rana Blad and Helgeland Arbeiderblad on 15 March, «Good scooter solution». Then I will briefly refer to some of the solutions that the government has landed on. Maybe it'll be more clarifying then. I'm going to do it point-by-point, so maybe some of the representatives should listen very carefully. Access to the project is granted upon application to municipalities within the territorial policy scope. A scheme is being set up for the period 2014–2018 to allow 40 municipalities to test out recreational activities on foot. Municipalities forming part of the scheme may decide to set up loops through land-use planning in accordance with the rules of the Planning and Building Act. The detailed conditions and the planning framework are set out in the Motor Traffic Code. There shall be a ban on loops in specific areas, e.g.: protected areas – and wild areas, as I said earlier. Control measures are carried out in accordance with the same rules as when running after running in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. The eight municipalities where there are attempts at running after runs today are included in the new scheme as 8 out of 40 municipalities. The scheme is evaluated at the end of the period. Increased access to business by opening for recreational purposes is granted as part of the off-road industry in the form of snowmobilesafari after running. Such travel activities shall be subject to authorisation. It is open to municipalities bordering Sweden and Finland to establish loops leading to loop networks in neighbouring countries. An opening is also provided for the following change in access to recreation in Finnland and Nord-Troms: The municipality should be able to link loops in two neighbouring municipalities without having to reduce already existing loops. Travel establishments are granted increased access to driving for customers to and from travel life facilities located outside but close to existing loop networks. That is why we have said that this is a good and balanced solution, and it takes not least more into account. That's why I think it's important that when we talk about this is the arrangement we have, we have to get the opportunity to get back to it. Then I think maybe you could have admitted a little bit from the opposition that we've come a good way. I have to say that when the representative from the Left was up here, I was not particularly reassured if there was to be a possible change of government, and a strong Right- and Advance Party-dominated government should have left on the team. Then I think we will have to go two steps back in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2194	I'm a municipal politician, I live at Ål, I have a cabin in the mountains and I have a brother-in-law, a brother-in-law who has scooter licenses. Every Easter my husband and I get a visit from a user group of disabled people who would never have the opportunity to get into the mountain if my brother-in-law didn't have the scooter license. As far as the territorial policy scope is concerned, Hallingdal will not be in any way able to participate in this current test project. On the other hand, Valdres will be able to get it. It's bloody unfair. When the Senterung judgment, three rapporteurs and eleven rapporteurs from the Central Party stood here outside the Stortinget, it was joyous in the Progress Party. The next day I was so lucky to meet the head of the Senterungdom down in the canteen, and she said that we should do this. But all of a sudden, there were people in the government offices who thought that sordid claws, here we have to do something, and now we have to do something fast. Then came the press release. I am so lucky that as a wholesale commodity representative today I will be allowed to press the button that tells me that I want local self-government – I want people like me, who are local politicians, to be allowed to join in and decide how to have it in our municipality. I'm so lucky I get done today. I feel sorry for the Senterpart people who have to press a button they are absolutely and totally against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2205	It was asked from the pulpit why the government's proposal is so hopeless. Well, the reason why that's really pretty simple. The three parties in government do not agree when it comes to local self-government. That is why we end up with a debate on a compromise proposal that no one knows where it ends. What the government and the Council of State present today – and absolutely no one knows what comes back to the Storting after the consultation round, nor does the Council of State – reminds us primarily of a government that has panic. Not least makes it visible a very large amateurry. After seven years of investigation by this government, the government knows as little about the matter as it did seven years ago. And what could be the reason for that? The reason is simple: you don't want to know, because you don't want local government. The issue of the Storting really is whether we want to have a local administration or not. So here's the Worker's Party, the Center Party and SV crystal clear: It's far better to train the case and push it out in time than to treat anything on the Stortinget. What are they so afraid of? I'm from Finnmark. I use the scooter almost every time I'm home in the winter. What are we doing that is so terrible? Well, we'll wrap the scooter up, ski and the different things the kids need. Let's go. Then we can be from five to fifteen families meeting socially. The kids ski, run, run, run, run, run. Other fish, and you sit there and have it magnificent. But if the fire place isn't laughing, we might have to pull 350 meters outside to get laughed. Then we can all risk being fined, because it's illegal. Is there much to do with freedom and local democracy? Or is it that time is over-mature to get it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2214	It may be a bit of a reminder from the president that we have a long night ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2217	In this case, it only becomes clearer and clearer that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have been completely defeated by a Minister of Environmental Protection from SV. There has been a revealing debate. In particular, the Centre Party and the Working Party are not to be recognized. For the jam, the scooter pipe has got a different song. I am sitting with a county council decision from Troms County from December 2012. All parties, except SV and Red, voted in favour. This means that the Workers' Party and the Centre have also expressed their support for the requirement that municipalities should be given the opportunity to set up a scooter loop for business and recreation driving through processes based on the Planning and Building Act. It can't be said more clearly, and one added: it must happen as soon as possible, we have waited long enough. Here are the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the government offices and in the Stortinget on a clear collision course with their local politicians in Troms. I have also noticed that the government parties and representatives from there are more concerned about looking back. But I honestly believe that Norwegian voters are now looking forward and are interested in what is going to happen after the autumn elections. For almost eight years we have been promised that the government would file a case with a proposal for a new law on motor travel in the field. What we got was a press release with a sketch. Those who had the hope that the assurance of the central party and labour party people that the government would come with a law that made the municipalities masters in their own house must, of course, experience the sketched bill as a real blow to their faces. Norway has enough space. There can be no shortage of space to explain that the government is now making such a restrictive bill. We have enough space to make a loop network for snowmobiles and still be able to take care of wildlife, nature values and at the same time go skiing and enjoy the world's most beautiful nature without being shy of noise from snowmobiles. Saying something else is deaf. As I know our local politicians, I feel very confident that they will manage this balance in this matter as in other matters, where different considerations should be weighed against each other, but where it is to do good things that can meet more needs. This law is of double morality. Scooter traffic will be sent to Sweden and Finland. They talk about developing winter travel life, but most of Norway’s winter municipalities refuse to do anything about it. I just have to say that here the government is mildly said on a collision course with its own people out in the whole country, and you are on a collision course with the ability to develop new nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2234	There is no tradition of new laws being passed in this Chamber when document No. Eight proposals. This applies regardless of who is in government at any time. That should still be the case. I am very concerned about local motor traffic management in the field. I have long wanted municipalities to be able to set up recreational loops for snowmobiles. That is why I am pleased that the government has now announced that there will be a matter for Stortinget that is well on the way to this. Border municipalities will have the opportunity to establish the loops, plus 40 experimental municipalities. In all municipalities in the country, there will be opportunities for business and new jobs related to tourism — scootersafari. This is a long step in the right direction. The two attempts in the eight municipalities have been successful. When the attempt is now continued and greatly expanded, I have no doubt that there will be a permanent arrangement in all municipalities. I have faith in local democracy. I even have such faith in local democracy that I think the municipalities can decide the community merger and the municipal boundaries themselves. There's a couple of parties here in the hall that have a long way to go. As regards the proposal, reference is made to the municipality of Røro. It turns out that Røro's demand for scooterled. In the right-hand notes, ask for the options for scooter joints, business opportunities, etc. Either they have acted against better knowledge or they have been very bad at choosing an example. The municipality of Røros is an experimental municipality. The municipality of Røro has the possibility to create scooter loops. They have a local democracy that has said that they do not want it. I hope the right does not mean that you should oblige the municipalities to set it up. I think it should be an opportunity, not a imposition. The municipality of Røro has business. All hotels in Røros advertise with snowmobile safari, so in Røros municipality there won't be much change. But for the other border municipalities in the South-Trundellag, this is a loving change. Røros has not chosen to exploit this potential. That means they've used local democracy to say no. Those who want to say yes will exploit it that way, and so it must be. We can't oblige anyone to follow this. It must be voluntary. Røros is a border municipality and will thus come within that scheme. For all the other municipalities that may wish to do so, it will be possible to apply to become an experimental municipality. I will therefore not support Document No. The 8th proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2253	I decided to wait a long time to speak in this debate, for at least I should hear what the Vice President, no, sorry, representative Øyvind Korsberg, said. We're a little used to empty barrels falling mostly in some discussions. It is true, as everyone has said here, that the Central Party will go against the proposed legislative changes that have taken place in the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party. We have no tradition of passing laws by discussing such proposals in Stortinget. We have focused on making proposals that come from the government according to ordinary legislative processes. That was also stated by the rapporteur, Mr Stroem. I can repeat that: all the border municipalities are part of this arrangement for the border municipalities, which is a permanent arrangement. Otherwise, all the municipalities in the country can apply for an extension of the business cycle — a permit scheme linked to travel life. I don't have to go into it any further. The 40 municipalities that will have a probationary system will have the opportunity to apply for this in the district policy area. This will also mean that many municipalities will have an extended possibility of what I call recreational driving. It has been important for us – local self-government in that context is important to us. So I want to ask, because there are a lot of people here who swing to the big heights in the description of the proposals that exist – and not least about what has been signaled by the government: what is it really the Right Party and the Advance Party talking about when they want to take care of nature and want to run scooters? In their proposals, they have proposed bar area driving. The proposal from the Right for document 8 suggests running bare-line and driving in snow-covered areas. It has never been in the middle of its discussion about snowmobile driving. It's a great expansion and a serious threat if there's to be an opening for it, as I see it. What do these parties mean by local self-government when the representative Solute flour says ‘into strict national guidelines’? Here there are several people who need to clear up a little bit of the concept and the argument in the case. Finally, let me say about Tollvesenet – and I have also heard that the police have expressed themselves, at least in Trondelag: Customs and police have to deal with the laws and regulations that Norway has. I have been skiing many times across the border of Sweden. I have been in Sweden and acted – you know that too – because I have been on a holiday in Sweden for many years. But it has never happened that the Tollvessen has come after me there – and of course I could have something in the bag. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2266	The President will remember the time of speech. This evening will be long enough, even if you keep speaking time. The representative, Lars Egeland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2271	The representative Aspaker uses powerful words when she says that this proposal is based on double standards – and that is opening up for runs to Sweden she believes. So the right-hand side means that it would be better without such an opening, it surprises me. For local governance: it is clear that there is a balance between local and national policies. Many of us are concerned that it will lead to a very strong increase in snowmobile traffic if we allow all the municipalities to control this themselves. I also do not see the benefit of the right to control this by the municipality of Gågebostad, when they do not want such loops. So the representative of Korsberg makes it a personal project to make sure that something happens in this area. Then I would like to say: it may be a personal project for me – and also for the Minister for the Environment, I think – to stress that this is a new policy; this is not a training; there is a proposal for a new policy for consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2280	Many have asked where the Central Party is in this debate. We are here, but we do not necessarily have to be first in the debate. Then I have also registered that there is another group that is a little under-represented in a gender perspective. I think it's 20 pst. women in the hall, but it is far less than that which has spoken. The centre party has promised to liberalise the law on motor travel in the outland. Liberalization will be, if not for all municipalities in the first place, as many of us want. This liberalisation is not about snowmobile driving everywhere. It is about the municipalities themselves being allowed to decide whether to allow recreation by snowmobiles. In Hedmark, where I come from, not all municipalities want to allow snowmobile rides, but some will. After much discussion, we have found a unified solution. That compromise means that we will give 40 municipalities the opportunity to have a test scheme, as many have said here before, but in addition – and not many have said at all – all border municipalities will have the opportunity to build snowmobile runs. Then it's about double standards – if we're going to send snowmobile drivers to Sweden. Of course, they should have a loop in their own municipality that they connect with runners in Sweden. Then I actually expect that there will not be a one-way drive on the border. Then the representative spoke about that it is the one who makes laws and rules, who will decide whether to cross the border or not. It's probably going to have to be something to do with the Tolls. In addition, the tourism industry in Norway — in all municipalities — is also allowed to set up loops for snowmobilesafari if the municipality so permits. It is therefore a good arrangement for which the municipalities themselves will be responsible. But it's true, as it's been said, that's not what we're discussing here today. I want to mention one more thing: It is completely wrong – and it has been said by several of the representatives – that Hallingdal is not in the district agency area. Of course they are, but they're not in Zone 4 or 5. I am surprised that Hallingdal representatives do not know. I look forward to getting this system in place. It will be a good arrangement for District Norway, but it is – quite right – not this arrangement we are discussing here today. That is why I am voting against this draft document. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2301	The representatives of the Senterpartiet and Trundellag, Greni and Breck said that they could not vote in favour of this, because this is a document 8 proposal. But I got a feeling of déjà vu when I heard it, as did I in 2005, in 2006, in 2007, in 2008, in 2009, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012 – and I have also heard it now, in 2013. There are people who are trying to get something, and then there are people who think it's bad and hard to vote for a Document 8, but you don't deliver anything to the Storting, in line with the election vows. So I'm glad the representatives of the Center Party say they're happy. I will ensure that this is passed on to the voters in Trøndelag, that the representative, Mr. Greni, is happy about what is coming – that there will be no change in the law on motor travel. Then the representatives Arnesen and Stroem talked about the arrangement that the government has put on the table. Which table is this arrangement on? It is possible that the officers have not done their job, but at least there is no arrangement in my room. If this is the case that we in Stortinget have begun to deal with press releases, there will be a new tradition that I hope the presidency will clean up. What we know is, as I said, recreational driving in the industry. I think that's a funny name. It means, just as it did the first time I had the word, that you can rise up in the mountain and hire scooters from a landowner locally, and then run recreational runs – maybe, we'll see when this comes. But that also means that the scooter people who live in the valleys of Trøndelag and in the rest of the country can't sit on the scooter and drive a trip on the mountain, which the Center Party has promised to open up. The representatives Breck and Greni have promised that there will be an opening for it. In the border counties you might be allowed to run scooters once in a while, and then there's going to be 32 municipalities. There are actually 19 scooter counties in this country. Then there will be one to two test municipalities in each state. Then I would like to congratulate the representatives Breck and Greni on explaining the forty municipalities in Trøndelag that are not allowed to join the scheme, whether this is following the election promises. A local administration and a change to the motorcycling law have promised the Centerpartie – that is not what is being delivered today. So to the Minister for the Environment: This experiment has been going on for 12 years – for 12 years! There are few things that have been researched and examined as much as this. What don't we know today, which we're going to know by holding on for another six or eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2314	I didn't really intend to take the floor, but when one sits here in the hall listening to this debate, it reminds me a little about the old NRK programme 'You'll hear a lot'. I note that the representative, Mr. Greni of the Central Party, says that she is so deeply concerned about local democracy, and that she therefore chooses to vote against local democracy being given the right to manage scooter tracks. For me, it becomes very inconsistent. The same representative also says that she feels pretty sure that when the experiment is finished, there will be a permanent arrangement. I would like the red-green parties to go up to the pulpit today and confirm that this is the case, that all the municipalities will then be given the right of self-determination and will decide for themselves in the future. Of course, that's not what you call a compromise, which no one has seen. This is clear evidence that there is great disagreement in the government parties. You try to train the case further so that you do not decide – that is what is at the heart of the matter. And it's the Center Party that's lost, and it can't stand for the rhetoric you're for. I also have to say that I am a little disappointed – and I wonder if I have misunderstood – but it may be that I have said something wrong, because I noticed that it was said that there is no tradition to discuss legislative proposals here. Excuse me, but isn't this the legislative assembly? Isn't it just this hall that adopts the laws of Norwegian society? I guess there's no room to discuss more legislative proposals than Stortinget. And that we should not do that when it comes to motor travel in the field, it becomes completely incomprehensible to me. It's been 14 years since I first made a proposal for a representative to allow municipalities to have the right of administration over scooters. 14 years have passed, and – without repeating Lien’s views and arguments in this Chamber – the argument has been the same. Then my question, or my conclusion, becomes simple: When we have been waiting for 14 years, and when there is only one word in Section 3 of the Law on Motor Travel in Lands and Watercourses that needs to be changed or removed in order to have this in place – why can the Center Party not support the proposal? It's not about bare-fielding. Why can't the Central Party support the proposal? If the Central Party is to liberalise the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses, and one cannot remove just one word, the word ‘this’ – yes, how can one liberalize that law? Can the Center Party explain it to me? The center party simply throws blues in the eyes of the districts and does not believe in local democracy in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2326	As others have said, this debate is about two representative proposals. The red-green parts are going to vote against them. However, much of the debate has focused on the framework of a proposal that the government has announced that we will send on a hearing. Multiple frames have been passed here. We will send the proposal to the ears – as one should do with such a proposal in democracy – and will be able to come back to further details and discussions about it. It'll certainly be an opportunity to discuss the additional one here in the hall as soon as possible. I received several questions during the debate – first from the representative Harberg: he asked about an established loop network in Sweden, and whether it would be okay with scooter running on established loop networks in Norway. The answer is yes. Where they're established, I think they're going to be used, like in North Troms and Finnmark in Norway. And I think it's natural that the leopards in Sweden and Finland, for example, are used. He asks if the trial plan shows willingness for something more. And to that, I think I'm going to say that what we're going to present now shows the willingness to do what we're going to do right now. So it will certainly, both in this hall and otherwise in society, be different views of these policy areas that we are well aware of over time. The selection of the municipalities I experience has been black on quite a number of occasions up here. In the case of the schemes for the 40 municipalities, it should be application-based. The representative, Lien, asked for knowledge, "What don't we know?" We know a part, so we're now making some changes. But I think it's useful to follow up the changes we're making by establishing more knowledge. It's very rare that more knowledge turns out to be dangerous in retrospect. In the end, I want to say that I don't have as much experience from the big room as many others here, but I think this is one of the debates I've been in myself, which has had perhaps the toughest vocabulary in many ways. It has been a little different, but in particular it has used very harsh words from the Right and the Progress Party towards the Center Party. I would like to say two words about it, because at least it's possible to look at it in a slightly different way too: several parties in Norway have, over some time, been followers of doing something about the motorcycling code – the roles have changed a little, but there's only one party that has been closed down in the last ten years to make substantial changes to it, and that's the Center Party. I think many people in Bygde-Noreg and those who are some with the party in hand will notice that, and I think the reason they want to notice that is the long-term commitment the party has put down, and the priority of that area. I think this is part of the picture that has been presented here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2341	This is probably my last post on snowmobiles, after 16 years at Stortinget. In contrast to individual batches, the Progress Party has been doing the same for all the 16 years. We've been talking about snowmobiles, liberalising the motorcycling law and giving individual local government or individual local authorities the power to decide for themselves. In contrast to the representative Breck, who talks about empty barrels falling the most, at least the Progress Party does not change its mind from us on the Lion Hill until we get to the pulpit. I think that's something I should do. I also register that everyone in the government parties is satisfied. SV is satisfied, and I understand that. The working party is satisfied, and I can see that. But I still can't see that the Central Party is satisfied, even though there have been some representatives from the Central Party in the pulpit. And at least I can't believe that the representative from the Central Party in Hedmark is satisfied when you look at how a snowmobile law or motorcycling law could give new, safe jobs and make life interesting in many ways to those who live in Hedmark. The same is true of many, many other municipalities. I have a lot of comrades traveling to Sweden to run snowmobiles. The reason why they do it and don't run in Hedmark, for example, is that it's not allowed. They travel to Sweden on weekends with family and friends, buy snowmobiles in Sweden, buy petrol and oil, spend the night in a hotel or cabin or rent a house or buy a small torpedoes or small farm, and they stay there all weekend and spend a lot of money. The reason why they do that is that having a snowmobile in controlled forms and driving on the approved manager gives them quality of life. They might as well have had that quality of life at home in their own state, but they're not allowed to do that. Government parties will not give each municipality the opportunity to give the citizens what they want. It's okay if it's a local government that says no, and that doesn't want this kind of motor travel and doesn't allow snowmobiles – that's fine. But the Progress Party wants to support the municipalities and local government representatives who want to give their inhabitants that opportunity. I think that if this had gone through, the quality of life, the basis of nutrition, etc. be much better. I can also promise that whoever comes after me at Stortinget will continue to work to ensure that driving snowmobiles is up to the individual municipality to say yes or no to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2356	The representative proposal for a change to Section 3 of the law on motor travel in the outfield, local snowmobile management in the lanes, is dated 24 October. It had to go almost five months before you could get a press release that outlined how the sitting government would solve the problem, instead of discussing the proposal that is on the table today. It is clear that there is only one reason it took five months: to have it released as far as possible. This must be misplaced now in the campaign year. It's a terrible thing, especially for the Center Party, but also for at least the Workers' Party. The city party SV may not be so important for it, but it is a pure training that has been done. Much has been said about how excellent this solution will be for the municipalities bordering Sweden. The politicians in those municipalities are given some kind of extra judgment that the rest of the municipality-Norway does not have. It's not reasonable in this, it's quite obvious. Everyone has to look through the fog that this is just to pull out the time. Breck does not want to discuss legislative proposals in this room. As Robert Eriksson said, we are in this room that give promises, so we also have to discuss them. Lars Egeland does not want to give power to politicians at municipal level. I understand, that's what SV stands for. Finally, Councillor Solhjell says that more knowledge is not dangerous. No, it's clear it's not dangerous, but you can continue to find and acquire knowledge until Judgment Day without being able to take a stand. That's really what's going on. It is difficult to understand that municipal politicians can be given permission to build the most complex buildings, but not to allow the same politicians the right to allow recreation on snow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2372	It is a little risky to withdraw the meeting as we have done in this debate, but at the same time it is important to have answers to harsh words and to the discussion that has arisen. I'm going to take a couple more points, which I didn't get time to take in my first post. What's important here is that we don't have a tradition – that's what I tried to say, I may not have been ready enough in my first post – to take legislative proposals on the job after a Document 8 proposal in this room. That's what's our starting point, which several of our representatives have also underlined. That's one point. Of course, it is the Stortinget who adopts and discusses laws – it should just be lacking. That is what we intend to do when the government is to propose amendments to the motor vehicle law as soon as possible, as outlined in what has come from the government and government parties. The other point I want to underline even more is that when we now talk about motor travel in the field, there is a balance, as many have said, between allowing the use of motorised vehicles – scooters, quadricycles or what we now call it – and preserving nature and wildlife. This balance sheet says they all want to take care of. The lot that is the most unclear in terms of that, is the Right, which has made a Document 8 proposal to allow off-road driving. A proposal has been made that goes much further than the other parties have put forward in that area. It is later supported by the Progress Party and is then a minority proposal, of course. That's what's happening. It is Right, with the support of the Advance Party, that goes in to expand this. At the same time, they say that one should preserve nature, wildlife, noise, etc. There's something here that I think one should notice in the argument. In particular, one should notice it when one knows what Erna Solberg said in 2002 on a question from Torbjørn Andersen in the Progress Party. We've been accused of double standards from this pulpit now, but she said, ‘In the Sem Declaration, the Government states that the main principle of prohibiting motor travel in the outland is to be maintained. It is this that the Government is generally skeptical about liberalising the motor travel regime.’ [[...]] There have been major changes in some parties, and we have to discuss the basis for those changes when we hear the discussion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2384	The representative Tord Lien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2387	The representative, Breck, is talking about "remarking." We're going to notice that we're going to take care of the flora, the outdoors and the noise. The local motor traffic management pilot projects have shown that progress is being made. I hope that both the people in this room and the voters out there will notice that the representative Breck has more confidence that outdoor life, flora and noise problems are best cared for by the Brother Vegar Solhjell from Oslo than by the local politicians in the North Throne Team and in the rest of the country. I think that's an eye-catching point of view, but I've noticed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2392	This debate will be long enough, so I will be brief. We shall not make it a local debate, but I was challenged by the representative of the Progress Party from Hedmark on how I could be satisfied with the proposal the government will present. Hedmark has 23 municipalities. There are eight border municipalities which, through the proposal, are given the possibility of scooter driving. Most other municipalities can apply for recreational driving. All 23 municipalities can apply for business. That is why, through the forthcoming proposal, we will facilitate economic development in Hedmark, and therefore I can vote against this Document 8 with a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2397	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2411	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2420	The size shall now address a proposal aimed at maintaining Statnet’s User Council, the issue of drawing up a national plan for power lines and costs in the central network. The proposals are supported by a majority in the Committee, and I would like to state that the majority of the Storting – the three governmental parties – are currently in a minority of the Committee. The majority have concluded that Statnett’s User Council and users’ representation on Statnett SF’s Board of Directors will be maintained. The majority also ask the Government to draw up a national plan for power lines, which is updated and promoted for treatment in the Storting once every major period. The majority are also in favour of the government presenting during the spring session 2013 a case on the allocation of costs in the central network between producers and consumers. I assume that the majority of the committee itself will explain in more detail its views. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Stortinget decided, as late as possible in the treatment of the current state budget, that the system of a separate advice by central network users should cease. In the 2013 budget paper, it was noted that, in the light of the major development tasks of Statnet over the next few years, it is important to ensure the neutrality of the enterprise. It is important to maintain this change, because this must be seen in the context of the major changes in the power supply that took place during the reorganisation of State power. The involvement of users in the undertaking should be organised in future in a way that is more consistent with the ordinary organisation of companies. As regards the need for a national plan for power lines, the government parties do not share this view. A Joint Committee agrees that it is Statnet and the major regional network operators responsible for the construction and operation of the central power grid and that the energy authorities have a number of measures and instruments that affect the investments. The Committee points out that external quality assurance requirements for large liner projects are in place and that this strengthens the control of energy authorities by the choice of the concept and the professional quality of the decision-making basis. On the part of the government parties, we see this process as reassuring and it facilitates the necessary net investments. This is also the best basis for ensuring a secure power supply for the whole country. I don't think it's hard to understand the industry's concern about what this will mean for them. At the same time, I know that we have a government that is concerned about the survival of the industry, and that we need to create a long-term perspective for the companies. This is well documented by the grips that have been taken so far for the industry. That is why I feel confident that this will also be the result in this case. I even come from a part of the country that hurt needs a network that is much more time-consuming than today, and that can provide security for the power supply that is so vital for both housing and business. By letter to the Committee, the Council of State has also presented in a very good manner the cost allocation of the central network and an overall committee shares the government's view that the costs of the masked central network should continue to be allocated to all customers. Government parties also share the view of the Council of State that, as a system administrator, Statnett has the best chance of seeing the development of foreign connections towards the Norwegian power system as a whole. Government parties cannot therefore see the need to promote a separate case for the Storting on the allocation of costs in the central network. I then take up the present proposal from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2453	Then the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen took the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2456	The proposed representative 8:17 S for 2012–2013 on user representation in the bodies of Statnett; a national plan for power lines and cost allocation in the central network is closely linked to the proposed representative 8:18 S for 2012–2013 on a future-oriented network structure. However, the Committee wanted and chose to examine these proposals separately. Since the early 1990s, little has been invested in the central transmission system. On the other hand, there has been a need to improve efficiency, and there is today a great need to increase capacity and rebuild parts of the mains. It is necessary to expand the mains power supply for several reasons. The most important thing is to provide better security for electricity supplies to parts of the country that currently have a weak central network. Renewable energy has been given a real driver of the scheme of green certificates together with Sweden. It creates the need for new power lines to bring the power to the consumer. The plans for electrification of the socket also contribute to creating demand for new power lines. The central network is a national infrastructure that benefits the whole country. It is in the interest of most people to maintain and develop this infrastructure. The costs are allocated to all customers in the central network. New consumption or production is often linked to the central network via radials. The use of radials can usually be traced back to a few users. The State considers that it is economically appropriate that a small number cover all the costs of these radials. Construction contributions and tariff provisions may become excessive. The Progress Party considers that it is appropriate to consider whether large-scale society will also benefit greatly from the radials and thereby take part in the costs. Statnett has very large development plans for the next decade. The last revised central network plans have a cost framework of between 50 and 70 billion. kr. Only these investments may lead to a doubling of the current network tariff for all users of the network. In addition, investments to the regional and distribution network are estimated to be 40 to 50 billion. kr. The power grid is a monopoly, and today's system is that all costs are borne by consumers. The party to the progress is of the opinion that part of the costs should be covered by the Community above the tax return. If it is done this way, it will help to get more industry going in the districts. Today, this is difficult, among other things. due to expensive power and network costs. To date, the largest users of the central network have been represented on Statnett’s board. This scheme was terminated following a decision in the State budget. This made Statnet’s bodies less visible, and the main players in this market believe that their views are so important that the system of user councils should not have been terminated. The proposers of the proposal are of the clear opinion that the system of Statnet's User Council and user representation on the Statnet Board should be continued. The proposers believe that it would be natural for Stortinget to deal with the planned investments in the central network. Such treatment would be in line with Storting’s treatment of the petroleum sector and investments in trade. The proposers consider it a crossroads to plan billions of investments in the central network without the Stortinge to deal with the matter. What is desirable is that central network plans are subject to the treatment of the Stortinge during each major period. The proposers believe that the large costs of the central network should be subject to a closer review of the Stortinget. A lot of the costs are related to non-residential dwellings. The revenues from these cables will largely benefit the power producers. The discount should therefore assess the network charge. The Progress Party believes that some of these costs could be covered by the State. This would be similar to the fact that the State directly covers part of the costs of other infrastructure without full coverage by users. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's position, which is supported by the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2479	Statnet has large investment plans for the central network over the next decade, and in the revised network development plan presented in July 2012, the investment need is estimated to be in the order of 50 to 70 billion. kr. There is a strong political consensus about the need for investment – both in order to remove bottlenecks in the network, in order to receive increased amounts of renewable energy in line with the objectives of the electricity certificate market and the EU renewable directive, and in terms of security of supply and to ensure preparedness for a society that is increasingly electrified and where we rely on electricity for vital societal functions. Major investments also mean changes in network tariffs. Statnett is a monopolistic, and it's the users of the network – i.e. households, businesses, industry and power producers – who pay after a specified key. Right-wing believes it would be natural to discuss the cost allocation of the central network in the light of the large investments we have ahead of us. We have called for this assessment in several contexts, including: Last year the Stortinget processed the online message ‘We are building Norway – on the deployment of the mains power supply’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have not wanted to take this debate and assessment – despite signals and fear of the consequences of a two to threefold increase in tariffs for industry. Here we are talking about large sums – several tens of millions in increased costs. Industry requires the central network tariff to take account of the competitive situation of industry. Many actors currently have a rather marginal profitability. Unfortunately, 250 employees at Södra Cell at Tofte got a heavy message yesterday – without me linking this directly to future changes in the central network tariff, but used as an example that many industrial companies are in a rather demanding situation. Power producers, for their part, also fear an increase in tariffs and point out that increased costs may lead to a reduction in investment in Norway during the electricity licence market. If this is true, we risk that Norwegian consumers will subsidise investments in renewable energy in Sweden, since Norway will in any case fund half of the 26.4 TWh new renewable production of the electricity certificate market to stimulate the development of Norway and Sweden. So in this picture, the government is choosing to continue today's network cost distribution. State networks are currently working on a revised central network tariff strategy for the period 2014-2018. This is at best an underestimation of the impact of the large network investments in the years to come, and at worst a discussion of the government and the red-green parties do not dare. A monopoly such as Statnett depends on the trust of both authorities, politicians and customers – i.e. households, industry and other business. This means that Statnet must strive to maximise transparency and good dialogue around its priorities and activities. Furthermore, Statnet must be able to deliver projects within time and cost frameworks that demonstrate control at all stages. Transparency and transparency could also be a quality assurance for Statnet. On the right, the government believes that a wrong decision was made by placing Statnet's User Council and the users' representation on Statnet's board of directors. We need more, no less transparency and transparency in a period of so much investment. This representative proposal, which we have promoted together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, also deals with a desire for the Stortinget – at least once during a growing period – to be presented with a plan for central network investments in the future. The development of power lines can be controversial, and it can be an advantage of a more direct political anchoring in addition to the fact that we spend large amounts on network infrastructure without involving the Storting – unlike in some other areas, such as transport. We are moving towards a situation of surplus power in Norway. It is important to strengthen foreign exchange capacity – in order to increase security of supply in Norway, to increase value creation and to help our neighbouring countries achieve their climate objectives by delivering a balance of power to the continent. On the right, we believe that we need to increase ambitions in this area in terms of increased capacity, release all good forces in the construction of these links and signal an active attitude to cooperation with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2507	The development of new renewable energy, population growth and population change, the development of new power-intensive industries, the electrification of installations on the base – that is, the great transition from fossil energy to clean power – means that we face difficult tasks in renewing and expanding the electricity grid in the years to come. It concerns the central network, the regional network and new international connections, in order to contribute to security of supply and greater power exchange capacity in order to enhance the use of unregulatable renewable energy from wind and sun. This will be challenging in terms of both planning and implementation and taking into account nature and biodiversity. Not least, it will cost a lot of money, and network tariffs will increase. In order to ensure a powerful industry, the government has put in place a CO2 compensation scheme, as the industry has wanted. Statnet’s pricing strategy for the years 2014-2018 indicates that long-term industry with high peaks will continue to pay lower net tariffs than other consumption. The government also assesses changes in the law with a view to further strengthening industry’s access to power, which we believe is important. The SV also believes that it is appropriate to open up plant contributions to the radials, which the Committee agrees with. It is true that those who trigger a need for network deployment have to contribute extra. There are some points where there is disagreement between the red-green fraction and the right fraction. Of course, there is a requirement for more investigation, which the opposition tends to demand. Then there are questions about Statnet's User Council, which the right-wing fraction will have restored. It's actually a little surprising that the right-wing fraction stands for it, because it's a breach of what's normal business organization. On the other hand, it is important that users are heard, and it is also important to recognise that users do not actually have common interests. I therefore believe in the user forum now established by Statnett, while it is important to say that the political governance of Statnet must ensure that the views of the different users are followed up. Otherwise, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are calling for the foreign tables to be private. The government now has a proposal for public ownership at the hearing. The Competition Authority points out that Statnett must be the owner of foreign connections because we need a neutral operator. Otherwise, we could risk making power generation an unreasonable power by both producing and controlling the infrastructure. But the position of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party is in line with the policies of the same parties on the sale of public ownership to Norwegian hydropower by placing State power on the stock exchange or sharing the company. For SV, however, it is important to have a public ownership of both the natural resources and the infrastructure related thereto. These are natural resources to benefit the people and to be managed for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2527	The proposal we are discussing now deals with three related issues: user representation on the Governorate of Statnet, establishment of a national plan for power lines and distribution of costs in the central network. In the 2013 State Budget, the Government proposed that the system of central network users’ advice and direct user representation on the Government of Statnet should be terminated. The centre party supports these changes. The scheme was established more than 20 years ago, in connection with the reorganisation of State power. The system made sense 20 years ago, it doesn't. In view of the large investment currently facing Statnett, it is important to strengthen the neutrality of the company. That is the background for the changes, which are both important and correct. The Minister of Oil and Energy has assumed that Statnett continues to make good user contact. In the online notification, the government was clear that Statnett has a special responsibility to facilitate large consumers of power, network construction and production. In order to fulfil its responsibilities, the enterprise must have good contact with all its users. It was also suggested that the user contact will be strengthened now that the central network user advice system has ceased and Statnet itself organises user contact. As regards the national level of power lines, the Central Party considers that there is no need to promote the national level of power lines in each major period. We believe that today's division of labour, where the government presents the objectives and broad lines of the network policy and the network companies are responsible for promoting the good projects, facilitates the implementation of the necessary network investments to provide a safe and secure electricity supply throughout the country. Finally, with regard to the proposal to submit a case to the Stortinget on the allocation of costs in the central network between producers and consumers, we believe that the costs of the masked central network should continue to be allocated to all customers. The Council of State has said that it will be good for the whole of energy policy and how it will affect the cost to industry. Therefore, the centre batch does not currently support the changes to the control regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2544	As many have experienced, Statnett has large investment plans in the years to come. From 2011 to 2012, the company's estimated planned investments in the central network increased from 40 billion in the years ahead. DKK to 50-70 billion. kr. Statnett is a monopolist that finances its investments through the network tariff of the users of the mains power grid. The users in this context are us ordinary power customers, industry and power producers. Increased levels of investment in the central network will certainly lead to increased network tariffs, which could hit hard, especially for power-intensive industries. The Christian People’s Party therefore considers that there is a need for a more detailed assessment of the future cost distribution of the central network between producers and consumers. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the customer side is being safeguarded and is experiencing security in view of the need for planned investments, cost estimates and project implementation. The scheme of user councils and user representation on the Governors of Statnet has been designed to ensure that users have access to and influence over Statnet’s dispositions. The User Council was terminated by the government from this year. The resolution was unfortunate for transparency and transparency of Statnet’s priorities and operations. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that Statnet's User Council and the users' representation in Statnett SF's administration should have been maintained. State networks and major regional network companies are currently responsible for the construction and operation of the central electricity network. That's still the way it should be. Authorities have a number of measures and instruments affecting investment. In particular, new projects must have a concession under the Energy Act. However, the Christian People's Party believes that a stronger anchoring and involvement of political authorities in the overall planning of the power grid should be considered. Several major power lines, including the transmission of new power lines from Sima to Samnanger and from Ørskog to Fardal, argue that the Stortinget should be more closely involved in the reinforcement of the power grid and the transmission of new power lines in Norway. The Christian People's Party believes it would be natural for the Stortinget to receive the large planned investments in the central network for treatment in the form of a national plan for power lines, which is updated and promoted for treatment in the Stortinget once during each major period. The reasons for this are considerable delays in investments that have built up over decades, and the lack of a holistic approach that today characterises network policy. A concrete example of this is the current outlook for significantly increased oil and gas activity in the north in the near future and the untapped potential for renewable energy production in North Norway. The lack of capacity in the main power grid is now the main obstacle to electrification of future oil installations in the north and to the exploitation of large renewable energy resources in the country. So finally foreignables. Here I just have to say that I have to struggle to understand what the Council of State really means. The signals have gone in both directions. Are the state councils for or against new foreign tables? It would have been nice to get a clarification on this. Statnet has halved the ambitions for foreignables, on the grounds that there is not enough capacity in the Norwegian central network to implement a larger investment in exchange with our neighbouring countries. This is provided by Statnet, without access to data necessary for an independent capacity analysis. That's why I allow myself to wonder if there might be some political leadership behind this change. The lack of transmission capacity undermines the effectiveness of green certificates, as electricity producers and builders who rely on profitability, among others. in new wind farms, account has to be taken of low power prices as a result of excess power and a high degree of containment. Here it seems as if the Council of State is far too backward. It seems that he does not want to take into account the reality, and seems to believe that he can threaten the power companies to build independently of the profitability of the projects. The Christian People's Party wants a more offensive policy for foreignables. We welcome the fact that other actors can also initiate, build and own foreign connections. Control is carried out by concessional award, and through a tax or tax system, governments may regulate and channel tariff revenue back to the central network in the same way as in the current regime. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2561	The left mainly agrees with the contributions of the other proposers, but we will add a few comments to the proposal. It is very important, on the left, to have users present when adopting major decisions, in order to obtain the best possible decisions, in particular with a view to safeguarding both the interests of users and the interests of society. Users have an important voice when allocating large costs and decisions on large investments are taken. This is mentioned by several. In the case of an online message, it is important to clarify from the Left that this should apply to the overall leadership of the network policy and not to a detailed plan for all lines to be built, with trajectory choices and concessions. Overall plans are important, so that the Stortinget discusses policy, while at the same time detailing the management and government's table. Finally, I would just like to mention that when allocating the costs of a central network, there are two elements that have to be taken into account. Firstly, the industry is in an international competitive situation and large new costs will exacerbate this situation. Of course, they have to take a share, but the patience has to be emphasized. Secondly, this also applies to power producers. After we have agreed on a common green certificate market with Sweden, and wind power already has lower depreciation rules than in Sweden, higher costs will result in Norwegian projects having lower competitive conditions than the Swedish ones, and a larger proportion of them are just there. This isn't lucky.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2573	I note that the proposers want the system of Statnett’s User Council and the users’ representation on Statnett SF’s board to be maintained. The provisions on the involvement of users in Statnet through central network users' councils and a representative of the company's board of directors need to be seen in conjunction with and in the light of the major changes that have taken place in the reorganisation of Statnet and Statkraft over 20 years ago. The time is now ripe for the user’s influence to be organised in a way that is more consistent with ordinary corporate organisation. As a central network owner and system operator, Statnett has a crucial role to play in the supply of power. The entity therefore needs to maintain an extensive dialogue with the users of the central network. Instead of the department appointing membership organisations, Statnett itself organises user contacts, so that contacts cover more users and several kinds of issues as needed. I believe that Statnett’s user contact will be strengthened, not weakened, now that the central network user advice system stops. Representatives have also proposed the development of a national plan for power lines, which is updated and promoted for treatment in the Storting once every major period. The government included in the online notification the policy on expansion and reinvestment of the central transmission system for electricity in front of the Stortinget. In the notification, we have clarified the distinction between the responsibility of the network operators – the system operators – and the responsibility of the energy authorities – the regulator, the department. The network companies are responsible for the construction and operation of the mains power grid. Authorities have a number of measures and instruments affecting investment and development projects must be subject to the Energy Act. Instead of creating a national electricity grid plan, I think it is far more appropriate for the government to present the objectives and broad lines of the network policy, as we have done through the online message. Among other things, in the Communication, we have made changes to planning and concession treatment in order to strengthen the early involvement of stakeholders and clarify the political choices that need to be made in relation to the decision on large power lines. The government has now clarified the objectives of network development and it is the responsibility of the network companies to promote the good projects. I notice that there is a consensus that all customer groups will be involved in paying for the increased costs of the central network. I am fully aware that the network tariffs represent a significant cost to the industry, but it will be wrong to see the network tariffs detached from the overall energy policy. The government has made good arrangements for the industry to come forward. Among other things, we have put in place a CO2 compensation scheme that the industry has wanted and asked for. We have also obtained an electricity certificate for which the industry will not pay, but which will reap the benefits of providing more renewable energy in the years to come. It pushes down the total bill, not up. Furthermore, industry obviously also benefits from better functioning electricity markets and increased security of supply resulting from these investments. Statnet’s pricing strategy for the years 2014-2018 also indicates that long-term industry with high peak rates will continue to pay a lower net tariff than other users. In the case of international relations, the government considers that a coordinated development of international relations is important, in the context of the development of the domestic central network and domestic security of supply. I believe that Statnett as system administrator has the best assumptions for this. It is also important that ownership of infrastructure is separate from power generation and other specific interests. It was a distinction that the Stortinget made through the Energy Act over 20 years ago. I believe that there is a proper distinction, and a distinction that should also exist in the future. Therefore, I believe that it is obvious that the State network should own and operate foreign connections from Norway. It is also the case that these foreign connections generate profits — generate values. By the fact that it is Statnett who owns them, this money will be used to push down the network rental for other users. You won't be able to do that if you organize ownership differently. The statutes state that socio-economic investments are to be carried out. This applies both to networks in Norway and to international connections. We have clarified on several occasions, most recently in the network message, that foreign connections are part of the central network.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2604	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2607	All expenditure relating to network deployment shall comply with the applicable rules, whether in the private, public or industrial sectors. Then it's especially the powerful, power-processing industry I'm thinking of, from which I have a long background. Alcoa Lista is a small aluminium mill that produces under 100 000 tonnes of aluminium per year. With the proposed increase in the Statnet tariff, the additional costs for Alcoa Lista could be up to 30 million. kr per year. When you know that the profits are not very large, this is a serious increase. In six years it is about. 16 pst. per year. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything if the government is willing to look at this, against the large increases? 16 pst. per year is, of course, a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2614	Let me start by saying that I experienced a total increase in the ambitions presented by the government for the online policy, i.e. an offensive upgrade of the critical infrastructure represented by the central network, and that we are now entering a period of historically high investments in the central network, and much better networks and reinforcements both internally in the country and abroad. Of course, this is going to cost a lot of money, and there is no one else to take these costs than the users of the web. Even today, a price structure makes industry pay less relatively. Many of these investments are of great benefit to industry, and as I said, I believe that the whole picture must be seen together. In fact, for industry, the electricity bill is going to fall in the years that are coming – not up. We've also seen a very happy development in recent years, because there are many long-term power contracts that have been concluded. This is a good framework for the powerful industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2621	This is how we have produced a surplus of power in Norway and the Nordic countries in many ways — politically. by means of subsidy schemes on electricity certificates. It has obvious consequences in terms of price – very falling prices. In this picture, we encourage companies to invest in new production. It is clear that for those who are seated and have to invest, it is a demanding exercise to count back those investments. When one then fears locked-in power, if we don't get the pace and pace of the power exchange with the rest of the world, we have a challenge in securing the investment. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State believe that we are aiming at at at least 13.2 tWh of new renewable production here at home by 2020, without increasing the level of ambition of power exchanges with a larger market in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2628	We have a functioning Nordic electricity market. The dynamics of the certification market are such that it is the sum of the certificate price and the electricity price that together create profitable and good projects. Then, of course, everything else is similar, the licence price will rise if the power price drops, if it is necessary to trigger sufficient new generation capacity. This means that within the demand curves that we have adopted, it will at all times trigger and generate profitability for the best projects in Norway and Sweden, for the flow we pay for. I do not expect anyone to carry out non-wage projects, but I am absolutely sure that this market will work, and will deliver the flow for which we pay. So it's interesting to notice that the previous replicator was very concerned that the industry had too high power bills, and so now the next replicator is very worried that the power prices are too low for us to get the necessary expansion. With respect to reporting, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2637	We are on the right in a balanced market, that there is harmony between supply and demand. Then we believe that the market is developing in the best way. We are concerned about the cost side of the expansion that we are now going to start on the central network, and experience the same thing from industry and from power producers. It is therefore essential that Statnett be confident that they are able to deliver according to the budget and time, as well as that the right projects are prioritised. That's why I think it's strange that the government adds up to a system that gives less transparency, no more transparency. I have problems seeing that the model with this market and operating forum will provide more transparency than the user council gave earlier, so if the government can explain to me how this new system encourages more transparency, I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2646	I think all parts, if we're not going to call that concern, so at least the desire and the assumption that the resources and resources that we're now using to upgrade the network are used as efficiently and in the best possible way. Statnet is dependent on legitimacy and that we are all confident that resources are being used properly and properly. It is something that we have been concerned about in our ongoing contact with the company, the company itself is concerned about it, and we have also introduced changes in the procedure to ensure an external quality control of, among other things. the social economy of the project. There are many different user interests. I am absolutely certain that there is no transparency by the fact that the power producers have their own representative on Statnett’s board of directors. I think there's got to be some balance between the different reasons you have for the different issues. To build a power line, it is very important to have good representation and good dialogue with local and regional forces. [[President clubs]] I'm absolutely sure we're getting... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2655	As was said here, there are expectations that power prices will go down. But the rent on the web is high and will be higher. When it comes to having a significant network expansion, and one has an ambition to electrify the socket, there is also a lack of a full overview of the network demand, especially associated with electrification of the socket. In this context, the Progress Party is occupied by the private consumer, who in many ways has to take account of the bill, for, as it is said here: Power-intensive industry must be shielded. And we also see it with regard to the big expansions. The worm Lange in More and Romesdal caused a need for a significant expansion, but the type of contribution and contribution to collecting it was not relevant. Does the State Council consider installation contributions from the petroleum sector for extensions that one cannot see today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2664	There are very clear rules for this. If you connect to the masked network, the cost of it is distributed to everyone. If you need a production or consumption radial, you have your own rules for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2669	As many have experienced, Statnett has large investment plans, between 50 and 70 billion. kr for the next ten-year period, and it is clear that this will be financed. The company will depend on going out and raising capital in the market. Now we have a situation with regard to gas fields on the socket, where a consultation draft has created some uncertainty among investors as to whether an additional buffer for political unforeseeability in terms of tariffs needs to be introduced. My question to the Council of State is whether he believes that we can now risk having problems financing infrastructure in Norway as a result of the fact that the Council of State itself is helping to create political uncertainty about the predictability of future revenues from infrastructure projects in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2677	I want to take a sharp distance from the reality that the representative Meling is drawing here – and helps to try to draw. As a regulator, we have both a duty and a responsibility to follow up what has always been Norwegian oil and gas policy. It's mainly good resource management, and it's making sure you take out the value creation, the extra income, the rent on the resources, not on the infrastructure. If it is the case that the Right wants to collect revenue from rent on the infrastructure, and if you want to give preference to non-resident pension funds over what is Norwegian basic interest income, you'd better get it straight. Now this is out for consultation. We are going to review the answers properly, but there are a few other countries that have as predictable and as thorough an administration as the Norwegian authorities represent – and have had. It's a tradition that I'm of course going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2684	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2700	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2709	The size will now consider a proposal for a representative on a forward-looking network structure in Norway. This proposal was supported by representatives of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal envisages that during the spring 2013 session, the government will present a case on the regional and local electricity transmission network and the challenges and tasks facing the network companies in the coming years, with proposals for measures that can provide an efficient and forward-looking network structure in Norway, with fewer and more robust network carriers than today. Of course, an overall committee shares the view of the proposers that a robust grid of sufficient capacity for the transmission of electricity across the country is necessary for a secure power supply throughout the country. We've all become increasingly dependent on a well-functioning power system, and almost all important societal tasks and functions are critically dependent on the optimal functioning of power supply. We who live in the South Troms, the West and Lofoten memories of this a few weeks ago, when the current fell out for half a day because of a short circuit and a subsequent fire in a transformer. In this way, we can say that through this development, society as a whole has become increasingly vulnerable. Networking activities in Norway must therefore be rationally and efficiently operated and the transmission system operators responsible for ensuring the network's reliability, high quality of delivery and the ability to meet the demand for transmission capacity. There is no doubt that the requirements of the companies will continue to increase significantly over time. Many believe that the extensive pooling of network companies can both enhance the quality of what they deliver, and reduce and smooth network rentals. I assume that the rapporteurs will present their comments and proposals, which are included in the vote. However, the Government Parties will demonstrate that the Council of State has long invited the network companies and their owners to assess the appropriateness of the current network structure. This is a matter that it is important to continue to work on, and it can hardly be done in any other way than the Council of State has so far done: in dialogue with the companies and their owners. There is also reason to be satisfied that the Ministry will look into the entire network structure in Norway. Everyone understands that this is a very extensive work, and that it is difficult to decide on the further process in this case today. It must therefore be considered unrealistic to be able to submit a notification in the three months remaining of the spring session in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2730	Today we are debating a forward-looking network structure for the transport of electricity from the producer to the consumer. While electricity is produced by many producers, the network companies across the country have a monopoly on their products. In order to have a secure power supply throughout the country that is both robust and of sufficient capacity, the network structure at all levels must be satisfactory. The electricity network in Norway is divided into three levels: distribution networks, regional networks and central networks. The responsible for the construction and operation of all mains networks is Statnett and the local network operators on site. The central network combines production and consumption in different parts of the country, provides access to the market for producers in all parts of the country and provides exchanges of electricity to all regions. The central network also includes international connections. Statnett owns approx. 90 pst. by the central network, while the remaining part is owned by the main electricity producers. The regional network connects the central network and the distribution network. The power grid is a natural monopoly. Its task is to transfer electrical current into its geographical area. Since all network activities are monopolistic, it is important that these activities are highly regulated and the responsibility is shared between energy authorities, system operators and transmission system operators. Network users finance the operation of the network and investments through the network lease. The network lease is for many a large part of the total electricity bill. Consumers cannot switch network providers, as they can with power suppliers. Therefore, network activities need to be monitored in order to operate optimally both economically and safely. The promotion party refers to the importance of putting the customer in the centre. Norway is facing major tasks of upgrading and deployment of transmission systems over the next decade. Statnett’s plans, which were last revised in 2012, range from 50 to 70 billion. kr in the next decade. In addition, these large investments will trigger upgrades on regional and distribution networks and new installations estimated at 40 to 55 billion. kr. At the top of this, investments in automatic metering systems, AMS, can amount to between 5 and 10 billion. kr. All these investments must be borne by consumers and not least by the power-generating industry around the country. Norway is a large country geographically, but with low population density outside the major cities and agglomerations. This costs a lot to build and operate a secure power grid in all three areas. The investments previously referred to shall all be covered by consumers and industry, in particular the power-generating industry. The monopoly activities, to which the mains power source is subject in Norway, must be subject to the strictest controls. Efficiency, planning and controlled deployment must be the pillars of any network development and rehabilitation project. Close control is required, but in many cases it is contradictory to the dividend policy expected from the owners, which is essentially the state and municipality. From several networks and power producers it is reported that companies have to borrow in order to pay expected dividends to owners. The Progress Party is concerned about this development, as the final bill for network costs is flipped over to consumers and industry. Today there are approximately 150 broadcasters – the smallest with only a few thousand subscribers. The Party considers that a significant reduction in the number of network carriers is necessary in order to strengthen operation and reduce unit costs. Pareto has shown that the unit costs are highest for the smallest companies. The Progress Party, together with the Right, proposes that the Stortinget ask the government during the Spring 2013 session to promote a case on regional and local networks for power transmission. This matter must be addressed in proposals that can provide an efficient and forward-looking network structure in Norway, with fewer and more robust network companies than today. What is real is that we tabled this proposal for a representative at the end of October 2012. So if you wanted it from the government, they'd probably be able to get a document that we're asking for. Finally, I would like to address the joint motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2756	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2759	As we also discussed in the previous case, we have to calculate large investments in the grid in the future. This applies both in the central network and in the underlying networks. A total investment framework of between 90 and 125 billion. kr for the next decade is likely to be based on Statnett’s latest network development plan and estimates provided by Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate. Investments are deemed necessary. A modern society depends on power supply and security of supply for most functions. We need more and a stronger network to be able to phase in new amounts of energy – in line with both the electricity certificate agreement with Sweden and Norway’s renewable targets as part of the EU renewable directive. Furthermore, investment is deemed necessary in view of future expectations of a warmer, wilder and wetter climate, which will require a more robust infrastructure. The network activity is a monopoly, and that means that we, i.e. both politicians, public authorities, power and network companies have an extra heavy responsibility to protect their customers’ interests. Large investments in the regional and distribution networks in the future will mean increased network tariffs for customers, both private households, industry and other industrial activities. The right is concerned that customers will receive a good quality product at the most cost-effective price possible. Societal use of electricity in increasingly new areas, but we also use it more effectively, for example. at households. New construction requirements and different technology developments also mean that household power consumption is likely to decline. The network tariff will also appear to be more expensive than the electricity consumption itself, and some customers already experience this today and question why tariffs are so high. For the right, it is important that customers have a secure assurance that the electricity has been delivered in the most cost-effective way possible. In Norway, we have many online companies. Several reports suggest that a structural change in the direction of fewer and larger network carriers will be useful for customers and provide a socio-economic benefit both in terms of the cost picture and in order to ensure a good quality of infrastructure and services linked to the electricity network. The fact that there has not been any particularly significant changes in the network structure in the last decade, in combination with the large investments we are facing, is the background that the Right, together with the Progress Party and the Left, has promoted the proposal for a representative asking the Government to promote measures that can provide us with a more efficient and forward-looking regional and local network structure. Following the promotion of this proposal for a representative, the NVE has intervened in order to allow network operators that choose to merge to retain the gain of the merger for a longer period than in the past. This is good, and it's a step in the right direction. The question is whether this measure is enough. The financial framework under which network carriers operate is regulated and monitored. It is through these frameworks that we need to make changes that stimulate fewer and larger network companies. The NVE has notified further changes, and I think that is necessary. And it's urgent. Investment needs in the future will require a great deal of resources, both in terms of competence and capital. Furthermore, there are some changes in the value of the outputs along the value chain between power producers via network suppliers to final customers. Analyses presented at the Energy Norway Winter Conference last week, among others. by the consulting company McKinsey, shows how an increasing share of the values associated with power generation is being taken out more closely to the final customer. There is a decline in profitability upstream and a rise in profitability downstream and traditional network operations. How are the power companies to deal with the future margin pressure? This is both a challenge and an opportunity for power generation owners in Norway, i.e. mainly public owners such as municipalities, county councils and state. In order to participate in this value chain, it is important that network operators are able to offer good technology platforms and products and services to the final customer – and this requires both a sense of trend, competence, capital, capacity to implement and not least a desire to invest. If the network and power companies do not make use of this potential picture, there is a relatively high probability that other actors will take an increasing share of the value creation and profitability of the industry. There has been a great deal of uncertainty about the roll-out of the AMS and the requirement for when to implement it. I think it is good that the Council of State has chosen to postpone the deadline by a few years. It is important that we put in place technologies and solutions that are good and forward-looking. We are also pleased that the Council of State has chosen to close the plans and work for a common tariff for the central and regional networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2789	The Progress Party and the Right request that during the spring session the Stortinget get a case on the local and regional network and the tasks facing the network companies. The aim is to get a more robust structure. This is a matter that the government is working on, but it is not possible to complete such a case – and thoroughly completed – during the spring. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the future lies in contractions, and I share that view far along that path. I share the expectations of the proposers that we must have a robust power grid, we must have efficient and economically well-driven companies, and mergers can contribute to this. At the same time, there are considerable differences between network companies in Norway, both in terms of size, in terms of network rental and seafaring, given the geographical conditions under which they operate. In population-rich areas, where companies are likely to be large, it is easier to have a high level of preparedness, and companies appear to be more profitable because it is a lot of customers to share the costs in a concentrated network. In more scattered areas, centralisation and aggregation can quickly lead to poor preparedness. For this reason, many communities have a strong connection with their network companies. In the opinion of the SV, it is appropriate to impose strict requirements on the transmission system companies with regard to the responsibility for the safety of consumers for the supply of electricity in all circumstances. Strict requirements must be imposed on the competence of the network companies both in terms of operation and preparedness and in terms of investment capacity. And then the organization is essentially directed from below by the owners of the online companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2802	The centre party uses Norway as a whole. For the Center Party it is therefore absolutely central to have a robust power grid throughout the country. People depend entirely on a secure power supply, no matter where they live in the country. We need power to everything from light and heat in the houses to hospital operations, business and, for that matter, the charging of electric cars. We need a power system that works well. After many years of insufficient investment and renewal in the network, both in the central network and the underlying network, today's government has made sure that we are now entering a period of historically high investments. Such large network investments are necessary to ensure security of supply and to enable the connection of renewable energy production to the network by 2020, as well as to facilitate new industrial start-ups and reinvestments. Networks are also faced with major tasks that require competence, including: for the introduction of AMS, which several have mentioned. Networking companies must also be able to take on the new tasks while expanding their transmission capacity. The Central Party is therefore pleased that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will take a closer look at the network structure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2820	I am pleased that a total collapse agrees that Norway needs a robust power grid with sufficient capacity for the transmission of electricity across the country. This is necessary for a secure power supply. In the modern society we have, almost all important societal tasks and functions depend on a well-functioning power system. The Christian People's Party is committed to the rational and efficient operation of the network in Norway. Network operators are responsible for ensuring that the network is safe, of high quality and capable of meeting the demand for transmission capacity. The requirements for the transmission system companies will increase in the time to come and huge investments will be made. We know that there is more unregulated power entering the network, and we know that new EU requirements are coming, and that automatic meter reading is to be introduced, AMS. Norway is facing major tasks in terms of upgrading and expanding the transmission system for electricity in the years to come. Statnet’s investment plan for 2012 estimated the investment needs of the central network at 50 billion. kr – 70 br. kr for the next ten years. This is likely to trigger an approximately equivalent investment need in the regional and distribution networks. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate has estimated an investment need of 40 billion. kr – 55 br. kr in the regional and distribution network over the next 10 years. In addition, investments in automatic meter reading systems of 5 billion are to be made. kr – 10 br. kr. These are staggering amounts, which we're going to spend on the mains in the coming years, and that's necessary. This is perhaps one of the most important commitments in infrastructure that we have to make in order to make Norway a more climate-friendly society. Expected climate change is likely to result in more frequent cases of extreme weather, and this also imposes high standards of quality and robustness on the network. The huge investments to be made in the electricity grid in the coming years will mean that customers will have to expect increased network charges. The monopoly activities of the network carriers have an extra great responsibility to ensure that both deployment, operation and maintenance are carried out in the most cost-effective way possible. Today there are large cost variations between the network companies. The annual figure is 120 million. kr on the State budget for the balancing of network rentals. Several teams have signalled that bundling the network companies could be a contribution to reducing and smoothing the network rental. There is reason to believe that today's structure with so many online companies is not optimal enough to meet the major tasks facing these companies. Many companies face challenges both in terms of competence and capital, which of course affects the ability to solve the task they are set to do. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a more efficient corporate structure, which means that network rentals to customers can be kept as low as possible. However, the Christian People's Party shares the view of the government parties that it is not realistic to be able to present a communication on this during the spring session 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2837	A lot has already been said, so I'm going to be very short. New tasks, climate change and higher quality requirements mean that the Left believes we need to look at whether today's network structure is optimal, which many people have been involved in. Only the introduction of automatic current meters and the costs and competences to put them in place make it necessary for the industry to think again. In the comments we can read that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre are aware that the State Council has long encouraged the online companies and their owners to assess whether the current corporate structure is appropriate. The left considers that encouraging is no longer sufficient, and we also believe that we need to look at different economic instruments to put this in place. In addition to this, I mainly join the other proposers and support the minority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2849	First of all, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that there is a need to see the network structure in a wider context. The core task of the power grid is to transport electricity from the manufacturer to the consumer as efficiently and safely as possible. They shall be ensured network access and access to a secure and reliable power supply at an acceptable price. It requires efficient operation and development of the network at all levels and the ability of the transmission system companies to make the right investments in a timely manner. There is a significant investment need for all grid levels, and the focus on renewable power generation will increase investment needs in the years to come. In addition, the transmission system companies are increasingly given new and more demanding tasks, which require specific competence, including: AMS, ‘smart grid’ and common Nordic retail market. This underlines the need for a robust network structure. A forward-looking organisation of the network in Norway must provide a safe and efficient flow of electricity with companies that are strong enough to carry out modernisations and expansions of transmission capacity. I also want to add that it will not hurt if the network organisation became simpler and thus more transparent. Getting the changes should be an affordable task, although it may be demanding for someone, but I remember that thinking new also opens up new opportunities. I will contribute to the development of a better organised network, but the industry itself has a significant responsibility for having a decent network structure. Ensuring a well-functioning power system in the future is one of the key prerequisites for a continued well-functioning and secure society. I am concerned that we should have an efficient, robust and forward-looking network structure in Norway. The Ministry will now continue to work on how we can facilitate a more comprehensive network organisation. However, I consider it premature to promote a case of underlying networks during the spring session 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2867	Statnett, as we have heard, is going to invest between 55 billion. kr and 70 brd. kr for the next 10 years. The regional network shall be upgraded and expanded by up to 55 billion. I don't know, maybe at the same time. Local network operators must take care of it to the extent that it is within the territory of the individual. We have also heard that the Council of State has said that we have too many small companies. I wonder if the Council of State will take an initiative to reduce the number of network companies, not just recommend it, but take a grip. Probably you have to get some sort of financial gain in order for it to become fewer companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2874	There are many advantages associated with a slightly more transparent network structure and even fewer companies. There are also constant changes in the industry, it must also be emphasised, and I am quite sure that this development will continue. In the department, we're going to look at how we can contribute to it. Among other things, we now put in place a mechanism to keep the gain associated with a merger longer than was the case in the past. However, it is important to underline two things. It is the companies themselves and the owners of the companies that have to sit in the driver’s seat in the event of any structural changes. It is not my job as a councillor, but to facilitate it – yes – and to encourage it – yes. Secondly, it is important to say that there are also many small network companies that operate well. We also need to have room in the future for different places in the country to solve this problem differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2881	One thing is what the council says, another thing is what the council actually does. If we look at what the Council of State and the government have actually done about this with network structure, it's kind of like – except for the last one from the NVE that came after we had submitted our proposal – it's really encouraging to accentuate today's structure. Then I aim for the grip that was made a few years ago, by doubling the grant to web-smoothing. So my question to the Council of State is, how can the Council of State say that he wants and encourages a change, while at the same time he grants money in a way that helps to accentuate today's structure? Where is the logic of what the Council of State does, in relation to what he says?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2888	The online balancing system is an important mechanism for reducing the network rental of customers in our most piggybacked regions, i.e. the balancing of geographical differences in Norway. The system does not concentrate on the network structure, simply because it is not the network companies that are allowed to participate in that income flow. This works; this is a subsidy of the end-user, not of the network company. So this is a criticism that I just don't know about. It is also a system that has existed for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2893	Just as a follow-up to what the Council of State said, we haven't disagreed with the transfers, but the doubling of the amount we believe contributes to sementing a structure. But I'm going to my next question to the Council of State. Of course, I am glad that there now seems to be a consensus that we need to make a structural change towards fewer and larger companies. But we also meant that when we dealt with the online message We build Norway for a while back. At the time, the government did not want to look at the underlying networks at all. Now, what has changed your mind? After a year and a half, it's all of a sudden important to make a structural change towards fewer and larger companies, while in the past it wouldn't be discussed at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2900	I think I've been reasonably clear in this communication all the way. There are many advantages in organizing the network differently into a new era. There are new skills requirements; there are new tasks to be solved; there are large investments to be made. However, there are considerable differences in Norway, and in different parts of the country this has been organised in a very different way. I think that's also going to be fascinating in the future. So in any case, you have to have a system that makes it possible to solve these problems as appropriately as possible, but in different ways from part of the country to part of the country – all adapted to local and regional conditions. However, I have been fairly clear that it is useful that the companies themselves now look at the change in the structure, I have encouraged it and also added to it – among other things. through the last change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2907	I want to return to the big investments that Statnett will make in the next decades. This I think might stretch the organisation to Statnet a little bit, and that's when my question comes. Many large network companies or power producers want to build cable abroad. Wouldn't it perhaps be an idea to relieve Statnett to allow municipal and state producers of electricity to build and operate cables in the long run, not just let everything happen under the control of Statnett?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2912	Over 20 years ago, transmission and production were separated. I think that was very forward-looking at that time. I believe that history has shown that it was quite the right thing to do, and I believe that it must also be in the future. We can't have a system where the belly is supposed to fit the oat sack, and separating production and transport is obviously a good and forward-looking grip. I therefore believe that letting manufacturers back into the central network is a bad idea. I also believe that Statnet as a system operator is the one who obviously has the best assumptions to do this task in an appropriate, good way – sew it together with our power grid. The last good and important point is that the profits produced by these lines will reduce the network rental for all of us – industry, private consumers and the public. This is also an important consideration – at least if the concerns raised by the representative Skumsvoll in previous articles are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2919	It is true that very much of our energy policy and its leadership are actually being laid in the EU, and that through the EEA Agreement we have to take these different directives here. A directive, which is likely to have quite a bearing, inter alia, on: on the website, this is the Electricity Markets Directive. So my question to the Council of State is, Where in the process is this directive? When can we expect something to be treated here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2925	I think there is room to say – at least as a historical point of view – that it is Norwegian energy policy that has had a major impact on European energy policy, precisely because we are systematically ahead of it, is early out there and well off to meet the challenges that the future presents us with. So that value side probably goes the other way more often than the representative Meling here expressed. Otherwise, the treatment of the directive is on the way, but here and now I am unable to say anything about when it comes to treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2932	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2946	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2970	I'm trying again, to say it like that. Quite exactly two years ago, I had an interpellation on the same theme as today. Then we had just received the last university ranking from Times Higher Education, which showed that two Norwegian universities were inside among the 200 foremost in the world. The surprising thing at the time, perhaps – not everyone in Bergen will agree with me in this – was that the University of Bergen was ranked at the top of 135th place. On most rankings, the University of Oslo has had the highest position in Norway. In any case, the main point is that the best Norwegian university was ranked no. Six in the North, that's two years ago. My own reflection about this was that it was difficult to know if this was a result we should be satisfied or dissatisfied with. It depends on the ambition we have for our best universities. And some such national ambition is nowhere. That's why I asked the then state council Tora Aasland if it could be an idea to take this discussion, and whether the government would analyse the international competitive situation of Norwegian universities, and then assess what level of ambition Norway should have for its universities. Could it be, for example, Is it an idea to have the ambition that the best Norwegian university in the long term could also be the best in the Nordic region? I got a nice response from the Council of State, but in short the answer was no. Such assessments were made by the sector itself. It was therefore with great interest that I heard the speech of the current Council of State to the Research Association's research policy conference last November. There she expressed some dissatisfaction that Danish and Swedish universities were ranked better than the best Norwegian in international measurements, and that it might be time to raise the Norwegian level of ambition for the sector. These statements are direct reason why I'm trying an interpellation on this topic again today. In the meantime, we have received the new research report. Here the government has actually come up with the good idea that ‘to focus on the professional development of some of our most research-intensive universities and systematically compare them with the best universities in the Nordic region’. This is very good. I am absolutely not going to insinuate that someone in the department has stolen the idea from me, or that they have listened to Højre's leader Erna Solberg, who in his speech to Højre's national meeting last year said that Højre's ambition was that the best Norwegian university should be the best Nordic university by 2030. For the government will properly analyse, but it's suitable for flagging some ambition, besides that universities can be leading internationally, and you can say that if our top universities today, a little depending on how you count. But I would like to stress that I and the Right fully share the government's statement that it must be important that universities make professional and thematic priorities, i.e. point ahead of breadth in some contexts. Some might argue that an objective that the foremost Norwegian university should be ranked at the top of the Nordic region, for example. 2030, really, isn't very ambitious. Let me therefore stress that this is an ambitious and demanding goal. We're going to hijack the place that both two years ago and on the last ranking from Times Higher Education is held by Karolinska Institutet. The last one was in position. 43, now in position. 42. Unfortunately for Norway: our universities have fallen quite dramatically on the last ranking. Both the University of Bergen and Oslo are out of top 200. The University of Oslo is located in a place between 201 and 225. The University of Bergen has fallen approx. 100 places from the last and gets a position between 226 and 250th place. The best Norwegian university is now in ninth place in the Nordic region, and the distance from the top is larger than before. Here we will find, among other things: universities in Lund, Uppsala and Helsinki in the places behind Karolinska. I'm aware that this kind of ranking can be problematic, that they hardly tell the whole truth, and that in individual cases they might give a direct wrong impression. But when major changes take place in a short time, such as: in the case of the University of Bergen, there may be reason to ask why. It is likely that it makes sense not to over-interpret results in individual surveys and rankings. But I will completely reject that the rankings that exist, and especially the Times Higher Education, should have no value or relevance whatsoever. There are some people in the academy in Norway who claim this, and I think that is a completely uninteresting debate. When rankings are based on a number of objective criteria, in this case for Times Higher Education 13 criteria, and they show consistent results over time, it's of great interest what they say. As we know, the international rankings are given more and more emphasis by researchers, students and businesses, all of whom make continuous assessments of the global knowledge landscape. In addition, the focus on rankings can become self-enhancing by directing resources and talents towards those ranked highest and thus further strengthening their position. It is therefore probably wiser to deal with the rankings than to deny them. In addition, the EU Education Commissioner has taken the initiative of a new and probably more comprehensive European ranking of universities, called U-Multirank, which will allow university environments to ‘benchmark’ themselves against the equivalent in other countries and at other institutions. This can be an interesting tool in raising world-class research environments, as both the Research Communication opens up and the Right is concerned about. But let me point out for sure: it's obviously not the location or ranking in itself I'm concerned about, but what it says about the quality and attractiveness of an institution internationally. Then, of course, the value of the profiling a given ranking could have for the relevant university and country. Like it or not, we're participating in an international knowledge race that might have more significance for the future than the arms race we saw during the cold war. So let me return to my starting point two years ago: what level of ambition should we have for our leading universities? What will that require, for example? for a Norwegian university to be ranked as the best in the Nordic region? Is that even possible? Are we, as a country, willing to contribute the necessary resources and measures? Will the government make a strategic assessment of these questions? I look forward to the response of the Council of State today. I hope she has a slightly more offensive view of these issues than the then Council of State expressed in the debate two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e2997	It is a fact that Norwegian universities come out worse on international rankings than the Danish and Swedish ones. The Nordic top institutions claim very well in competition, but they do not say they are satisfied with it. There may be many objections to the rankings. The research indicator is strongly emphasised, the data base is weak and the methodology is controversial. This results in the favour of research-intensive institutions at the expense of those who take a major responsibility for education, and that locations can vary considerably from one year to another, which the interpellant was also involved in. The universities and universities of Norway have a broad mandate based on three pillars: research, education and dissemination. Institutions must first and foremost be measured against how they carry out their broad and societal tasks through high quality in all these three areas. They shall ensure that Norway contributes to the global knowledge pool and shall, by being an attractive international partner, take back knowledge generated in other countries. They will contribute to an increased understanding of nature and of ourselves as human beings and as societies. Institutions are important for industrial development and for the quality of public services. Not least, institutions shall train candidates who may provide the necessary renewal for decades to come. The training must be based on both research and development and at the same time be relevant to the work to be undertaken by the candidates. However, we must recognise that the rankings indicate quality. The rankings often have in common that they are based on indicators recognised by the research community as a sign of quality. Other types of evaluations and measurements, such as fascination, publication and citation analyses and the impact of the European Research Council, show the same thing. The progress of Norwegian research is good, but there is more to go on. What can we expect from Norwegian universities in terms of international visibility, impact and quality? I welcome this invitation from the representative of Warloe to debate quality at Norwegian universities. Warloe is asking for strategic assessments of the level of ambition we should have for universities. As Warloe has probably registered, this is a theme the government is discussing in the recently submitted research report. It is obvious that Norway, which is the size of a small American state, cannot dominate the international university rankings. It's just as obvious that as a rich country, we have the prerequisites to be in line with our Nordic neighbouring countries. The Norwegian contribution to the global research effort is less than one percent, and a population of five million people has their limitations. But does that mean that we should leave resource-intensive and ground-breaking research to major players? I mean no. First, we're already among the very best in some areas. For example, we're one of the world's leading seamates. Here's what we've done for a large part of the breakthroughs. Because we are a country with limited resources, we need to sharpen our efforts and concentrate on asserting ourselves internationally in areas where we have extra good assumptions. Getting really good in some areas requires stable frameworks and good coherence between investment in construction, students and researchers. Therefore, we are starting with a long-term plan for research and higher education, which has a 10-year perspective, and which is an important instrument for prioritisation in order to achieve a clearer level of ambition in different areas. It is a very important step in the research report that has been presented. The major universities express ambitions to strengthen themselves internationally. The question is whether you're hungry enough in our oil-smelted society to achieve those ambitions. In many other countries, there are major changes in research systems. In Europe, research resources are concentrated. New and emerging research nations in Asia and Latin America are playing a heavy role and will certainly have an increasing impact on the global knowledge pool. In particular, Norway must pursue policies that support the international ambitions of the major universities. It's not enough to run faster yourself, if all of the others also run faster. It will benefit Norway as a society to have one or more universities that succeed better internationally. The Ministry of Knowledge will therefore focus on the professional development of some of our most research-intensive universities and compare them with the best universities in the Nordic region. The aim is to develop knowledge that can support the institutions, the Research Council and the Ministry in their efforts to improve the quality of research and education. Universities and higher education policies are in continuous development. From a longer time perspective, major changes have taken place in the sector, including a stronger focus on quality. I believe that even more profiling and spicing of the institutions is needed to achieve a quality level in the sector. Increased profiling involves choosing the professional centre of gravity and level of ambition adapted to each institution. Warloe is asking for measures to lift our best universities. We should have such measures, but I am also committed to measures that can lift all the institutions, each based on their assumptions. In particular, I would like to highlight three measures: the first is the new target structure from 2012 for universities and higher education. There is one important measure to stimulate increased profiling and differentiation. The target structure provides for less detailed management by the Ministry and gives institutions room for action and responsibility for setting objectives that are in line with their specificity and ambitions. It shall provide greater scope for specialisation in fields where institutions have specific prerequisites for success. Institutions have great freedom within the framework of collapse and government, and must define their strengths and objectives. In the international context, Norwegian universities and higher education institutions also have a high level of government funding. Given the freedom of the institutions, it follows a similar great responsibility to set its own priorities in order to achieve the overall objectives. Another important measure to improve the quality of the UH sector is the performance-based census of indicators in research and education. In general terms, the funding mechanism for universities and colleges has remained unchanged for almost ten years. The system is the same for all institutions and has produced good results in one way, but may also have contributed to making Norwegian universities and colleges more similar. In the research report, we have therefore announced a comprehensive review of the funding of universities and higher education institutions. In this we need, among other things: assess the relationship between direct appropriations and external research funding. There is also a need to assess results-based funding towards funding that is based more on policy objectives and institutions’ strategies. The question here is, among other things, whether the systems are now good enough to reach longer in terms of quality. The Norwegian Research Council is a key instrument for improving the quality of Norwegian research. The evaluation of the Research Council gives a positive main impression of the organisation, but points to challenges in supporting the truly bold and marginal research. The Research Council will therefore focus on innovation and the potential for cross-border research more strongly when designing its instruments and assessment systems. At the same time, we must continue the quality instruments in the Research Council which have been shown to produce results. One such instrument is the centres for excellent research. Before Christmas last year, 13 new research environments were designated SFF after hard competition. These centres illustrate that the focus of Norwegian initiatives in research is not the institutions but the professional communities. At our universities and colleges there will be some excellent environments, while others are more average, and the excellents don't necessarily have to be just at the largest institutions. Nevertheless, the majority of the new centres are located at our major universities, the ones that initially have the greatest opportunity to take off internationally. Concentration of such environments on some institutions will contribute to making these institutions more visible internationally. At the same time, the Ministry has wanted to highlight good education. That is why we are now financing four centres of excellence. It will be very exciting to see how these centres gradually divide between institutions. As mentioned at the outset, we must not forget that universities and colleges have other purposes in addition to creating internationally visible research institutions. Universities and higher education institutions deliver candidates in all areas of education both nationally and to their regions. Without good professionals, such as teachers, nurses and engineers, public services and Norwegian business will suffer. Without capable economists and social suites, municipalities and public Norway will stop. We need to maintain knowledge environments throughout the country. A well-developed provision of higher education is important in meeting regional policy objectives. We have to be able to balance these considerations at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3035	I would like to thank you for your answer. I think in essence that the Council of State was fairly clear and ambitious, and I am very pleased that she did not spend much time problemating these rankings. However, it may be that in the debate some will decide to do so later. If you object that the rankings don't tell the truth about the Norwegian universities, maybe they don't tell the truth about any of the other universities either. If you, for example, believes that education is not weighted enough – as far as I remember from Times Higher Education, the education offer of weights and the quality of 30 p.p., as well as a number of other factors of course – one may have to assume that the Norwegian universities are so much better at education than the foreign ones, and do not get a payoff for it. The KUF Committee has visited a number of universities in other countries – Canada and the United States, Switzerland not long ago, etc., etc. We've met Norwegian students at these universities, and the impression we've got from them – I'm talking on my own, of course – is not exactly that they're dissatisfied with the study offer at these universities compared to the Norwegians, rather the other way around. As I said, the government didn't spend most of its time on this, and I'm very happy about that. I agree with the Council of State that Norway is a small country. We can hardly manage to keep our breadth and – let's say – heavy enough in all our environments, spread across all subjects and themes when it also has to be a geographical diversity. There's a point to raise the quality in many contexts. I think the Council of State asked a good question: are our institutions hungry enough in our oil-smelted country? Of course you can say that to the sector, and then they can kick the ball back. I know a lot of them do. They might ask whether we, as politicians – as the authorities and their sponsors – are hungry enough in this oil-smelted country to put the resources and tools at the disposal of the best and most ambitious environments and institutions in our demand? That might be the question that we have to deal with first and foremost. Of course, I had not expected the Council of State here and now almost speaking to come forward or to announce the start of a great work. But I hope the Council of State agrees that it would be an interesting exercise not only to look at statistics and comparisons between our institutions and the others in the Nordic region, but also to do this exercise: what if one of our universities were to climb up, for example. at the location of the Karolinska Institutet today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3051	I have great respect for those who have leadership tasks at our universities and colleges, and I experience them as people who have both ambitions and know how broad their mandates are, in terms of research, education and dissemination. So if we ask -- what should one say -- how hunger and ambition lie, I think it must be a challenge that goes to everyone. It is clear that we, who have experienced an international financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment, which has a significant part of the business with good development potential, and who claim us well, have less pressure and pressure on us than many other countries have right now. Therefore, we have to ask ourselves the question of – what to say – how to make sure that we go all the way further. It does not apply only in universities and colleges. It concerns society as a whole, not least political authorities and the various parties. I think I nuanced initially in my answer how different rankings of universities have many weaknesses. They measure what they measure, but that's also what we get answers to. They are a quality indicator. That was my summary. There's a lot of counter-conceptions about it. I don't want to misunderstand the representative Warloe in order to simplify what is the content of the interpellation, that is, to say that now we're just going to set ourselves one goal, and that's that we're going to have one university that claims to be high on one international ranking. It would seem to me to be simplizing what is the problem here, and misunderstandings on purpose. I think we should use the international rankings as a reference to quality at various institutions in Norway, but never as a single answer with one phase at which universities have good quality. The different rankings focus on different aspects, and there is an important part of the research communication — the relationship between research and education. A clear challenge we have is to find better indicators of what is good educational quality. It is also difficult to capture in these rankings. We're going to have more opportunity to discuss this when the government's research message is going to be discussed in Stortinget, for a comprehensive perspective in that announcement is that we, as a small people, who are always going to have a relatively small share of the world's knowledge production, can feed us more in different areas. This applies to all institutions, but at the same time we have to have the broad perspective in place. Our institutions will also ensure that we have highly trained and competent personnel in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3064	We are today invited by the representative Henning Warloe to discuss the quality and ambitions of higher education. It's probably an invitation to all parties with pleasure, yes, because this is a continuous debate and a continuous work – not because the strategies are too bad, because the ambitions here in the hall, in the government or at the institution level are too low. No, that's because priority targets, including in this area, can naturally change. The workers' party and the workers' movement have always been concerned with raising all education. The struggle for access to knowledge and education has been parallel to the fight for social benefits. All our reforms in education policy – and they have been many – have been aimed at making access to knowledge and education real to everyone in society, not just to the elite. We have also been aiming to ensure that education is relevant to society, and not least: we need to raise quality. These have been the three red threads that have remained in most of the reforms in all education, ranging from kindergarten to higher education. One of the tradesmen’s early demands – which one can trace all the way back to the 1850s – focused heavily on the fact that children from the mainstream should have a free right to higher education. Most of the parties are now in a political creative period. It is time for program writing. It's short and well a great time. For this reason, I would like to share with the assembly what we in the Labour Party think about quality in higher education in the future. It's probably a broader approach than just the ranking our universities get in various international rankings. I would like to stress that it is right – as the interpellant points out – that Norwegian universities do worse than our Nordic friends in these rankings. This probably indicates that the quality is not very high. I'm not going to take a dispute with the representative of Warloe if these are the facts, even if he had openly hoped for it. In the same way as indicators in international rankings, our institutions will build on research, education and dissemination. In addition, our universities and universities have an additional and clearer social mandate. For example, the hooves must meet the regional labour demand for workers with the right knowledge. This is also about some kind of quality in education. Of course, it's not automatically captured in international rankings. In the Labour Party, our perspective is that Norwegian education should be in a world class, for Norway will compete with the outside world based on knowledge and research in the future. We must aim for our universities and universities to have a world-leading education within priority areas. For this reason, we in the Labour Party and the Government will have a better division of labour and more cooperation within higher education. In order to achieve this, we believe that a national knowledge and structural reform needs to be implemented in programme work in order to achieve precisely these objectives. However, we also need to review the funding model for the sector, with particular emphasis on assessing how we can increase student penetration, the quality of study and how we ensure an equivalent quality of education across the country. When I said that, I will of course also show that not everything could necessarily be reinvented. Of course, the government has high ambitions, good strategies and well-functioning measures to improve the quality of higher education. This is all about aspects of today's funding system, which works well, to the new research message, which is just inviting the Storting to new grips. But that debate must, of course, be balanced against the new target structure, where we have given institutions greater space and responsibility to define their quality and place in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3090	I suspect that the temperature of this debate will not be as high as that of the debate I took in earlier today, which was about motor travel in the field – and that is perhaps just as good. I think I need to make a brief comment on what the representative Bremer said now, because he talked a lot about ambitions. But as far as I could see, the only instrument that was presented was more cooperation. That is what I agree with. I'll try to make some other recordings later on. I also want to thank the interpellant for taking this debate. I agree with both the Council of State and Bremer that this is enough of a topic that we have to address even when we are dealing with the research report – which we have probably started with in the committee. So I agree with those who say, have said, and are going to say after me, that it is quite obviously reasonable to discuss the ranking. It makes sense to discuss what the real goals are, and all of this, and how the ranking can give a better picture of the universities we actually rank. All that's well and good, but at the same time it's like these rankings are there, and we have to deal with them. It does international researchers, it does international students, and it does Norwegian students. If we're going to be able to recruit the very top students and researchers to Norwegian universities, it's imperative that we have some institutions that can claim these rankings. I also believe that having some academic flagships that are well visible in Europe is good. I also think that's good for those institutions that can't be expected to have that kind of ambition. Having some flagships in Norway that train and research at a high level will also provide a recruitment basis for other institutions in the rest of the country. So I think it's obvious that some of the universities -- I guess it was the interpellant in there too -- have to take the job of getting back knowledge from research and education environments elsewhere in the world. No matter who controls the Ministry of Knowledge, Norway will deliver between 0.5 pst. and 1 pst. of all research production in the world. We cannot base Norwegian welfare and prosperity on 1 pst. the production of knowledge in the world. We have to have some flagships to bring this knowledge home. It is therefore important to build strong environments. Then I heard the Council of State talk about investigating, evaluating, evaluating, etc. Well, that's good, that's good. I agree with most of what the Council of State said. But then I hope that when the budget comes once in October, I will recognize it – that okay, this has actually followed up – because it has a consequence there as well. I very much agree with what the Council of State says, that the institutions themselves have a considerable responsibility to solve this, and they have to use their strategic space to achieve that goal. Then I think it's a paradox that it's been drawn out, because we know that during the red-green government period, in the last eight years, the strategic space of action of the universities that could have been used to position themselves internationally, de facto has been reduced. This is not the findings of the Research Department of the Progress Party, but it is the Action Space Committee that has come to that conclusion. That is the one thing – we need to strengthen the strategic space for action of these institutions. That's what it's all about, I think, prioritizing. We're too bad at discussing that in this room. I believe that we should get to this, which I believe is a good ambition, we must give priority and dry money to it. One concrete input: We have the Research Council as the main advisory body and the instrument to strengthen research in Norway. If we agree on the objectives that we have discussed today, it is a paradox that only 7 pst. the funds allocated by the Research Council are allocated on the basis of purely qualitative parameters. I think that's too bad. A greater share of the Research Council's funds must go to research-initiated research projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3116	Some time ago, I received an enquiry from a student abroad who was genuinely concerned that none of the Norwegian universities were on the ranking lists of the 200 best universities in the world. The student wondered what we could do to improve this. That is why I would like to thank the representative of Warloe for travelling this sampling once again, sail if it's not that long since the last time we were in the same place. It is important that we, as wholesalers, have the development of Norwegian universities and colleges for regular debate. Without any attention, it is easy to steer away from the radar. One might say that it does not matter what place a Norwegian university places on international rankings. The university can be good anyway, and maybe it's also the very best in its field. But we can't get away from the fact that both Norwegian and foreign students check the ranking lists before they study. Some work intently towards a place in one of the most prestigious universities. Yes, the committee was, as the representative of Warloe said, somewhat ‘starstrucked’ about being allowed to visit both Stanford and Berkeley universities on committee missions in the United States. Having raised up to several Nobel Laureates gives a maritime status, and it gives the outside world the impression that the university — also in total — has a higher quality in all its studies than the Norwegians. What about our own universities? We may think that universities are seagoing and thus should make sure to qualify on their own, but we cannot adjourn as big-scale politicians. We are the granting authorities, and we must both make demands and have expectations for our institutions in this area too – which the sector should have for us. The question is whether we have good enough and clear expectations of what universities will provide of research, quality in teaching and follow-up for good progress. Do universities meet strict requirements for their own employees and students? Do we organize properly within the institutions? Is that good enough leadership? In fact, do we know what makes learning promoters in higher education, and what seems to be anti-learning? Do we know enough about what's going on to raise ourselves on the international rankings? I don't think so. We all understand that it is demanding for a Norwegian university to make a commitment to achieving top positions on the international ranking lists. I don't think we should expect that, but we have to be able to have an ambition at least to be on the lists, and maybe among the 100 best. Many of the big and heavy foreign institutions have a completely different history and opportunities than Norwegian universities have, but we have to take the best experience from these institutions, and then we have to set some goals. Nor is there any reason why we should not have the ambition to be as good as the Swedes. Karolinska Institutet is today no. 44 at Times Higher Education for 2013. The Swedish have four universities among the 140 best in this ranking, and both Denmark and Finland have universities on the list. We don't have any of the 200 best. Times Higher Education gives points for both education, internationalisation, business benefits, research and citation. They measure on the basis of 13 different criteria, as far as I know. We live in a global world where distances are small, much smaller than before, and the world can be assessed wherever we sit. The ranking lists don't have to be a truth witness to what's best, but they matter. It will therefore be interesting to see the first lists where individual disciplines are measured against each other, as U-Multirank has done in 2016-2017. And then there's also going to be a discussion about whether these lists are good enough all the time it's going to be something up to the one who reads the comparisons, to think what's good and less good. Globalisation means that Norwegian universities will still be able to benefit from the fact that we do not require school money from the students. You can study for free. Although I have seen that some people have called for the introduction of school money, even the Central Party Programme Committee, this is perhaps one of the biggest benefits both students and institutions in Norway have, and something we should protect about. The introduction of school money, and even for foreign students only, I don't think at all going to help make our institutions better. I think that, on the contrary, could lead to the loss of a very important dimension of the institutions. Internationalisation and student mobility help to promote quality and the ability to increase on the ranking lists. It can have an invaluable potential for our country in the future. These students create networks while in Norway. They teach us how to live, what is appropriate and not, how Norwegian students abroad do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3142	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a debate on the quality of higher education. This with rankings is important, and it's exciting. One might wonder why the question of measurements is raised. This may be because there is a greater national interest related to the use of resources, i.e. a resource focus. Internationalisation and globalisation may make comparisons with the rest of the world more natural, and rankings are part of this. In addition, ranks created for the media community are ranked. But the rankings have a number of challenges. Among other things, there is a difference between where the focus is, and one can draw different conclusions from rankings, such as that a university has become better or worse because of jumps or falls on the list, regardless of seeing it in relation to other people's movements on the list. A challenge with rankings is how they are read. One can perform a small game of ranking data. If, for example: look at the Shanghai ranking and ask the question: how many schools do the different countries have among the top 100, the answer is that the United States has 53, the United Kingdom has 11, and Germany and Japan have 5. Seeing a number of teaching places among the top 100 in relation to the population, Switzerland's number. 1, Denmark, No 3, Sweden No 4, Norway No 5 and Finland No 5th@item: inlistbox So we're on top five. Read more about this in the book Kehm and Stensaker, 2009: University Rankings, Diversity, and the New Landscape of Higher Education. There you'll see that you can read rankings in different ways, and it can be measured in different ways. But we have other quality indicators that we can use with rankings, for example. scientific publication. The production of scientific publications has increased by 50 pst. only in the last five years. Norway, as one of the few Western European countries, has increased its share of the world’s total product production from 0.53 pst. in 2001 to 0.63 pst. in 2011. Our doctoral education is well-considered among international colleagues, Norwegian students are well-considered abroad, and we train more doctoral students. This together provides a basis for saying that Norway is doing well. Although there is room for improvement, there is no need to blackmail universities in Norway. If we are to have a better research system, we should have more long-termity through research plans and summits, and we need to bet where Norway has people and advantages, as the research report suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3159	I agree with the last speaker that rankings can be read differently, and you can extract different types of knowledge. It's necessarily interesting themes and interesting exercises. It is clear that we from the Right are not concerned with black paint. I have not determined that it is very negative for Norway that we have no university in the last Times Higher Education among the 200 best. It's going to be possible to think differently about it. If that's the case – and now I have to make sure that I remember the right number – that there is a place between 10,000 and 16,000 universities in the world – in China there are apparently new ones almost every week, so that number is under development – but let's say that there are 10,000 universities in the world, and that small Norway has 2 in the top 250, then it's not necessarily a bad result. But that's exactly what I've been trying to record. The answer to this question depends on the level of ambition you've decided to have. That, I think, is an interesting debate, which must necessarily be based on some analyses and strategic assessments. I believe that the government opens up to do something -- they call it a -- systematic comparison of different facts about time between our leading universities and the other leading universities in the Nordic region. It is likely to be a good starting point for assessing the potential for improvement in our universities. Although I've been boasted by someone to travel a debate on quality, I've strictly considered perhaps first of all wanted to raise a debate on the level of ambition, because quality can be measured in so many ways, but a level of ambition must be based on some concrete choices. Then, of course, such a choice would be to take the international rankings seriously and say that these we have to deal with. We might disagree with some of the criteria, but this is the world as it's connected right now. This is a great place internationally, and we want to make a policy to make our universities appear more competitive. I want to be absolutely convinced that they will also have higher quality if they systematically score higher on these rankings over time. I feel that we don't come much further here today. The debate is strictly closed soon. When we come to the examination of the research report, I can at least promise that we on the Right will have a number of concrete proposals, precisely to raise the quality and profile our very best institutions and environments better and stronger in international competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3171	This may well be a little warm-up to the discussion the Committee will first have about the research report, which will then be taken into account in the Storting before the summer. I look forward to coming back to the discussions that are to be brought into the wake of this. I find it difficult to imagine that a goal for Norwegian institutions would be to climb on one particular, selected international ranking. A goal for Norwegian institutions that is about increasing and feeding more in some areas, I think is better suited to what is our starting point. There's some areas where we're in world class already. We can get more, but we don't use the tools we have today, for example. Centres for excellent research, to raise whole institutions. We're focusing on some environments that we see have special qualities, and they also compete for quality parameters. That's obviously another way to think about it. It also means that smaller institutions can and can participate in the competition to be centres of excellence in research. I look forward to getting back to this discussion in connection with the processing of the research report. I understand that there is a fairly broad consensus in Norwegian policy that we must have higher ambitions and eat more, but I stress that there is a discussion that all the institutions should have. We shouldn't think that we have a few universities that are going to have ambitions, and that the others can lean back. It shouldn't be that we think that we have a few universities that are kind of going to have ambitions, and then the others can lean back. It should be that each institution is carefully considered in what areas it really wants to take up, both in research and in education, and in particular in the cooperation between research and education. There is also a perspective that lies in the research report, and that I myself am very concerned about. The most important way to disseminate good research is through the students: through the quality they have received in their education, and through what they take with them into society in all the different areas they are going to work. The most important way of recruiting for good research is also through the students, through whom an extra effort can be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3196	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3205	We have a proposal for a representative from the local government representatives Tenden and Skei Grande to increase the number of teaching staff with a doctorate and ensure more career paths in school. In the Norwegian school, many good people work – competent, creative and caring people – and more people do. As a newly educated teacher, I greatly appreciate the focus on just the teacher role and on the increased recruitment of the profession. I greatly appreciate the work that the government has done to raise the status of the teaching profession, and the interest that this work has created for what is the world's best job. Being a teacher for children and young people is demanding, a bit weary and very, very rewarding. The Committee notes that there is already a dialogue on these issues. Through the GNIST cooperation between the partners in the school and education sectors, career paths and recruitment of new teachers are a topic. But, as we also write in our remarks, the majority of the committee believes that this is something that should be up to the social partners to negotiate. That is why we do not want to adopt the Tenden and Skei Grande proposals either. Nor does the majority of the committee see the need for a separate pilot project with additional salary subsidies for teachers with doctoral degrees, all the time it is possible to negotiate wage adjustments for teachers through either central or local negotiations. However, it is important to highlight the good work that the government has done — and will continue to do — to raise the status of the teaching profession. Today, much more people want to be teachers. Several are applying for teacher training, and the status is on the way up again. But it has not been given that everyone with a doctorate raises the status of the profession, or increases the quality of the education. Because it's like the advertising campaigns say, 'Do you have it in you?' Not everyone has it in them, and then they won't be teachers either. We need to recruit people who can impart the knowledge they're sitting on, whether they're knowledge of higher education, master's degree or doctor's degree. I know from experience that it is a great leap from writing a master to meeting 14-year-olds. It's a challenge to go from a high academic level to answer questions like: Hitler, is it he with the big or small bart? The people we're looking for are people who can handle just that leap, and who can translate the knowledge they're sitting on into good education at primary or secondary level. So we need to continue the good work to get more people to choose to become teachers, and to get more people to complete the teacher training they just started. It is clear that the Minister of Knowledge is working intensively and well with this. We also have to get back the apostate teachers, and then maybe there's even someone here on the house who might consider coming back after a politician's career. We also need to recruit more from new groups, including people with doctoral degrees. But then it is important that we not be hasty, but that we follow up on the good work done by the Minister of Knowledge, and not least that we let the parties through, among other things. GNIST work is finding solutions to precisely these challenges. I appreciate the Tenden and Skei Grande's desire to raise this very issue, and when the majority of the committee does not want to adopt the proposals the representatives come with, it is not because we do not think these issues are important, but because there is already a good work going on both from the government and from the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3222	Over the past few weeks, we have received rather depressing reports of significant leakage from teacher training, of students who repent of their choice of study, and of newly-trained teachers who experience the meeting with reality in classrooms that so tough that they drop out of school almost before they start their working life. This knowledge of serious failure in the recruitment of the teaching profession must be taken more seriously. The right has itself addressed a number of measures for teachers, with the aim of increasing the attractiveness of education and raising the status of the profession. I mention five-year master's education with a guided transition to the profession, the radical escalation of the provision of continuing education, a more flexible and decentralised provision of continuing education and, last but not least, the right will have new career paths in the school, which means that good teachers will be able to develop and make careers where the students are – in the classroom. Therefore, the Right-wing intention of the Left-wing representative’s proposal and the urgency of presenting measures that clearly demonstrate that society values high levels of competence and teachers who want to perfect themselves professionally. The outlook for teaching shortages in 2020 now ranges from 11 000 to 18 000, and there should be an additional wake-up and support the need for action to further raise the search for teacher training. The GNIST campaign has led to more applicants, but teacher training has a major challenge related to the high dropout rate from the study. What does the GNIST partnership think about this? Sees the Council of State that questions can be asked about the significant funds put into annual advertising campaigns and whether these funds could have benefited better if they had been used to test out schemes with, for example: admission interview and enhanced guidance for newly-trained teachers who are out in their first job? Research has emphatically determined the importance of the good teacher. We also know that you don't become a good teacher without mastering both the subject itself and the mediation in meeting with the students. Having such knowledge without taking the consequences of it is a neglect to all the students that this concerns every day considering the kind of competence that teachers have that meets them in the classroom. It is a sad fact, but the teacher crisis in Norway is getting closer every year, and it is worrying to note that the position of the government parties in this matter is that the proposal is not adopted. It sends very unwise signals to the country's teachers in the Right's view. There is a need to rethink developments in the teaching work, and I would therefore strongly appeal to the government parties to reconsider their views and vote in favour of proposal No. 1 concerning the annex to the proposal. The left deserves commendation for promoting this proposal, and to focus on one of the major challenges of the Norwegian school: getting enough qualified teachers and developing new career paths to motivate skilled teachers to develop and stay in school. In the 2013 state budget, the government writes very positively about the importance of the competence of teachers and points to the fact that this is the single factor that has the most to say for the learning of the students, if we ignore the social background of the students. But if the government and the minister of knowledge want to develop even more competent teachers, the Right now calls for more concrete measures to achieve this. Facilitating new career paths in school can be one such measure. A government that makes it ring the bell without taking sufficient action to ensure that the school has enough qualified teachers in the future has actually failed the students. Something's wrong if it's the way the students are flattered about what kind of benefits they get from the school. The right may not join the proposals today. 2 and 3, because we believe that this needs to be further investigated, and there is a need for dialogue with teachers' organisations and local authorities, which have responsibilities for employers. However, the right-wing government also believes that it has a great responsibility to take initiative and to be a more active driver for actions that can help raise the status of the teaching profession and make it more attractive to choose this profession. The time is running out for us. Finally, let me say that perhaps the most striking thing in the big message we received a week ago, called ‘On the Right Path’, is that the great teacher recruitment challenge is not given more space and greater and necessary attention. If we don't succeed in manning the school with qualified teachers, it can quickly go the wrong way for Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3248	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, has intended to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3251	That's what Aspaker's going to do. I'm addressing proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3256	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3259	This matter is ultimately about how we can strengthen the status of the teaching profession. At least it's absolutely necessary to do that. We already have several thousand jobs in Norwegian school where there are no qualified personnel to practice that particular profession. The fact that we accept the already existing under-coverage of educated teachers in school – and the responsibility for it is not just here, it is definitely also out in the municipalities – is in many ways to send out a wrong signal. Of course, that's not good. That's why we have to work to strengthen the status of the teaching profession. The representative Aspaker was inside the GNIST. It has cost a few dollars – it has. There have been several applicants, we should not put that under the chair. But at the same time, the recording statistics show that the character range has almost not changed. It's a sign that maybe it's not the most talented high school students you've ever met. That's what you do so well, for example. in some Asian countries, and not least in Finland, where this is the case with the school, and recruits the best pupils in higher education. Whatever happens to this -- we can assume that it's going down -- it's important that we keep the pressure. That is why I am pleased that the Left has promoted this proposal, and that we get the chance to discuss it. One of the things we can do is create attractive jobs, but then we also have to reward professional weight. We can do that by strengthening the continuing training programmes, and we can do that by encouraging them with higher education economically, economically, economically, economically, and strictly – I think we need to be honest and say – is very limited space for doing today. Then you could say that we have to wait for the parties. Yes, if this had been a debate that appeared yesterday, it would have been a perfectly legitimate position, for it is clear that it is the parties that must ultimately take action and make the decisions. But it is possible to help them a little bit on the way to sending some clear signals from this pulpit. I do that now, I hope at least that I'm clear. We have to put this in place. We have to reward skills in school to a greater extent than today. We know a lot about this, that heavy professional competence on the teaching side, especially in higher education, has a very positive effect. You have first and foremost tried with people with a major and a master's degree so far, and to a very small extent with people with a doctorate. I'm sure it will work, and it'll probably affect the entire learning environment of the individual school. Like the Right, we are co-sponsors of proposal No. 1, but we do not choose to vote in favour of the motions for resolutions. Two and three. But as I said, we can't have this debate year after year, and that it's the parties, the parties and the parties that are going to settle. If we want to do this, we must also help send out clear signals that skills are important at school, and that we give priority both to strengthening the skills that are already there, through continuing training, and to reward people with a high level of professional competence when they become employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3272	There's no doubt that we're going to need a lot of good teachers in Norwegian school in the future. More people have been told that in the future we can lack between 11,000 and 18,000 new teachers, and if we're going to be able to get many enough and good enough teachers to attend Norwegian school, we need both the right people and the good people to choose to take education so they can become teachers, we depend on them to start working at school, and we also depend on them to stay there. There are three important assumptions if we're going to be able to get enough teachers in the future. When SV's representative talks about calling back the apostates, it's the word that sounds good to a KrF's ears! If we're going to do it, it's about having tools that make people see career opportunities even after they start school, that they can evolve, and that they can get better at the job they're in. In this respect, we believe that there are many good proposals in the 8th Amendment to the Left. Let me also mention something else that I think will be important in order to get it done. One has taken up the Christian People's Party before. We are concerned that the practical share of the new teacher training was not increased when we first took the time to make a whole new teacher training. I think it's in the classroom meeting that most of those who have started the studies, or completed the studies, get a practical shock, they get a meeting with reality and school life that makes them maybe choose not to go to school. We believe that we need to look at the practical share of the new teacher training and see if you can increase that proportion somewhat. It is also important that careers and career paths allow teachers to develop in school. Continuing education is then important. It will be important to have a mandatory mentoring system and it will also be important to have more groups of professionals in school so that teachers can actually pursue the profession in which they are trained and set up. Today, I think a lot of teachers are experiencing that they get tasks that they didn't intend to be part of in the teaching profession, in meeting with the school. I'm addressing proposal No. 2, where the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor. If the left-hand side takes up proposal No. 3, I would recommend Christian People's Party representatives to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3285	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3288	The proposal that we have presented here today really says a little about knowledge and shows some lines of policy, as I see it. What is the big challenge in Norwegian school today? Well, it's getting more wise, good teachers into every classroom. It's the most important thing. I believe that all forces should be used. What can you do to get teachers back, more involved in education, and more through education, which is the biggest challenge? I don't believe in advertising campaigns. I think it's done by restoring respect for the teaching profession, stone by stone. This is done by making academic career paths for teachers, by making it possible for teachers to be able to build up their subject during the time in the classroom, by appreciating standing in front of students and teaching as the guest you can actually do in school – not to become a principal, not to become an inspector, not to become an apprenticeship candidate, it's actually standing in the classroom and standing in front of the students. So until what came from the case rapporteur, that only you are pleasant and jovial and communicate well with the students or have it in you, as it is called, you are a good teacher: I will tell you that I have had many good teachers who have been fighters, who have been strange personalities, who have lived for their subjects – there are many good teachers who have lived for their subjects inside gray parkas, but who have been great teachers. I don't think it's funny or easy to do, it's because you can do your thing, you're burning for your subject, you want to communicate your subject. That's why I want us to have a system that stimulates teachers to reach out for their subjects in a professional career. That's why I want more doctoral degrees in, as you're now working with in Swedish school. There you've done exactly what we've suggested here. That's why I want more people who go after their subjects in a professional career, who can stand in the classroom and do it. I have several times told stories from Budapest from this pulpit about the professor who had to teach at all levels in order to keep his professor's title. I believe that we should have the very best to teach the very young. I would have had those who really know their subjects, to teach them all, the youngest. If you see, for example, in institutions that have really succeeded in Norway, in our art subjects, such as: within music, like Barratt Due, what is the key in Barratt Due's pedagogy? What is the main thinking of the educational system on which the institution is built? Well, it's built on that you're going to use the very best teachers on the very young. You're going to use the highest ones. When they organize Valdres Sommersymphony, they bring in the best educators from all over Europe – yes, from all over the world – to teach nine-year-olds on the violin. The result is amazing, of course it is. When you have the best professionals to work with the youngest, you get amazing results. Then it's not about being cool, but about doing great to play on the violin. I think that's a thought that we have to put into the entire Norwegian school system. It's not that we've lost power by adding this to another negotiating institution. One has a lot of possibilities to use that power from the department. It's about setting the career paths. That's why we've also wanted to open up for certification, just to give more status to being a teacher. That's why I might also have created a completely different ladder with academic names of being a teacher, so that you could also create a career ladder linked to pay and related to standing in front of the students in the classroom. That's where I think we need to stretch to be able to recruit good professionals in the future. That's how we have to do it to raise the status of the teaching profession in the future. We have to give the "cure" to the knowledge. The proposals we have put forward here today, we believe, are a step towards doing so. Then I would like to address the suggestions that we have in the matter. We're going to remember this even after the election, and this is going to be one of the most important things we need to do when we're going to raise Norwegian school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3310	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3313	I want to start with a quote. 'All the power in this room', someone has said. In this case, at least I feel that it may not necessarily be. Almost everything that has been said from this pulpit, I agree, and I think most people really agree that we want better teachers, we want better education for teachers, we want more people to become teachers, we want those who are competent in our society to be teachers. We believe that this is very important, and we really agree on that. The reason why I say this about ‘All power in this room’ is that there are two important institutions that are key institutions in this way — at least one is the institution, the university and higher education sector, which are autonomous. The way in which they develop, implement, teach and work in practical education, they decide to a large extent on their own. It makes it difficult to control from here what these educations should be like. Those who own schools in Norway are either municipalities, which have local autonomy and which have responsibilities for employers, or private ones, and the private schools are also governed by the Training Act. Now, of course, we have a lot of control from here, but right in the things we're talking about right now, it's a disengagement around what kind of instruments we actually have. It is clear that KS will probably not be as enthusiastic about some of these proposals as many in this committee might be. It's a fact. Nevertheless, I believe that it is a very correct and important debate to travel from the Left side, because we are fully in agreement that some should bet on the teaching profession, you need to have development opportunities. It should also be that you get a foothold when it comes to pay, as it is in very many other areas. But it's the Education Association and the parties less interested in it than maybe other trade unions. We have to respect that, because that is how the rules of the game are in Norway. It makes it quite demanding to decide here how to do this in detail, and that's the main reason why the positioning parties go against, even though we believe that there are many wise thoughts behind it. Then I want to challenge ourselves, and it's about those who sit and rule Norwegian municipalities – they're in the same parties as us, they're going to meet at the country meetings beyond spring, and they have a lot of power around these things: we can make career plans and make special positions in Norwegian municipalities. We can do that in Oslo too, where the right hand hand hand is running with the left hand side. We can do it in many of the municipalities that the Workers' Party rules. But we also have to contribute to our local politicians who are close to school as school owners, making more use of that kind of tools, so that we get even better teachers, and working systematically with good recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3328	I met the one who was selected to Norway's coolest teacher last year, a competition that I think it was P3 that had, and it was a teacher who had not won any fashion show – not to the detriment of this teacher. He was probably a little older than me, he had fascinated his students with his extremely intense professional competence, but also with the way he worked – this was a natural subject – because he had made sure to get, what to say, additional material from slaughtered animals and stepped the freezer full. This meant that these students had real material to dissect and learn from in nature science lessons – amazingly interesting and inspiring. It was just that combination of professional competence, an intense commitment and a good pedagogue that managed to lift the students to those heights, and they tied him to Norway's coolest teacher. So cool doesn't have to be relaxed, I just want to say to the Big One. Let me just say the following: there's a lot of what's in this proposal, which I very much agree with. The question is, how is the way to find a system that enables us to ensure that those who have a strong professional interest in developing their professional interest are also closest to the students? How's your way? There are people who believe that the GNIST collaboration is an advertising campaign. But GNIST cooperation is a way of thinking about how to cooperate with those involved in the sector in order to achieve some good results. So the GNIST collaboration is with the teacher organisations, with the KS, with the higher education sector and with the student organisations, and we have regular contact. That's what's behind our success in recruiting more teachers now than before. Advertising campaigns are a tiny part of it, but systematic cooperation in this area is what makes a difference. I have to say, sometimes I feel that the government is a little lonely in the fight to make the teaching profession attractive. It's an incredibly demanding and exciting profession, and I think it's precisely that of the advertising campaigns we've had that have appealed to young people, namely that we say this is not a profession for everyone. It's not a profession for you, if you don't have the professional interest, the ability to make contact with young people and the ability to follow them up properly. That's exactly something of the background because we have increased recruitment. Some of those who start their teacher training must stop before they are finished, because they find that they do not belong there. Then it is better that they stop than that they hang themselves half- or uninterestedly through a teacher's education, contribute to demotivating the other students and come out without having thought of anything in particular in Norwegian school. Of course, the best thing is if they discover it before they start school, but if they discover it along the way, it's better that they think of something else to do. Finally, we have a close cooperation, through the GNIST partnership, to look at exactly what is the intention of these proposals; how to get more career paths. By 4 March this year, we had a meeting on exactly this, which was based on how we could gain the interest of the tariff partners in cooperation on local solutions for career systems. Then I don't think the wise thing is that the Storting makes decisions that come in from the side and say, "That's how we thought it should be." Then I think the wise thing is to agree with the parties on how to proceed with this. We have discussed certification systems, and we have had beginners from Sweden who have gone through the way in which certification systems have been implemented in Sweden. It made me quite skeptical. It's almost only Swedes who are able to do something that has such a good intention, so bureaucratic, and that's what the National Education Association's National Meeting also decided. It is hardly wise then that we step down from the side line at School-Norway. I very much agree with many of the intentions contained in this proposal. But all my experience with what we're doing when we get up the recruitment and interest in the teaching profession is that good cooperation with the parties is crucial. If we step down slightly on the parties that make this relatively demanding discussion intersect initially, we're not going to get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3347	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3350	About the report that has just arrived, which says something about the dropout during education: the council said that it is okay that someone ends, but it can't be okay that after two years had 40 pst. of the students in Bergen completed this new 4-year education, and on a country-by-country basis had 22pst. ended after one year and 30 pst. ended after two years. Obviously, if this is going to be the trend ahead, and if students go half the course of education and take up places for others who should have gone there, and who had the intention of becoming teachers, we're not going to be able to train the teachers we need. Will the Council of State turn some of these GNIST funds invested in the applicant phase today, into the phase in which the students are actually in education to motivate them along the way or to take action that will allow us to get more through the education? It's alarming that so many ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3357	I fully agree – 30 pst. is too much. That means that we recruit some students who are either not motivated, do not know what they're going to, or are not properly followed up during the study. This is especially the last thing we can do about making teacher training work better. That's exactly why we have this follow-up research that makes us get the knowledge it's now referred to along the way. Of course, we should be very careful about what we can contribute to the institutions. We have raised the funding of teacher training to one category, so that we have given a better financial basis for this to be a practical and relevant education. But we have to calculate some non-responses, and I think that's right, but not in the order of 30 pst. Then we have to get the quality of education, so we're sure that more finish. But I think the things that are addressed in this Document 8 proposal are important for precisely motivating for later, because it is about career paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3364	Yes, there has been talk about these career paths, and who should be responsible for designing and creating them, and I'm going to be a little stunned when I hear here that you think you're going to make each of your career paths in each municipality. Does the Council really not believe that this is also a question of national policy? It's about getting some leads to see that system: if you're learning, you know that career path you can expect to pursue, whether you're employed in Finnmark, Oslo or around, or does the council really think this is something that the state should abdicate from and not think anything about?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3369	I think I just said the opposite, that the contact, dialogue and common meeting place and discussion we have between the partners in the GNIST cooperation are at the central level. It is with the employee organisations, the employers’ organisations – KS – and the educational institutions and student organisations. That's what's been our forum to discuss this, because if we can manage to agree on some good central advice that can be implemented, I think it would have been very interesting. But it would also have been interesting – on the way there – if the municipalities and counties took responsibility for testing out some systems, or think: How can we attract labour that we would like to have at school? There are many possibilities. I actually believe that there are approaches here from both sides, and that it would be very interesting if more states and municipalities were thinking about what they themselves would focus on, thinking about something in the direction of getting this into the pay system. They're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3376	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3381	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate, with a lot of good words about the teaching profession, because I have it in me. That doesn't mean teachers should just be nice, good, cool, play the toughest hip hop videos or do the funniest things. This means that teachers should be able to take knowledge from a high level and disseminate it at a level that students understand. That means we also have to work to find the good people -- those who can take what they have in their heads and talk in a way that students understand. I fully agree with what the Minister of Knowledge says, because not everyone is going to be a teacher. It's the most competent people, the ones who are able to communicate the knowledge they're sitting on, that's going to be teachers. If they're a little weird, very cool or very nice -- as long as they can communicate what they can, it's the most important thing. I'm glad we're about to raise the status of the teaching profession. Several will now become teachers, and the teacher's study has become more popular. I am proud of both the job done by the Minister of Knowledge to raise the status of the profession I have chosen, and it makes me proud to learn that I know that more and more people want to be the same as me. We need more people who have it in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3392	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3407	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3416	It is important that all parents and children have the opportunity to be as together as possible in the first year. It's true for those who are at work, and it's true for those who are students. With good organisation, it is possible to adapt life as a student also to having responsibility for children. Compared to other countries, Norway has good arrangements for students who have children. There are several special schemes for students with children in the current education support scheme. Students who have children under education are given parental leave, who have many similarities with the parental pension scheme in their working life. This is a scheme in which all educational support is provided as a grant up to 44 weeks after birth. Student parents have the freedom to distribute this period between themselves. Students with children also have the right to a dependant grant in addition to normal education support. In 2008, the first paragraph of Section 4-5 of the Higher Education Act was amended to ensure equal rights for all students who have children during their studies. This provision entitles all students to leave from the studies during pregnancy and to care for children. Furthermore, it is clarified in the law that the student still has the status of student at the institution while he is at home with leave, and he also has the right to resume his studies at the same level as before leave. This has been important for how institutions behave towards students who have children. This provision also allows the Ministry to provide a regulation on the rules for the postpartum examination, and some institutions already have local rules to that effect. By law, universities and colleges are obliged to facilitate the resumption of postgraduate studies as soon as possible after birth. In 2008, changes were also made to student relations regulations, so that students on maternity leave can choose to pay holiday fees, giving access to the many welfare services offered by the student community even during the leave period. Education support must also be seen in the context of other welfare benefits for students with children, such as cheaper dorms, student housing and student rebates, one-off maternity benefits, child allowances, child allowances and transitional benefits for lone dependants. We have noticed that parents are given parental leave during the summer months to those who have children during the summer after completing education. A large proportion of students who have worked alongside the studies will be entitled to parental leave equivalent to the income they have had, and there is reason to believe that some students who have children at the end of the studies will have had income to receive parental leave from Nav. Nevertheless, there is a group, despite all these schemes, which are at the intersection of two welfare schemes and which could be at risk of falling between two chairs. It is important to improve the situation for those who have children between studies and work. Therefore, this issue in the border area between different welfare systems should be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3433	We in the Progress Party are committed to ensuring that the country's students have good arrangements that contribute to the proper functioning of the study situation. We need to ensure that we have good framework conditions, well-functioning financial arrangements and flexible solutions, which allow students to focus their everyday lives on acquiring knowledge in the study rather than other things. But at the same time, we also believe that equal rights to higher education are important. That means that we have to make sure that anyone who wants and is able to do so is given the opportunity to take higher education. This requires, for example: good financial assumptions for students today. Here, of course, student loans and scholarships are important in order to achieve the goal we have in the Progress Party of reintroducing the full-time student and ensuring that everyone, regardless of the economic background, actually gets the opportunity to study full-time. But apart from the desire of the Progress Party and the struggle for higher student funding, there is also another important topic that we are dealing with here, namely the economic situation of students who either have children before, have children during the study period or become pregnant during the study period and are born immediately afterwards. As the representative Yrvin had in mind, we have a lot of good arrangements today for students who have children or have children during the study period – everything from good leave arrangements, extra financial support, the organisation of examination discharges, student children's gardens, etc. – which help to enable women to take higher education regardless of their situation in life and family. It is incredibly important to ensure that everyone has equal rights and access to education. But one thing that is far from good enough is the arrangements for those students who get pregnant at the end of the course and give birth immediately afterwards. The representative Yrvin was concerned that this is a challenge we have to look at further, but that's not good enough. Here we have a group that is not large – there are a few that apply – but just as fully it is incredibly important to make sure that this small group actually gets good financial arrangements that enable them to survive financially. The situation today is such that those who are at work, full-time workers, etc., have their rights through the fear of the people and receive financial support at birth through it. Furthermore, there are those in the middle of the course who have access to financial support schemes through the Loan Fund and who receive their support. Unfortunately, those who give birth shortly after the end of the course, before six months, do not have access to the financial arrangements either through popular interest or through the Loan Fund. Then we see that there are a few students falling between two chairs, and they end up in a situation where they don't get any financial support. Then it's not good enough to look further at this. In fact, you have to look at the first proposal that the left comes with, that is to say, the need to secure financial support for the students concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3446	Does the representative, Mr Hanekamhaug, wish to take up the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3449	Yes, President. With this we want to promote that proposal in the vote where the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3454	This proposal was then taken up by the representative of Hanekamhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3457	We have over time, including the current ageing period, made decisions in the Stortinget to ensure social rights for students. The NSO, on behalf of the students, believes that we still have something to correct in order for the rights to be on the level of society for the rest, and that is a debate we are guaranteed to come back to. The issue today, however, is not about the rights as a student, but about the rights, or rather, the lack of this, in the period from one end of the studies and until similar benefits are attainable from popular belief. Once the studies have been completed and the exam has been completed, the individual is moved from the Loan Fund regime to the Nav and the People's Back. Then there are the rules of popular fear, and for some rights, this means vesting periods. The challenge with students who give birth shortly after graduation and before they have earned Nav's rights may not be so great in scope, but for that matter, of course, it's a brutal reality that arises. The left shall be praised for identifying solutions for this group, which should be agreed to look at. We experience relatively often that individuals turn to us as big business representatives on issues where they experience falling between two, or more, chairs in the public welfare systems. It's bad to hear these stories. Sometimes there are misunderstandings or logical explanations. Sometimes it seems completely unreasonable, and in trying to raise such issues to find a solution, I have always felt powerless. It hurts. Those we are looking at solutions for here today are not a strong and large group standing in Eidsvoll's place and demonstrating. They need us to take the matter for them anyway. That is why we are proposing today that the government should look at an arrangement for those falling between different welfare systems. So what's going to be the solution? Yes, we have to admit that the simple answer is not open today. I believe there is a great deal of consensus that once you have completed the studies, and the liability of the Loan Fund has ceased, it would not be right to spend money devoted to supporting students for this, at least not in addition to any time-limited transitional arrangements that are already in place. So it's Nav's arrangements and the public's reluctance to do so. This means that this group must be seen in conjunction with others who also give birth without having earned full rights to parental leave. However, there is one major difference: these others have not had such a right immediately in advance. That's what makes the big difference. It is therefore necessary to establish a separate system to take care of these. That's what we're asking for. I notice that both the Council of State in its reply letter to the Committee and some representatives pay a lot of attention to the arrangements in the Loan Fund for students who give birth during the studies. These are good arrangements, but as I said before, that is not the case here. I also need to make it clear that the proposals contained in the referral, which relate to study funding and support schemes from the Loan Fund, do not receive Right’s support today, precisely because, in the opinion of the Right, they need to be looked at in a context in which study funding is fully assessed. Finally, I would like to say that I hope the Council of State will follow up on the positive conclusion of the letter of reply to the Committee and will continue to look favourably at proposals that can improve the situation for those who have children between studies and work. The parties to the Government want the proposal to be annexed to the Protocol. An overall opposition is ready to order feedback from the government. Governments have clear signals of support and can only initiate efforts to find the right solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3476	There's going to be a slight change in the advertised list of speakers. The next speaker is the representative of Trine Skei Grande, then the representative of Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3479	Thank you very much, both for the President and for the Christian People's Party. The Left Party and the Christian Party are very happy with each other, and this is a matter on which the Left Party and the Christian Party have been together. The Christian People's Party must have a lot of 'cure' for fighting for it. What surprises me today is that this is something we've agreed on in the past, and that I thought would come. A unanimous committee has written that ‘...it is important to improve the situation of those who have children between studies and work and to ask for a closer look at this issue in the borderline between different welfare systems’.» So I thought this was about to be in the box. We've discussed it several times before. I don't understand why the government parties think this is so difficult to vote for. This isn't a big group. This is not a great horde of people, but someone who falls between two welfare systems, which we believe is important to have. This hall has talked so many times about these are important groups to take care of, and for which it is important to facilitate. So I'm actually a little surprised that we shouldn't get any more support here today, because this is the grip that I think should have been taken. There's a lot of commitment in student organisations to doing something about these welfare arrangements, because it helps to provide security to those who are under education. We have tabled a proposal today – which we naturally support. The Christian People's Party has also put forward a few other good proposals, which we really think are good, but for which we do not have coverage in our budgets. We are simply promoting proposals in this Chamber which we also promote in our alternative budgets. That is why we will ensure that there is consistency in that vote. Otherwise we will continue to work on the proposals made by the Christian People's Party. This is one of the gaps we have in our welfare systems, as I think it is important to get the seal, and that is one of the arrangements I think it is very bad reasoning that you can't vote for. I'm addressing proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3496	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3500	A goal must be to ensure practical and financial support for students who become pregnant so that they can both complete pregnancy and continue to have the most normal progress in the studies. As the Christian People's Party has talked about several times from this pulpit, society gives quite contradictory signals when it comes to women and pregnancy. It is expected that women will be able to have children early. At the same time, we've made arrangements that add up to the exact opposite. Fortunately, more women now take higher education than before. Several women take long courses of education, which means that they must be able to have the opportunity to have children while they are still studying, or in the transition between studies and jobs. Lone mothers must also have a real right to take the training they themselves want and need. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, better organisation for student families is needed in order to achieve greater equality between male and female students. A right should also be granted to the possibility of a paper issue for students. The Christian People's Party also believes that other and better study funding schemes should be put in place, such as: introducing 12-month study support for parents with children. It may be quite difficult to have a part-time job or a summer job that provides enough income during the summer months, as many kindergartens are also closed for this group. Children of student parents must also have the right and the opportunity to take a summer vacation with their parents. Then to the contents of the proposal from the left. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there are several parties involved in these matters. Greater flexibility must be demonstrated in the transition between studies and parental leave. The date of the appointment rarely follows the academic year and the semester breakdowns. It is difficult for students' parents to come back to the study in the middle of a semester or to start a job at the right time, so that these schemes go together. This requires both flexibility and organisation. In addition, I would like to remind you once again of the funding scheme for the Student Children's Gardens, which was transferred to the municipal budgets. The rapporteur, Mr Yrvin, pointed out that cheap student kindergartens are an important welfare offer for this group. However, this transfer from the Ministry of Culture’s budgets to other budgets has resulted in a significant decrease in grants to many of these student children’s gardens. Now you start to see the consequences of this in several of the student children's gardens. SiO has e.g. have to put down 95 kindergartens. This is serious for those students who are dependent on the offer given by the student children's gardens. Student kindergartens are different from other kindergartens because they take into account the situation of the student parents. The Christian People's Party also believes it is essential to have a student children's garden offering that is adapted to the student's needs in relation to the academic year. Any student wishing to do so should be able to obtain an appropriate nursery place for their children. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal, supported by the opposition, to improve transitional arrangements between studies and parental leave. We think that's very important to get in place. In addition, we have presented proposals that the Christian People's Party believes are important, linked to the study funding scheme. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 3 and 4, which the Christian People's Party has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3519	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3522	This theme is not an unknown theme. The Committee has discussed this in many rounds in the past. There is a problem that the student organisations have probably raised with everyone here in the hall and with me. It is important to provide facilities for students who have children during their studies, and to strengthen education support for students with children. It is mentioned as an objective in Soria Moria II, which is therefore the declaration of this government. Luckily, we already have good loan arrangements in the Loan Fund regulations for students who have children: Student parents can receive full training support as a grant for 44 weeks after birth, they can receive extra grants for support, and they have extended entitlement to sick leave in sick children, in support of delay in education and to an extended ceiling on how long the aid can be granted. All these issues have been issues in the Stortinget in the past. The government has also made some improvements, and until now we have been busy making changes for those who have special needs among student parents. Among other things, we have increased the period of entitlement to parental leave and increased the age limit of entitlement to sick leave when the children get sick. In the current budget, we also received a few minor measures that are important for a few who previously risked standing without rights. This applies to those who are born before term and to students who are born late in the year of education and who have not applied for parental leave in the ordinary application for training. I believe it is necessary to continue working to improve education support for students with children. At the same time, I want to stress that students with children are a large group of different economies and different needs for adaptations. The new measures should be targeted in order to meet those students with the greatest need. The aim is for students to have a financial means to have children while they are studying and to be able at the same time to complete the education without undue delay. Students who have children either just before or shortly after the training period may not be at risk of receiving parental leave from the Loan Fund or parental leave from Nav. This situation is due to the fact that only work is considered as a basis for parental leave, and only training giving entitlement to support is considered as a basis for parental leave. This implies, as the Committee points out, that some persons receive only one-off benefits at birth and thus fall between two chairs. In this context, the Committee calls for this issue to be addressed in the border area between the two welfare systems. The parental allowance shall provide for students who have children while studying, so that they do not lose out financially and are therefore left with more educational loans than their fellow students. Therefore, extending the parental leave scheme to a period that continues even after the study period itself would violate the basic principle that the applicant must be a student in order to be entitled to training aid. On the other hand, the inclusion of parental leave as a basis for entitlement to parental leave by reason of ethnic origin will also be a violation of the principle that the right to parental leave has been acquired through work. If persons who have been trained are to be exempted from this principle, others may claim that there is discrimination between groups which have a relatively equal relationship with the profession. These are the dilemmas we have when we're going to evaluate solutions for those that fall between these chairs. I am absolutely in favour of proposals that can improve the situation for those who have children between studies and work and who have not developed the right to parental leave through Nav. That is why I am looking at these issues in the border area between the different welfare systems. But we have to think a little bit more about how we find solutions here, because other groups will be able to feel very quickly that they are in similar situations to students who have children, either just before or just after they finish the studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3557	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3563	Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3571	A total of 36 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 2-19, by Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 20-25, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 26–36, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 27, 28, 32, 33, 35 and 36, from the left. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased support to non-governmental organisations working with integration and prioritisation of the integration efforts of non-governmental organisations towards women’.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the Storting with changes to the Labour Environment Act so that the use of temporary employment is allowed slightly more in the private sector, so that the threshold for entry for immigrants and young people is lowered.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for local beauty resources to be designed in such a way that schools with a particularly high proportion of pupils with a migrant background are provided with sufficient resources to have fewer pupils per teacher, to strengthen the teaching aid system and to provide school health services.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the grant schemes in order to allow schools to offer Norwegian training to pupils’ supervisors.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the further training of teachers in multicultural understanding and communication.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives to recruit more teachers with a minority background.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3629	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29 and 30, from the left. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of an anonymous application in the public sector so that only the qualifications can be obtained from the application.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the organisation of mentoring systems and networking areas in the world of work, both for highly educated immigrants and workers with special needs on the way out to work.’ The right has notified that they support the proposals. Votering The proposals were accepted by 84 to 17 votes. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.22.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3651	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 34, from the left. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to evaluate and strengthen the Norwegian training and introduction programme of the day.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that students who come to the country without completing primary school do not be transferred from receiving classes to ordinary classes until they are in good control of Norwegian.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3675	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to streamline the process of evaluating and approving foreign education.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3694	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21 and 22, from the right. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a model with prior approval of companies.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the implementation of the Blue Card model from the EU Blue Card in Norway.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3718	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 23, from the right. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of language training as a right for unemployed workers from EEA countries.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for free core time in kindergarten for children while one or both parents participate in the introduction scheme for newly arrived immigrants and refugees.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3742	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24 and 25, from the right. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with a proposal that the language mapping system for 4-year-olds at the health centre be applied throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a national knowledge base for the recognition of foreign education.’ The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3766	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for work to be undertaken by both the public and the private sectors to make clear demands on foreign labour language skills, especially for those covered by the Introduction Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that persons who have not completed the introduction programme or who have completed and who live on public benefits are faced with work, education or training in progress, such as supplementary education in Norwegian and social knowledge.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to ensure a level playing field in health investigations in order to detect genital mutilation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the many action plans put in place to prevent coerciveness, sexual mutilation and violence originating from honour concepts, in order to measure the impact of the measures individually and in an overall context.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to lower the threshold for the obligation to notify the occupational groups covered by the gender mutilation law.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to impose an obligation on asylum recipients to inform them that gender discrimination is prohibited in Norway, what this prohibition is against and why gender mutilation is prohibited in Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a system whereby all those who come to Norway from countries where sexual harassment is practised must sign that they are aware that sexual mutilation is punishable in Norway and that we have a criminal sanctioned renunciation obligation.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that sexual mutilation becomes a topic under the Health Station Programme for Newborns.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that gender impairment becomes a topic during the school start-up survey.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that those who work in the school health service are schooled in terms of sexual mutilation, who are at risk of being exposed to it and how to talk to parents about it.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to introduce mandatory health checks on infants with a view to disclosing genital mutilation.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for parental accountability in the event of gender impairment and in the event of death.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose measures to ensure that persons involved in sexual mutilation are prosecuted.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide for the development of easily understandable information material for kindergarten staff and school staff at primary and secondary school, on how to proceed if they suspect an impending sexual mutilation, if they suspect that sexual mutilation has been carried out, or have revealed sexual mutilation.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take the initiative in international cooperation, so that it can be possible to prosecute offences against sexual mutilation, and to amend current laws so that criminal offences can be committed abroad even in cases where sexual mutilation is not prohibited in the country where the offence is committed.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit the necessary proposals so that those who wish to acquire Norwegian citizenship on application must have completed Norwegian training and have passed the examination in writing and orally.’; Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals so that testimonies from compulsory training in Norwegian and social knowledge are successfully passed on in writing and orally by reference to the level of skills of the participants in the course.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that those who wish to acquire Norwegian citizenship on application must have completed social education and pass compulsory testing and that such training is carried out in Norwegian.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3871	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a thorough evaluation of all action plans for the better use of the competences of immigrants.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3906	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a total of ten proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit the necessary proposals with a view to changing the requirements for residence in Norway as a basis for a permanent residence permit from 3 to 6 years of age.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary proposals to reduce the possibility of a permanent residence permit for foreign citizens in Norway if a prison sentence has been imposed for at least 1 year, and to introduce standstill requirements in the event of minor offences, such as exoneration of charges, conditional prison sentence or unconditional prison sentence not exceeding 1 year in total, treatment sentence or detention sentence.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests that the necessary proposals be made by the government to ensure that non-residents who have incurred debt to the public, such as repayable benefits under the social services law, pre-paid child contributions, parental benefit to kindergarten, too much housing aid paid with more, are not entitled to a permanent residence permit.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals so that, in order to be entitled to a permanent residence permit, foreign citizens must have been in full-time employment for 2,5 out of the last 3 years and must not have been unemployed or receiving social benefits or similar under the Social Services Act and the Introduction Act for more than 6 months during the last 3 years.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests that the necessary proposals be made by the government leading to the signing of a declaration of integration and active citizenship by foreign citizens, or by other means to have expressed their acceptance of its contents, in order to be eligible for a permanent residence permit.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that foreign nationals have passed a test in Norwegian 2, or equivalent or higher, in order to be eligible for a permanent residence permit.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that foreign nationals who have active citizenship in Norway through active participation in voluntary or other activities for more than 1 year are credited with applying for a permanent residence permit.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to put in place a reward system to target the integration of foreign citizens and set a good standard for integration, in order to obtain permanent residence permits in Norway.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that family reunification of foreign nationals with spouses/partners and/or children living abroad is subject to compliance with the conditions proposed for granting permanent residence permits under the proposals from 1 to 7.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote the necessary proposals to ensure that persons coming to Norway through family immigration are not granted the right to further family reunification.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e3982	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 4, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement the necessary measures to improve the protection of vulnerable ICT infrastructure’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4009	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a real pool of political and administrative responsibilities for all major government ICT projects in one department that are empowered to exercise a global strategic ICT management across different departments.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure better management of the individual state ICT project, with priority being given to the build-up of competences and the establishment of incentives for cost-effective solutions, which are reasonable to manage. The Ministry responsible for ICT management should be part of the project organisations with an owner’s perspective and should be a driving force for optimum use of the funds.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4035	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, saying, ‘The government is asked to ensure that more comprehensive requirements are made for the implementation of cost-benefit analyses in state-owned ICT projects, so that the costs and complexity of the projects can be minimised.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4149	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tor-Arne Stroem on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV Proposal No. 2, by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Bjørn Lødemel on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 27 June 2008 71 on planning and construction proceedings, § 11-7 nr. 2 is replaced by the following: 2. Transport facilities and technical infrastructure Purposes: road, rail, airport, port, main network for bicycles, public networks, public nodes, parking spaces, technical infrastructure and area routes or motorways for bar or snow-covered land.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4186	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to open up a pilot project to enable the municipality of Balestrand to set up a pilot project in which, in its spatial plan, the municipality can regulate the area of motorised transport by belt drive in a defined trajectory by planning and building law.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4234	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:11 L and Document 8:15 LS [[2012-2013]] [[2012-2013]] The left has announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 54 votes were cast against and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.31.28]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4249	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4254	I got to the votering plant that I did not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4259	Is there anyone else who had problems? Yes, we'll take the last vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4276	During the debate, Mr Arnesen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:17 S [[2012-2013]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4318	During the debate, Mr Skumsvoll put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During the spring 2013 session, the government is asked to present a case on the regional and local electricity transmission network and on the challenges and tasks facing the network companies in the coming years and on proposals for measures that can provide an efficient and forward-looking network structure in Norway with fewer and more robust network companies than today.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4337	President, there was a mistake here!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4342	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4347	All right. So let's do the voting again. Then we'll have to follow!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4422	The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4435	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4443	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 3 and 4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more career paths to be provided by the government in the school sector, as well as measures to increase the number of doctoral students entering school.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the review and modernisation of the categories of teaching staff, so that the categories of posts reflect better competence and professional background. Work shall be carried out in consultation with the partners in the school sector.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced that they support the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4479	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a pilot project with an additional salary subsidy for doctoral graduates who teach basic training in the context of the revised 2013 national budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4498	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:27 S [[2012-2013]] The left has announced that they are now supporting the proposal of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4521	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Mette Hanekamhaug on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 3 and 4, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked for 12 months to come. study funding for students with children, by increasing the total funding for this group.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the one-off aid to 2 G and to convert it into a monthly payment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4555	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to reintroduce support for the student cooperation student children’s gardens in connection with the next year’s budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4574	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a financial support scheme for students who have children immediately after the studies and who are currently falling between different welfare schemes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4594	The case concerns the second consideration of amendments to the Tax Act 40. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-21.ana.ud1877e4636	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
