ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e90	The representatives Karin S. Woldseth, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Susanne Bratli, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: From 27 May to 29 May to take part in meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Izmir, Turkey from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Marit Nybakk on 27 and 28 May to chair a delegation from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Belgrade and Pristina from the representatives of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Vigdis Giltun, Per Olaf Lundtägen and Torfinn Opheim on leave from 27 May to 30 May – all to take part in a study tour with the Nordic Council delegation to Novgorod, Russia from the Workers' Group on welfare permits for the representative Sonja Mangt from 27 May to 30 May until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Knut Tønnes SteenersenFor Buskerud County: Eli Hovd PrestegårdenFor Oslo: Khalid MahmoodFor Rogaland County: Terje Halleland and Laila ThorsenFor Vestfold County: Heidi ØrnloFor Østfold County: Erlend Wiborg
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e174	Knut Tönnes Steenersen, Eli Hovd Prestegården, Khalid Mahmood, Terje Halleland, Laila Thorsen, Heidi Ørnlo and Erlend Wiborg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e182	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e196	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e205	The amendments we are about to adopt today in the Patient and User Rights Act will help to clarify the access of healthcare services to take decisions on the use of alert and localisation technologies in relation to patients and users who are completely or partly lacking consent. The use of such technologies by health and care services is low today, and a significant reason is probably the strict data protection requirements in particular. personal data law. Here it is stated that consent shall be a voluntary, explicit and informed declaration by the data subject that he or she accepts the processing of data concerning himself or herself. In practice, the provision of informed consent means that healthcare professionals should ensure that patients and users have understood what they agree to. Especially in the case of persons with acquired cognitive failure and dementia, it may be a major challenge to make sure that the message is understood and accepted. We also know that the day-form of some with this type of diagnosis may vary, and that therefore an assessment of their consent competence must be carried out almost continuously. Denmark has had good experience in changing its legislation, so that patients with totally or partly lack of consent have been able to have access to localisation technology if the patient does not oppose it. Such a change is obviously a slight weakening of the more rigid formulation of informed consent, but here it is important to look at what might be in the user's interest. The results in Denmark are that patients and users have increased autonomy, increased security, improved quality of life, increased social participation and increased mobility. This illustrates, in my opinion, that well-being technology – used correctly – involves good privacy by strengthening the individual’s ability to maintain their own privacy. The SINTEF report Safety tracks from 2013 refers to different projects in Norway that come to many of the same experiences that one has seen in Denmark. The undersigned participated in the promotion of a proposal for a representative in the spring 2012 spring session to make changes to the Norwegian legislation in line with what had been done in Denmark. Last June, the Health Directorate called for legislative changes as we had proposed, and last autumn the government sent out the bill change at the hearing. I noticed that the Minister of Health in December characterised our proposal and the debate about it as a warm-up band in relation to the concert of the government in this matter. When you look at the case, the government's legislative amendment now reminds us of a post-ludium on the proposal for a representative. I'm glad we're now getting a total staggering on these legislative changes. It is an overall committee which supports the main observations in this matter. The Committee points out that new technologies can support both patients, users, relatives and employees in the health and care sectors. However, it is emphasised that technology can never replace human contact and care, but that it will be an important complement in a comprehensive health and care perspective. The privacy challenges are also discussed in the vote. Although to some extent the law allows for use also to patients who oppose it, this is very strictly regulated, and the Committee stresses the importance of using confidence-building measures. The Committee also points out that technical and ethical considerations must be considered on a case-by-case basis as well as strict data storage requirements. I know there are a lot of service providers out there who have been waiting for this change in law, but I want to encourage everyone to take good care of the requirements of using the technology. I know that someone thinks that there is going to be a lot of money now by equipping all the dents with a GPS, and that you should then sit on a watchroom and follow up on bright dots on a screen. It's not like that, and it's not going to be like that. We now have the opportunity to reduce the more than 1,000 resource-intensive explorations carried out each year, saving patients and relatives for worries and suffering. I've seen how brutal and fast Alzheimer's can also hit people younger than me, and I've seen what joy a former superior I knew, had of his GPS when he was hit by dementia. The law is now being clarified, and it will limit the extensive and often illegal use of locked doors by our institutions. I look forward to a number of patients and users now having a completely different freedom and sense of mastery, and I believe that it can also help delay the progression of dementia. I know that, therefore, many people want to welcome this amendment. Then I see that the Left has distributed a proposal in the Chamber to this matter, which goes with the consent of the closest relatives in relation to people over 18 years of age. I expect the Left itself to argue for that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e226	There is a broad consensus on this matter, and it does not look like there will be any major debate today. This does not mean that the matter is irrelevant – on the contrary. The rapporteur, Mr Gåsvatn, has explained in an excellent way what this is all about, and how important it will be for caring people and their relatives. It's about security, freedom and mastery. The Labour Party looks forward to a wide-ranging debate on new approaches and technologies in care, including warning and localisation technologies, when dealing with Meld. St. 29 for 2012–2013 on tomorrow’s care. We are pleased with the broad support given to the government's bill, and at the same time we are concerned that new technology can never replace human contact. It must always be a supplement, it must always be used in a way that does not provide false security, and it must always be used in a way that is in the interests of the caregiver. We will come back to this, as I said, in the discussion of the care notification on 17 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e233	The Committee has made a unanimous recommendation, and the Left agrees with most of the vote and with the legislative proposal. I have, on behalf of the Left, nevertheless submitted a proposal for a small adjustment, and I will come back to this. In my opinion, there are in particular two issues that are important with this amendment of the law. One is that new technologies can be re-used and put into service in such a way as to create clean and safe conditions of use. I have to remind you that it's not just older people who are hit by some kind of dementia. My mother was as far as 60 years old and looked something like I do now, when she was hit. She was cracking and fast and didn't see the least confused out, but she was silent. My father had to take good care of me. When he died, she could no longer live at home. At that time, in the 1980s, it contained locked doors. Patients had to be followed when they were outdoors, and if no one had time, they did not come out. Even if you don't lock the doors today, the restrictions and anxiety are there. I'm very happy that today we have the opportunity to give these people some of the freedom back, that they don't have to depend on someone having time to follow them, to get out. For relatives who have users living at home, this also gives a form of freedom – freedom from the constant fear that the loved one will take a trip and not come back. I have so much faith in people -- both at home and employees in hospitals -- that this is not going to be a sleep cushion, but an opportunity to shift focus, to take focus away from the anxiety of what can happen and over to see the person. It is then important to have clear rules of use. It is essential for the proper functioning of the measure. We need to feel safe for the user or patient, but also for the information to be used only for what is necessary for the patient. I think it's well explained these issues in the setting. However, the left needs to clarify the basis for implementing this measure, so that misunderstandings can be avoided. I have been a relative myself and believe that it is both correct and important that a person obtains his/her consent when introducing technical devices to track a patient. Getting information from the closest relatives about what the patient or user would have wanted seems to me to be something hypothetical. I therefore propose that the following sentence be inserted as the second sentence in the first paragraph: ‘Where possible, consent shall be obtained from the immediate family member of the patient.’;» Similarly, the last sentence is deleted in other paragraphs. With this I address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e255	The representative, Inger Johanne Bjørnstad, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e258	It is tempting to say that they are using new welfare technologies outside the staging room – for all age groups, we are hoping. [[Noise from demonstrators on the outside of Stortinget.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e263	The president thought of the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e266	The legislative proposal now under consideration by Stortinget will facilitate the provision of warning and localisation technologies to caregivers without consent. It will contribute to better well-being, more security and better follow-up of health services. At its best, the use of technology is a means of improving quality of life. Recent studies to which it has been shown, for example: The Safe Track project, where SINTEF has been a research partner, shows that the use of GPS solutions has provided increased safety for caregivers, relatives and staff. Several relatives report that the use of GPS has made it easier to manage everyday life so that a user can stay longer at home. The use of such technologies has been reported to use greater freedom to travel on their own initiative, and many relatives experience it as a major relief and as a absence of coercion. The studies also show that GPS can be a tool to contribute to physical activity by allowing persons with oriental defects to continue their journey. Staff report an increased awareness and understanding of the importance of physical activity also for people with dementia. Many users and relatives demonstrate that using GPS provides better chances of mastering everyday life and of continuing to live independently, despite the development of disease and disability. That is why I am very pleased that a joint committee is joining the bill. I think this proposal gives security to those who have to experience that technology can be something that gives insecurity. As a committee, I am concerned that new technologies should not replace human contact, but be a complement to personal assistance, traditional aids and the organisation of the living environment. Furthermore, it is important that technology use is sound, so that it does not provide false security. The use of new technologies shall always be in the best interests of the caregiver. These considerations are, in my opinion, well taken care of by the terms and observations of the bill in the legislative proposal. The development of welfare technology solutions provides new opportunities for healthcare and care, and I am sure that it will be an important part of the response to how this service can solve its tasks in the coming years. In order to exploit these possibilities, it is necessary to provide for greater use of such technological solutions by the service. In Report. St. 29 for 2012–2003, Tomorrow’s care, a national programme for the development and implementation of welfare technologies in the healthcare sector has been announced. In addition, in the revised national budget, we have already proposed to allocate 55 million. kr to a programme for the development and introduction of such technologies and innovation, so we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e281	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e295	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e304	Today, we are going to make two important and mutually independent changes to the Biotechnology Act: we are opening up HIV positives to have children in a safe way, and we are making it clear that individuals should not be penalised under the Biotechnology Act. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that new biotechnology has been introduced gradually in Norway. Mona Susanne Tetlie was Norway’s first born so-called probationary child in 1984, and in 2006 she herself became the mother of a little girl at Oppdal’s birthplace. She is one of many, many examples that new technology has created joys, new lives and families, and has helped to increase our number in Norway. It's basically good that people have children. The first amendment opens the way for HIV positives to have children without the risk of infection from natural fertilisation. Couples with HIV or other serious sexually transmitted chronic diseases will be able to have children by assisted fertilisation. HIV is a serious chronic disease, but no longer fatal as before. New drugs, fortunately, make most HIV positives in Norway healthy and live good lives. Many want to have children. The risk of transmission of infection to the partner and to the child may be greatly reduced if the couple receive assisted fertilisation. As the Biotechnology Act is today, hospitals do not have the opportunity to offer these couples this kind of treatment. That's what we're now changing. For the Workers' Party, it has been essential that the legislative changes have broad support in the professional environments, that assisted fertilisation be offered on the basis of a thorough individual assessment, and the main theme of the assessment must be the risk of transmission of infection to the child. When the man is HIV positive, the risk is almost zero. When the woman is HIV positive, the risk is less than 1 pst. if she is receiving medical treatment and not breast-feeding. It is important to remember that no pregnancy is without risk, and for us it is also important to point out that the option for many healthy HIV positives will be – and is – to have children by the nature method. Since 2000, no HIV-positive children have been born in Norway. It's not obvious, and we're glad that today we're making changes to the laws that give HIV positive parents greater security. I have to comment briefly on the comments of the Progress Party on this part of the proposal. The lot argues that ‘public funds’ are to be used for assisted fertilisation for persons who are ‘fertilising’. I find this reasoning difficult to follow, and it seems quite brutal. How is it better for children and their parents that HIV positives are forced to take the risk of having children without medical care? The human cost of the birth of HIV-positive children will be significant, and whether it will save public expenditure is difficult to imagine. The second amendment clarifies the applicable law. Section 7-5 of the Biotechnology Act criminalises or contributes to a violation of the law. There are doubts as to how far this criminal liability extends – only against health professionals, or can patients also be punished? There are also doubts about individuals who help people to make use of offers that are legal abroad, but not allowed in Norway, to be punished. In 2004, the Workers' Group asked the Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätten about this and was then given clarification of the legal understanding we are now using: the intention has not been to punish individuals. The Labour Party believes it is right to maintain the possibility of penalising professional actors involved in the violation of the Biotechnology Act, but we are committed to clarify that private individuals should not be punished. We record that the Christian People's Party also wants to travel by this crossroads a broad surrogate bat. To that there are several things to say. Firstly, the large group of women travelling abroad for assisted fertilisation is likely to be lonesome. Secondly, there is a broad consensus that surrogati should not be allowed in Norway. Surrogati raises issues that need to be addressed through international cooperation. The Labour Party is committed to Norway's active participation in international work. Thirdly, this bill has not intended to investigate or finalise controversial issues. The changes in the law only mean that the current practice of the law is continued. The Labour Party fully supports the legislative changes proposed by the Government. For us, it is about security and freedom, for children and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e325	After a long and thorough discussion in the Group of the Party of Advancement, we have come to the conclusion that, as so often before, a previously unanimous principle against new policies will be at the heart of the previously adopted policy of the Storting. In such cases, of course – as always – you have to consider whether changing will mean so much difference that it will make sense to make this change again. In the past, there has been a broad consensus in this room that assisted fertilisation should be reserved for couples where one or both parties are not fertilising. Many suggest that unfortunately there is a possibility that HIV-infected children could also be born in the future, regardless of the introduction of the possibility of obtaining assisted fertilisation. However, the fact that, fortunately, no HIV-infected children have been born in Norway since 2000 — under current legislation — shows that, hopefully, the need for action is limited. The practice in Sweden is that assisted fertilisation is offered in cases where the man is HIV positive, but where the woman is HIV positive, such an offer is not given because of the potential risk of transmission from the woman to the child. In Denmark, the virus is required to be removed before insemination. However, even then, there is still a risk — relatively small enough — of transmission of infection from mother to child through pregnancy, during birth and, where appropriate, through breast-feeding. On this occasion, the Progress Party is also somewhat concerned about the increased public responsibility that would have to arise as a result of such an event in the course of this legislative change. We therefore want to continue the principle that there is a lack of fertility based on the offer of assisted fertilisation, in general. Against this background, the Progress Party will vote against the proposal to amend Section 2-3 of the Biotechnology Act. But with regard to the second change, namely § 7-5 new second paragraph, the Progress Party – and I am pleased about that – is part of the majority. We agree with the government, which believes that it has never been intended to punish patients and/or individuals who contribute to an act that is legal abroad but is not legal in Norway. The legislative proposal suggests that the proposed amendment simply clarifies the law in force. We therefore support the intentions of the government's proposal for a new §7-5 of the Act on the Human Medical Use of Biotechnology etc. However, we agree with the Norwegian Bar Association's hearing opinion, which has a different legal text they believe will be even more precise. We will therefore be allowed to present the proposal referred to in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e344	The representative Per Arne Olsen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e347	The right has come to the conclusion that we support the government's proposed legislative change in the field of assisted fertilisation, and we agree with the clarification in the law as to who can be punished under the provisions of the law. The first question was also a key issue in the previous Biotechnology paper. At the time, there was significantly greater uncertainty about that method, and we therefore chose to proceed with a ban. The principle that this should only be given to persons where one is not fertile was abandoned in the context of the new marriage law, where one opened for assisted fertilisation for lesbian couples. So that question I don't see as a matter of principle this time. We believe that giving assisted fertilisation to HIV positives must be subject to the same priorities and professional considerations as any other medical treatment, but based on the experience that has now been gained since the last discussion, there is no longer any basis for maintaining a legal ban in that area. As far as clarification is concerned, it is necessary, because there has been uncertainty and discussion about what I perceive at least was the clear intention of the Stortinge when we dealt with the Biotechnology Act broadly the previous time, namely that this is a law that deals mainly with health professionals and people who offer a quote, and that it is not meant to be a law dealing with punishing people who use these offers. In this discussion, which has been particularly related to surrogati, some have argued that it is illogical that a person should be allowed to do something abroad that is not allowed to do in Norway. But that's actually not the case. It is not illegal to have surrogati carried out in Norway, for the person who has it carried out, nor is it illegal to do so abroad. In Norway, it is illegal to offer to implement surrogati, and Norway would not have had any opportunity to prosecute persons who carry out and carry out surrogati abroad, i.e. medical personnel. So this is a law that also after this clarification is logical. I also believe that it is right to have a law in this area that is the way it is. A thought that a law was to be introduced that penalized people who had a child, after the child was born, I think it would be wrong. No children are illegal, all children are welcome. Our main task is to ensure the best possible regulatory framework for children and not to allow children to suffer punishment for choices made by adults, even though we should be very clear that surrogati is an undesirable method to use in Norway. It is not desirable for the Nordics to travel abroad and implement it. But we can't let having children become a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e362	With regard to the part of the proposal on assisted fertilisation, on behalf of SV I would just join the representatives Haugli and Höie have said, as good reasons for the majority's view. I would like to make a few brief comments on the issue of criminality in the Biotechnology Act and warn against making it a general surrogate debate. There is a broad political consensus that we do not want to open up the offer of surrogati in Norway. SV has a clear view that we do not want a development where the Nordics use more commercial surrogati abroad. We believe that there is a significant risk that there will be undue pressure on, among other things. Poor women in poor countries, and the fact that carrying a child for others is such a task, with such great consequences for each woman, that it is not right to offer it on a commercial market. But when said, we are very concerned about distinguishing between the debate on commercial surrogati and its use, and the children who have come to Norway as a result of the use of surrogati abroad. Then the children's rights must come first. Then it's our job to make sure that those children get a family life and a daily life as much as anyone else has, and a security in the relationship with their caregivers as other children have. Therefore, the government has been committed to facilitating the best possible formalisation of these parents. Therefore, we should also dismiss any doubt that these families can in some way be prosecuted after they come to Norway. There would be a wrong way to try to counteract the use of surrogati. This is also the case – and I would like to join in what the representative Höie just said – that we need to distinguish between what is regulated by Norwegian law, which is the provision of services in Norway, and what we do not have the opportunity to regulate in any way other than through international cooperation. There is a great need for international cooperation, I believe, to deal with the emerging surrogati industry. But this must be done in the same way as one has managed to reach international agreement on adoption legislation through international processes. In addition, the Grand Duchy and the Government should stand firm in their principal views and clearly urge the Nordics not to avail themselves of such services in other countries. But it makes sense to make the clarification of the criminal code that the majority today advocates. It also shows that we are able to have two thoughts in our head at once – that we are both principleal in our approach to the surrogati issue and insist that there is no desire in Norway, and at the same time, we take care of the children who have come here, whom we warmly welcome, first of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e375	The government has submitted proposals for changes to the biotechnology laws that provide for the assisted fertilisation of sexually transmitted disease couples and changes in the criminal jurisdiction of the law. In the same way as Biotechnology students have been skeptical about the provision of assisted fertilisation where women are HIV-positive, given that there is then a not insignificant risk of infection for the child. The same challenge does not apply if the man is HIV-positive. When the Central Party now joins in the proposal to make the offer gender neutral, we will stress what the Department writes on the matter, that there should be a concrete assessment of whether it is professionally justified to give assisted fertilisation in the individual case, and that infectious physicians must be involved in this assessment. To limit the risk of transmission to the child must be superior. The government has also made proposals to change the criminal liability of biotechnology laws so that they do not apply to individuals seeking or using offers contrary to the law, to the donor of eggs, semen or fertilised eggs, or to research participants. The reason for the change is that we have raised questions about the range of offenders and, in particular, about the criminal liability of individuals. The centre batch has, as you know, a restrictive line in the field of biotechnology. We believe that biotechnology and genetic engineering raise important issues that need to be addressed in an ethical and valuable context. Biotechnology laws deal with fields where we are challenged on our basis of value, and where we include: must be responsible for ensuring that schemes permitted are in the best interests of the child and that their rights are respected. Surrogati is a field that is particularly problematic. The centre party believes that surrogati is not ethical, medical or resource acceptable. The Central Party national meeting has decided that we will limit the possibility of using surrogacy services abroad and maintain the national ban on surrogati. The amendment to the Biotechnology Act does not apply to the prohibition against surrogati, but to changes in the criminal domain. It shall continue to be a criminal offence to contravene, intentionally or intentionally, or to contravene, biotechnology laws or regulations adopted in accordance with the law. But the government and the majority believe that it has no intention of punishing individuals who benefit from treatment that is contrary to the laws of biotechnology, and will grant these exemptions from the law. Today, the cluster of the centre party will support this view. But to me, this matter seems different. For me, this is a fundamental value issue. I have explained why I do not want to or can support the government's proposals for changes to the criminal justice system. I would also like to vote against the proposal in the Chamber today. Five senses of hearing go against the government's proposal. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate believes that assisted conception not allowed in Norway, and all forms of participation in such assisted fertilisation, must be punishable for all, including individuals. Buffdir points out that the context of the legislation, the prohibition must be real, and the consideration of possible serious consequences for children argues that private individuals should be punished. Tunsberg Bishop and the Council of Churches point out in their hearing that acts contrary to the laws of biotechnology should be illegal and punishable, but that the normal reaction to individuals should be exonerated. In that way, they mean that one protects respect for the laws. I think it's questionable about what the government is proposing, and as the Stortinget decides today, is the continuation of the current right. The understanding of the culprits has been submitted to the Justice and Defence Department. They say that many of the prohibition features of biotechnology laws, including the surrogati ban in Sections 2 to 15, are of such a nature in terms of design and value that it seems reasonable to hold on to the assumption that participation from Norwegian territory to such acts abroad is the subject of the general penalty threat in Sections 7 to 5. The law department therefore assumes that the participation responsibility under the biotechnology laws does not only apply to health professionals. I support this. It is a fact that a paragraph with penalties has a holding effect. This disappears when the Storting today eliminates the criminal rights of private individuals. When one so explicitly states that there will be no consequences for individuals about a plan and travel to India to buy a surrogate child, it is my hunch that this helps to legitimize such actions and make it easier to use surrogate. I am strongly opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e401	The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that treatment and organisation are offered so that HIV positives who want it can have children, without children and partners being exposed to infection. The Christian People's Party, like the majority of Biotechnology students, believes that there is a great ethical difference in the offer of insemination to couples where the man is HIV positive, and to couples where the woman is HIV positive. Today, the Christian People's Party does not vote for the government's proposal to change §2-3 of the Biotechnology Act because we believe that the residual risk of the child being infected with HIV or having the effects of drugs when the woman is HIV positive is too ethically problematic. For the Christian People's Party, this is about the fact that the consideration of the child must be overall in this context as well. However, the Christian People’s Party promotes a proposal that allows for assisted fertilization in cases where the man is infected with HIV. Treatment may prevent the woman from being infected. One thus avoids contamination of the child and prevents the child from having two HIV positive parents. When the Christian People's Party today votes against the government's proposal for a change in the second paragraph of Section 7-5 of the penal code, we do so because we believe this change sends out completely the wrong signals. We are concerned that the objectives of the Biotechnology Act and its provisions should be respected and that the law should be preventive. The point of criminal liability, which we are discussing in this context, is not first and foremost how many cases of conviction can be achieved, but the fact that a paragraph that results in criminal liability has an evocative effect. A number of consultative bodies, such as the Directorate for Biotechnology and the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, the government's own professional bodies in this area, warn the government against making the amendment of the law that the majority of people currently advocate, because a principle exemption from criminal liability for some groups can undermine the biotechnology law as such. Biotechnology believes that the signal effect of being exempted from criminal liability could lead to an increase in the use of uncontrolled or unregulated offers by individuals. I find it strange that the government – or the Workers' Party and SV – does not see this danger or at least discuss this danger. According to Bufdir’s view, it appears to be unethical whether it should be permitted for Norwegians to use surrogacy abroad, when this is a form of assisted fertilisation not permitted in Norway. Criminal liability, in Bufdir’s view, could help to reduce demand and also contribute to changes in attitudes. The government is against surrogati in Norway, but will allow individuals to make explicit use of it abroad. Christian People's Party does not support the government's proposal for a new second phase of the Biotechnology Act § 7-5. But we are open to consider what is an appropriate design of criminal law in the light of developments. Bufdir is in his hearing response concerned with developments, and I want to quote: ‘It is only in recent years that we have acquired a secure knowledge that Norwegians are travelling abroad and buying such services. The scope of criminal law should therefore be seen in the light of and adapted to society’s development.’.» A lot has changed since the criminal code was discussed the last time. The global market for biotechnology services is enormous. While services were previously unavailable to most, the market is currently available to many. It is a very strong signal to explicitly clarify the impunity of individuals in the law, especially as developments in the last ten years have shown that private individuals are using foreign services that put pressure on Norwegian law. Before it was the experts' market, now it's the private market – it's yours and mine. The Biotechnology Act covers a wide range of themes and thus regulates many different offers. We challenge the government to consider whether you should not use the same set of thoughts as you did in the context of the Sex Purchases Act, which prohibits the purchase of sex abroad as well. We hope the government will evaluate this in the context of the paragraph we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e430	Does the representative, Mr Hemdal, wish to include the proposal in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e433	The representative shall address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e439	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e442	Many HIV-infected people want to start a family and have children. But these couples today meet a special challenge, as we know. If they try to have children by natural conception, the HIV positive may risk transferring the infection to their partner. They may also be at risk for the child to become infected. This risk we know can be reduced if the couple get assisted fertilisation. But as the law is today, hospitals do not have the opportunity to offer these couples this treatment. That's the starting point for this case. The government wants to change this – and is pleased that we have broad support for it. I will not go into the circumstances about it, because I feel that the posts and the setting have given a good picture of it. We believe that the treating physician must make a concrete and individual assessment of the risk of infection before the doctor determines whether it is appropriate to give the couple assisted fertilisation. In that assessment, it is important that infectious medicines are included. At that time, society has taken a good place in being able to handle this responsibly. So to the proposal for clarifications in criminal law. In recent years, there have been questions as to how far the criminal liability under the Biotechnology Act goes. A central question has been whether criminal law only applies to healthcare professionals or whether it also applies to individuals receiving services. There have also been doubts about patients and individuals who make use of offers abroad that are not allowed in Norway, as part of their preparations in Norway, can be punished. This could be done, for example, by: if from Norwegian soil you connect and contract with a clinic abroad. The government believes it is important that the provision be made clear, so that it is clear from the wording who can be punished for violation of the law. In my opinion, it is the responsibility of the legislator to ensure that there is clarity about the understanding of the law. The proposal under consideration is primarily a clarification to remove the doubts about the scope of criminal liability. The government has, for example: not – with this bill – intended to investigate and address the whole problem complex that surrogati travels. This was also the representative Lysbakken on the inside. The proposed clarification is in line with today’s practice of criminality. If the proposal is adopted, it will be clear that Norwegian women and couples travelling abroad for treatment prohibited in Norway cannot be penalised if they prepare in Norway. This applies, for example: Lone women receiving assisted fertilisation in Denmark and Norwegian couples receiving egg donation in Denmark or in other countries. As it was said, it's probably the main gravity of the group that's affected by this. It will continue to be a criminal offence for healthcare professionals in Norway to offer treatment in breach of the law, to provide intermediary services for such treatment or to assist couples from Norway to receive treatment abroad which is not permitted under Norwegian law. It will also be a criminal offence for businesses, associations, organisations or individuals in Norway to help others to have children by means of e.g.: surrogati, by means of intermediary activities. It is only to stress that Surrogati is not allowed in Norway, the proposal does not change it. The government does not want the use of surrogacy in Norway to be lawful and will not propose to allow it. Norwegian authorities advise Norwegian citizens not to conclude surrogati agreements abroad. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and several foreign stations have published information about this and the risks of using surrogate mother abroad. Nor do the Norwegian authorities issue the documentation currently required by the Indian authorities to provide visas to those wishing to have children through surrogati. It should, in practice, make this a non-existent practice in India. Surrogati is a global phenomenon and should be discussed in global contexts. The Hague Conference on Private International Law, which is also a member of Norway, investigates issues related to surrogati. The Secretariat of the Hague Conference issued preliminary reports in March 2011 and March 2012. It identifies and describes different forms of national legislation, human rights, the vulnerability of the parties and the risk of using surrogati. This is an important work with which the government follows closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e468	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e471	I wonder if the Council of State sees the signal effects that this change in Section 7-5 may entail. The subject of biotechnology says: ‘Even if any penalty in the worst case would involve a fine, the signal effect of exoneration of criminal liability may lead to an increase in the use of uncontrolled or unregulated offers by individuals.’ Does the Council of State see the challenges for which the Biotechnology issue – the Council of State’s own professional body in this area – expresses concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e483	It's a difficult field. It is a difficult field to know what influences behavior and motivation to do one action or another. I am not underestimating that there are complex conditions that lead to a couple or an individual making use of such offers. But I want to say it this way: it was not the intention to open up the criminal prosecution of individuals and individuals, as we interpret the preparatory work for the original proposal, which was promoted by the party colleague of the representative. I do not understand that the treatment here in Stortinget opens up for it. I perceive that it is unfortunate that there are uncertainties about the understanding of the law in such an important field. What we have tried to do – conscientiously – with this proposal is to clean it up, so that there is no ambiguity. We've listened to many of the recordings that have come from the hearing bodies, and they've drawn in more directions than the one that the representative here quoted. We feel that we have done this in a good way, and are happy that there is a broad majority for it in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e492	What I then wonder: Since the work was done – it has been ten years since this paragraph was being treated here in Stortinget – a lot has happened. Yes, something happened ten years ago – I myself know that work in the department. But now the market of individuals is much more. Before that, someone used it. The fact that it is the market of individuals in a completely different way than it was ten years ago, what reflections has the government made about it – when you land on the exception that you are making today, when the world has moved on, and when Bufdir says that that assessment should have been based? This does not reflect the legal proposition that we are dealing with today — an assessment that ten years have passed and that developments have gone on since then.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e499	What I agree with is that evolution has progressed over the ten years, and it's going to go further over the next ten. Whether the developments are moving towards what the representative says, that it is now becoming the market of individuals, I will not challenge, but there may be different ways to describe it. In my view, the essence is the same: it will be offered in other countries with different legislation. It's very different just in Europe and in our immediate areas. So we have to live with the fact that the Nordics, with a strong desire to have children, will take advantage of offers abroad that are not necessarily permitted in Norway. Was it supposed to be punished in Norway because it is not allowed in Norway? No, I didn't mean to. That's why I want to focus more on it and that we're consistent in that respect. So the representative likes to draw out Bufdir's opinion. We've read it with interest, but I want to say that it's not that because a professional body comes up with its statements, it's above the department's responsibility to make an overall assessment. We have made that overall assessment and are pleased that it seems to have taken so widely in Stortinget. We secured a very broad majority for this clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e506	I thank you for your answer. My next line goes on what the government writes about vulnerable people: Parents who come to the country, possibly with surrogate children, are vulnerable, are in a vulnerable phase. In other criminal law in Norway, it is not taken into account that you come from abroad with a child. We have cases of this – then you have to pay your sentence if you have received a judgment abroad. Why is it that this particular group uses the word 'vulnerable'? You have a new family member who is wanted, who is loved, and who there is great happiness around, and is treated as a vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e513	There will be a philosophical debate about concepts and words – using ‘vulnerable’ in one category, does it take away the possibility of using it on other groups? The idea has been to try to carry out a thought experiment: if you are a family who comes home, and are three and not two, or a lone mother who comes home after being conceived, for example. in Denmark – that it should call for arrest or fines on arrival Gardermoen, we believe that there is vulnerability in cases where there is a child with, or a mother who has become pregnant. The fact that we use the word ‘vulnerable’ for this group and not in other contexts, I will not draw any more conclusions from it, but it is to make it clear that the consequence of the proposal that the representative here opens – namely that we should prosecute – is a practice that I believe the majority of the population in 2003 did not go along with, and I am pleased that the majority of the population in 2013 does not go along with either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e518	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e523	It has been interesting to follow the debate, not least the line change. It has been a rather long journey by the Christian People's Party to clarify what has really been the government's position on this issue of criminal liability for individuals. I, the undersigned, Mr Håbreek and others has sought in several rounds to clarify the government’s position, first with the then Minister of Justice and subsequently with the current Minister of Health. It hasn't been easy, to say it carefully. It has been interesting to see how different arguments you have used to not answer, but now we have at least received an answer through this bill and the clarification of it. What I think is interesting, if one should first think in principle – and that was the representative Hemdal inside in his last line – is that one uses the consideration of a third party as an argument for why one does not want to punish actions. That is an almost new principle, and I assume that the government is at least thinking about the consequences of this for other areas of law, not least in the foreign field. Of course, we're going to come back to that, but I expect you've thought about whether this is a principle position or a position entirely adapted to this issue. I think what Bufdir writes is completely in place. They say that this really cannot be given substantial weight. It refers to others who are pregnant, or have small children, but are still being punished. So this is a debate we're facing that the government is going on a more fundamental level. What has to be the conclusion, however, is that the government and the majority here – and we fully agree on that – say that we do not want surrogati, but it does not have any consequences if you have provided for it yourself. On the contrary, as Bufdir has also shown, public authorities have shown more willingness towards this group than have very many others. With regard to the Surrogati question itself, I can only recommend that everyone who is concerned about it, read today's Land and the chronicle of Sara Azmeh Rasmussen, entitled "Feminist ought to know advice" – very informative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e535	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e549	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e558	During this period, the size has addressed a number of proposals aimed at increasing patient and user safety for recipients of healthcare services. It is important for the Committee to emphasise the objective of enabling all patients to experience good and safe treatment in the Norwegian healthcare service, and we know that most patients and users experience good and safe treatment. Despite that, we also know that so-called unfortunate events annually lead to a large number of dead and permanently injured patients. In addition to the human suffering this is inflicted on those who are affected, and their closest ones, it is also a burden on service providers and that it imposes heavy costs on society. It is therefore very important to carry out systematic learning work in order to learn from the mistakes of their own and those of others, so that the quality of the services is improved and the number of adverse events can be reduced. If this is to succeed, it's important to have an extensive culture of transparency. Those who have made mistakes must be able to report them safely, and measures must be outlined to avoid the same mistakes being made again. Health professionals, supervisory authorities, patients, users and relatives have every interest in ensuring that the services are as safe and as good as possible. Therefore, it is also positive that the changes to the laws we are going to deal with here today strengthen the position of patients, users and relatives in supervisory matters. The Committee is convinced that the contributions received and their closest ones can make once the accident has occurred could be of great importance in a learning process in order to improve health and care services and that the strengthened right they are now given could in itself be security-creating. We know that the work done in the health and care sector can be more or less associated with risk, and it is important that this is communicated in a good way. The healthcare service is now made clear and extended its obligation to provide information to those to receive the services. The inclusion of the term ‘user’ in the legal text in addition to the term ‘patient’ makes it apparent that, in addition to those receiving healthcare, those receiving care also have the right to receive information when an accident has occurred. The legislative proposal now allows patients, users and related parties to request supervisory authorities to assess possible breaches of obligations, regardless of whether they are individual errors or system failures. The transparency and right of expression now being provided will, of course, lead to the need for increased resources of the supervisory authorities, which will be reflected in the forthcoming budgetary proceedings. However, on the part of the Committee, it is important to stress that a rapid but also sound procedure is being pursued, as such oversight cases, as mentioned above, are a burden on many parties. The Ministry has in doubt concluded that no action may be brought against the decisions of the State in prudential matters. Government parties support this decision, assuming that it will not necessarily provide better quality and increased patient safety, while generating additional costs and increased treatment time. However, the Government Parties stress the need to pursue much more consistent practices in the treatment of supervisory matters by the State than is currently the case. The party of progress, the Right and the Christian People's Party have recorded the doubt that the ministry has had when they have landed at this position. These parties believe that the doubt must benefit those who are affected by these unfortunate events. Therefore, the opposition reiterates a proposal made by the Progress Party in 2011 that patients and relatives should be given the status of a party to the oversight proceedings handled by the Health Authority, so that it can be opened up in order to appeal to the decisions of the Health Authority. We have been made aware of a number of unfortunate events that have had fatal consequences through various media surveys and enquiries. There has been an accident with technical equipment and accidents due to incorrect treatment in relation to relatively straightforward treatment. In addition to the loss and grief they have left behind in such cases, we see that they need to spend a lot of time and effort to get healthcare to admit errors and to get an apology. By opening up the right to be granted to third parties in such cases, they will be able to receive continuous updates in case of investigation or once the Health Authority has opened proceedings. Those concerned will also have the opportunity, through the opposition’s proposal, to appeal against the decision of the Health Authority. The proposers are aware that such an opportunity to review the Health Authority’s decisions will lead to increased treatment time and increased resource use, but believe that increased legal certainty and increased security will also result in greater importance in this context. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e577	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e580	The government has long had a strong focus on patient safety in healthcare. The Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard was recently dealt with and adopted by the Stortinge. The message describes a commitment that is a milestone in the quality and safety work of the entire sector. The Storing Communication provides for greater transparency and transparency, including transparency of errors that have been committed, and where this has led to death or injury to patients and users. The proposed changes to the Patient and User Rights Act as described in Prop. Thus, 100 L for 2012–2013 is part of a major overall government commitment, proposing several legislative changes to strengthen the quality and safety of healthcare. The government has had a rapid selection to assess the need for changes in practice or law to ensure patient safety. Many of the hearing bodies that have assessed the work of the sample, like the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee, have pointed out that we need clarifications and legislative changes that can take care of patients/users and relatives even better, such as: with a view to a stronger legal right of appeal and expression and the possibility of access to documents. It is an overall committee which joins in clarifying the obligation to provide information in the event of unexpected events such as patient injury/deaths, and that healthcare should inform patients, users and relatives about the measures to be taken to ensure that such events do not recur. The proposal also clarifies the obligation to provide information to patients, users and relatives as regards access to contact with the Patient and User Ombudsman and to ask the County to assess any breach of obligations. The obligation to provide information on access to seek assistance from Norwegian patients’ compensation is also made clear. The proposal proposes a new right of transparency and expression in supervisory cases dealt with by the county and in cases investigated by the State Health Authority on the basis of warnings of serious incidents. There is no right of appeal in the present case in respect of decisions taken by the county council in supervisory matters. Nor has access to justice been provided for in the decisions of the State Health Authority, otherwise in line with the recommendations of the panel that has assessed practices and legislation. The government argues that such a complaint may not necessarily increase patient safety or improve the quality of treatment and that it is likely to delay the duration of treatment. The majority of the Committee agrees with this assessment, but would stress the importance of providing for a more consistent approach to supervisory procedures by the counties than is currently the case. The opposition has long talked about, and also proposed, a so-called health sector accident commission, according to the model of the transport industry. I'm going to admit that to me, who grew up on the coast, the concept of 'hazari' is closely linked to totally different events than damage and death in the health sector, seas whether both are very serious. I will probably never get used to such a concept to describe that it has gone wrong in patient treatment or in care. However, the most important thing is that we find schemes that can support transparency in all institutions that provide treatment, care and care, and where possible victims and relatives feel seen, heard and taken seriously. It will promote the learning culture that we all want and that is so important that we can – and get – the best and safest services in health, care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e593	In fact, it is the relatives who have proposed the word ‘Havari Commission’. I think it says a little about how they experience the situation they are in, when it's in the Norwegian healthcare they lose one of their closest. Patients, users and relatives should be able to feel confident that they will receive good, safe and sound health and care services. I would like to highlight that much in Norwegian health care is good, and in some areas we are world-class. But it might be especially when you're good, that it's important to be busy getting even better. It is important to reflect on whether we have an improvement potential — and whether there are schemes that should nevertheless be strengthened. Studies show that there are unfortunate events of about 10 pst. of all patients admitted to somatic hospitals. On a Norwegian scale, this means that about 85,000 adverse events occur each year. Many of these have less consequences for patients. But too many have great consequences. For many years, the right has worked for patients, users and relatives to be heard. We believe that this is of course the case. Once serious and adverse events have occurred in the healthcare system, we understand the importance of giving patients and their relatives a much clearer place in the follow-up. We believe that their experiences, observations and knowledge are of great importance. We in the Right are pleased that the government has taken our clear signals and proposals seriously, and that more proposals are now being made for changes that strengthen patient and user rights. An important new element is that the right to request that supervision also apply to system failures. We need a health care system in Norway that is even more open and learning. The main reason for evaluating and carrying out critical monitoring of adverse events must be the desire to create safer patient treatment and a culture of learning and change. In one area, however, we are disappointed that the government only meets patients and relatives in half. For us, it is obvious that patients and relatives should have the status of party to the supervisory proceedings handled by the Health Authority, thereby having the right to appeal to the decisions of the Health Authority. Clear party rights are important for all patients who experience defects, defects and accidents in the healthcare system. We know today that many of these people spend a lot of time and effort making healthcare admit errors, and getting an apology, a complaint. Studies show that the patients suing the healthcare system are doing this primarily to contribute to a more learning and open healthcare system. Most patients are in a vulnerable situation when they meet the health care system. I know that health professionals around the country carry with them the words of the Danish ethicist Knud E. Løgstrup, who emphasizes the seriousness and vulnerability of the meeting between people. He says, “The individual never has to do with another person without holding any of his life in his hand.” In the patient-health professional meeting, this sentence is particularly relevant. Life or the possibilities for improvement depend on the care and competence of the professional helper and the conditions under which health professionals provide sound treatment. We know that doctors, nurses and health professionals in all patient meetings have the highest quality as their primary goal. Nevertheless, we can never guarantee ourselves that wrongs happen or that serious events occur – events that can destroy life, ruin future opportunities and create a lifelong harm. It's when this happens, when mistreatment, accident or lack of help makes individuals more vulnerable, that we need to address the burden to a greater extent than now. That is what our proposal is about. It cannot be that the person who has to live on should do so without the right to be a party to one's own case and without the right to have a complaint against the decision. I refer to the proposal that the Right and the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party agree that patients and relatives must be given the status of a party in matters of oversight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e624	We have good health and care services in Norway, and as announced in the Quality and Patient Safety Notice, the government will focus on further improvements. For this reason, we have proposed legislation to strengthen the position of patients, users and relatives in the event of adverse events and health care incidents. The most important thing is the day-to-day work on improving services and making them safer. But we know that errors will happen. The smallest population can expect when this happens is that they are taken seriously, that they are given information, and that they are compensated when appropriate. In my meetings with relatives, they have been very concerned that their contribution to a supervision case can cause the service to learn from errors that have occurred. This bill will contribute to that. In addition, the patient safety programme and the new notification system to the Knowledge Centre are good tools for learning from patient injuries and near-accidents. I am pleased that the Health and Welfare Committee supports the proposals. It shows that we're on the right track. I agree with the majority of the Committee that it is important to strive for more consistent practices in the treatment of supervisory cases by county officials. It is important that cases be treated equally for the sake of legal certainty for both health professionals and users, patients and relatives. The right of transparency and expression could contribute to this. It will also be the case-handling supervisors, who must be properly implemented in their posts. Training and review of practices, which are permanent posts in the county councils' nationwide collections, should be continued. I have noticed – we have debated it a number of times in this Chamber – that the minority wants to create a ‘hazard Commission’ for the health sector following a model from the transport sector. Let me say it this way: I read this proposal as an expression of the same wish we all have, but it is a model that is proposed as we have had for consideration. I believe, like previous speakers here, that the model of the accident commission is not suitable for the health and care sector. First, when can you talk about health care breakdowns? Secondly, how many services should health care and healthcare professionals relate to when an unwanted event occurs? It will always be that some forms of treatment pose a risk to the patient. I believe it is essential that the patient has confidence in the health professionals to perform the treatment. In my opinion, a breakdown commission will not build up under such a trust relationship. So we haven't agreed to that proposal, but I can still see that it points to a relationship we need to know more about. For this reason, we need to investigate how society, at a time when new treatment options are emerging, should follow up serious incidents and suspicions of criminality in healthcare. Therefore, within a short time, the government will reduce a sample that will investigate this widely and in a solid way to give us a good insight into different aspects of this issue. The investigation is one of several measures to ensure a better follow-up to events that have led to unpredictable patient injury or death. I believe that we can already state that it is necessary to strengthen the legal position of patients, users and relatives in supervisory matters and in the event of adverse events. That is why the government is promoting this bill. I believe that the proposal will be an important contribution to giving greater legitimacy to the follow-up to such matters, and it could improve the process and learning. Then the question of party rights comes up. I follow the logic of that proposal and can see the argument for it, but it is in the government's view that such a proposal will, in consequence, be bureaucratic and not provide better patient treatment. The high-speed selection that has assessed practices and legislation in this area is unanimous in its conclusion that patients and relatives should not be given the right to appeal to the decisions of the State Health Authority. I support the sample in this. The question of whether a health professional, for example: to receive a warning or not, should remain a matter between the supervisory authority and the healthcare professional. I have – like the sample – the impression that patients and their relatives are differently concerned with the administrative responses, but that everyone is concerned that the matter is well informed, that they are heard, that their views are taken into account, and that the supervisory authority is following the case in this way. This has also been the position of the majority of the hearing bodies and will be consistent with Nordic law in this area. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee advises the Stortinget to adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e643	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e646	Work on quality and patient safety is moving in the right direction, with professional and political attention, and we are gradually making small and large progress. The size is involved in the work. The objectives are agreed, not always the means. Your own shopping message about the theme has recently been processed, the first of its kind. Hospitals and municipalities are active with renewal and improvement. I look at calls for leadership positions in the sector that work on patient safety is now often described as one of the most important tasks for the manager. That's a good sign. In several previous cases, the size has discussed dilemmas and issues related to patient safety work. They are partly significant and very demanding. It is not easy to know for sure which instruments will have unambiguously appropriate effects. That is why I believe it is right and important that – as the Minister for Health has warned – a wide-ranging selection be set up to investigate this issue. This proposal promotes some legislative changes that will strengthen the rights of patients, users and relatives in supervisory matters and in adverse events in the health and care sector. For the process of continuous progress in this area, it is positive that an overall committee supports the proposals. The proposed changes will include, inter alia: make information responsibility visible at system level, that patients and relatives are to be informed of the content of the work in order to identify the cause of the adverse event, that, in certain situations, dependants may request the assessment of breach of obligations by the supervision, that the right to assess breach of obligations applies regardless of whether there is a system or individual error and a new right of transparency and expression. Overall, the proposals in this proposition bring us further forward in the work on quality and patient safety in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e663	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e677	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e686	The representative proposal of the Progress Party is to transform the Radium Hospital into a national centre of competence for treatment, research and development in the field of cancer. They ask the government to promote proposals to start work on setting up a new clinic building. Norway is well advanced in research, development and treatment in some areas of cancer. Treatment results for Norwegian cancer patients are getting better and now live on 66 pst. of patients five years after diagnosis, while the results 20 years ago were 48 pst. The Committee believes that efforts in several areas are behind this progress and will, inter alia, address the following issues: highlight Norwegian cancer research, the international cooperation of Norwegian researchers, education and the modernisation of healthcare as technological innovation takes place. The Radium Hospital has played a major role in the development of cancer treatment in Norway over the past 80 years, and the Institute for Cancer Research has contributed significantly in both basic research and clinical research. In 2009, the environment moved into a new and modern research building. An overall committee also refers to the good commercialisation results of the environment, including: Photocure ASA and Oslo Cancer Cluster, which in 2007 became the expert centre of Innovation Norway and SIVA. The Cancer Register is one of the main pillars of Norwegian cancer research. They have long follow-up times and complete records in a stable population that allow for world-class epidemiological carcinogenicity studies. A second majority, with the exception of the Advance Party, considers that the country’s leading cancer treatment disciplines should continue to be part of the specialist healthcare service, with an organisation dedicated to national, regional and local treatment and competence services by professional judgement and in line with the applicable legislation. Increasing knowledge development with ever-increasing opportunities in diagnostics and treatment will lead to the collection of some tasks based on best skills. The Government Parties indicate in their attitude that they are aware that Health South-East RHF and Oslo University Hospital have started work on the development and coordination of building mass, including the cancer area, and propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Protocol. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party indicate that the Radium Hospital, the Cancer Research Institute and the Cancer Register constitute three pillars of the so-called Comprehensive Cancer Center. It is a complete centre and an organisational form that Norway was early off developing and that has become a model model internationally. The professional environments in Norway are small, and we therefore believe it is important to develop, continue and bring together acute competences in the field of cancer. In the context of the migration process for hospitals in the Oslo region in 2010, the development of the Radium Hospital was also discussed. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party then made proposals to ensure the Radium Hospital framework conditions for further development into a national centre of competence for treatment, research and development in the field of cancer, and that the Radium Hospital should be continued as a brand name regardless of its organisational location. We are concerned about the clinical building mass at the Radium Hospital, which is currently in poor condition. There is a great need for both rehabilitation and new construction in order to ensure good and sound patient care and to further develop the professional environment. The right and Christian People's Party believes that it should be investigated to transform the Radium Hospital into a competence centre for research, development and testing of new treatments and treatments in the cancer field. However, we believe it is important to maintain the Radium Hospital as part of Oslo University Hospital in order to ensure the sharing of competences and flexibility in the university and hospital environment in Oslo. The Radium Hospital may have the status of a National Centre of Competence and, at the same time, may be a separate organisational unit with its own Director and possibly. own government under Oslo University Hospital. Finally, I would like to refer to the High Representative's proposal on better health construction, which is now under consideration in the Committee, asking for a national plan to be drawn up to ensure better maintenance and faster renewal of hospital properties. I expect the Progress Party itself to present its views and proposals, but I am referring to the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e712	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e715	In the context of this proposal, the proposers state that Norway is well advanced in research, development and treatment in the field of cancer. This is supported by an overall committee, and we note that the treatment results for Norwegian cancer patients are increasing. Every year 30 000 people in Norway are affected by cancer, and much of the treatment can be carried out today in hospitals in the patient’s home regions. This is a development for the benefit of patients. When we get sick, we want the best treatment. At the same time, there is a great deal of quality of life in getting the best treatment in a local or regional hospital with a short journey. In parallel with the regionalisation of Norwegian cancer services, the results have improved. The OECD compares and publishes survival data in many cancers between countries. In recent years, the report shows that results in Norway have improved — exemplified by very good survival in Norway in cervical cancer and breast cancer. Government Parties will highlight the development of these good results within a public specialist health service funded by Community solutions. The proposal of the Progress Party would involve a different organisation of the Radium Hospital from that of other hospitals in Norway. The Progress Party is alone in proposing this. Government parties will strongly stress the importance of the Radium Hospital for the development of cancer treatment in Norway over the past 80 years and the fact that the Institute for Cancer Research has made important contributions in both basic research and applied clinical research. The Institute for Cancer Research has shown that a small country can also contribute to world-class research. To this end, the Cancer Register is a main pillar of Norwegian cancer research, which, with a long follow-up period and complete registration in a stable population, provides excellent epidemiological cancer research. Government parties are confident that it is a better solution to maintain many of the country’s leading cancer treatment disciplines as part of the specialist healthcare system and with an organisation that allocates national, regional and local treatment tasks according to best professional advice and practice. In recent years we have experienced an accelerated knowledge development with ever-increasing opportunities in diagnostics and treatment, leading to some tasks being collected into one or a few hospitals. This development will continue to benefit patients, and in this work it will be right to have national centres of expertise for many cancer types. Radium hospital is already national competence services for long-term effects after cancer, bone and soft tissue tumours and gynaecological cancer. When it is professionally correct, the Radium Hospital and Health South-East may also apply for approval for several national services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e728	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his presentation and for the Committee's consideration of the proposal, and that we in fact agree on a great deal in this Chamber with regard to Norwegian cancer care. We can't get enough emphasis on how good we have in this country, and how good it has been. Of course, it shouldn't prevent us from getting even, even better. For years, the Radium Hospital has been the engine of Norwegian cancer care. Through an extremely competent professional environment, both in research and in the treatment of cancer, the Radium Hospital has also made itself felt internationally. For some time I have visited, among other things. MD Anderson in the United States, which may be the leading cancer research institute in the world, where we met at the highest possible level – precisely because we made a recommendation from the Radium Hospital. The report given to MD Anderson by the Radium Hospital in Norway was nothing less than impressive. However, parts of the building mass are in very poor condition, which probably everyone in the committee has seen by self-esteem when visiting up there. So there's a need for a new clinic building. I don't think there's any doubt about that. After the Radium Hospital was merged into Oslo University Hospital – it was like this before, and even if this would conflict with how we organize ourselves today, it will not conflict with how we organized ourselves for some years back – the Radium Hospital is now to a greater extent than before, as we perceive it, a departmental hospital under the OUS. This in practice means that patients within the business boundaries of Health South-East get very good access to the Radium Hospital, while it is perceived that patients from other companies do not have access to this unique professional environment to the same extent. The Progress Party is concerned that all patients with needs should have equal access to Norway’s best cancer treatment and therefore considers that the Radium Hospital should be transformed into a national centre of expertise in research and cancer treatment. Unfortunately, on several occasions I have received signals that parts of the professional environments at the Radium Hospital are about to be moved out to other hospitals in the OUS area. If that's right, there's something the Progress Party is very worried about. It is difficult to build up environments of competence of such quality that can be found at the Radium Hospital. It is, however, very easy, even though you have the best intentions, to rage quickly at such an environment of competence. We in the Progress Party are concerned about the possible consequences of this development. So the progress party wants us to continue developing the Radium Hospital as a national engine in cancer treatment by making the Radium Hospital a national center and adding new and important functions to the Radium Hospital. I also believe that this should be a civil policy after the elections for the benefit of patients. I would like to promote the proposal on which we stand with others and which is referred in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e754	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e757	The Progress Party will turn the Radium Hospital into a national competence centre directly under central authorities and not under Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East, that the building mass needs to be upgraded, and that the operation comes as a direct post on the state budget. They say directly that new nationwide pre-cancer services should be added to the Radium Hospital and in particular that proton treatment should be localised. They indicate that references from other regions to the Radium Hospital have been reduced. They think it's unfortunate and fear that it helps patients from other health regions not to have the same access to expert competence as those established at the Radium Hospital. It is clear that the Radium Hospital is important for cancer treatment in Norway, but that new nationwide pre-cancer services are automatically to be added to it, I disagree. I also disagree with the fact that the Radium Hospital is to be given special treatment in view of the way it operates, that it should be placed directly under the Ministry of Health and have a budget. I fear that this proposal means that regional cancer departments have to send more patients to Oslo. It's not good for patients, and I also fear that there may be new differences in terms of how much money goes to patients in Oslo versus the rest of the country. In Bergen’s Official Journal on Saturday, May 25, it appears that the cancer wards of Haukeland University Hospitals fear the Progress Party’s proposal. Olav Mella, director of the cancer department there, says to the Official Journal of Bergen that he fears that the research activity will then go down at the other regional university hospitals. He says in newspaper that he thinks that the ‘proposal seems a little thoughtful’ and is based on a thought that cancer treatment is better in Austria than in the rest of the country, and he points out that there is no better survival in Health South-East than in the other health regions. I found it a little surprising that the Progress Party in this proposal says that a new proton treatment department should be located at the Radium Hospital. I'm not so sure if the Progress Party in Hordaland is in agreement, because we were very happy when Health West in this year's budget got 15 million. a national proton treatment centre. I have said that at least I want to fight for the fact that when this treatment centre comes, it can be located in the Health West, which has great competence in this field, and which cooperates with the University Environment in Bergen in cooperation with the competence environment in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e768	I hope the Radium Hospital employees get the good words that are said in this room about the beautiful hospital, because they deserve it, and I think it comes from both the soul and the heart of those who have expressed it in their own experience and from many great stories. I would also like to stress, as the Council of State, that we have every reason to be proud of the quality of Norwegian cancer care. The case rapporteur was in on it, but it can only be repeated. Good quality makes more people survive cancer. In 2013, more than 200,000 people live in Norway who have or have had cancer. This is about three times as many as in 1980. Compared to other countries, we have good results for survival for multiple cancers – more and more survive cancer. In 1980, about half of the cancer patients lived five years after diagnosis. Now the proportion, as mentioned, is about two thirds or a little bit more. Norway has the best survival in the world for cervical cancer and the highest survival in Europe for breast cancer, according to OECD figures. That doesn't mean we can't get any better -- on the contrary, it's a lot to go after. For colon cancer, according to the OECD, we are slightly above average. For lung cancer, a completely new study shows that Sweden, Canada and Australia have better results than us, while Denmark and the United Kingdom have worse results. Every year, a little under 30,000 new cancer cases are now diagnosed, compared with 14,000 in 1980. The number of new cancers will continue to increase. This is due to the development of demography. The cancer record forecasts suggest that from 2030 almost 40,000 people will have cancer every year – we are getting older. It poses challenges in the future, not only in the specialist health service, but also in the municipal health and care service. I will shortly present the government's new cancer strategy, based on good, integrated strategies, and make new proposals. It will provide strategic guidance on how to best meet the challenges in cancer areas in the coming years. The Radium Hospital has been a leader in cancer for many years. Had it not been for a national competence centre to have an almost legal status, we could say that it is our leading competence centre on cancer. And let me say: the cancer research environment at the Radium Hospital is unique, not only in Norway, but also in Scandinavian context. The hospital conducts world-class research. The cancer research building that opened in 2009 is central to current and future research. Following the merger with Oslo University Hospital, the Cancer Research Institute has increasingly established cooperation against clinical environments at Oslo University Hospital – also outside the Radium Hospital. The 2011 evaluation of medical research by the Norwegian Research Council shows that the Radium Hospital has strong research environments with high quality scientific output in several cancers. Measurement of research activity in the hospitals for 2011 showed that Oslo University Hospital had the highest proportion of research credits, calculated from scientific publications and doctoral degrees. It's quite impressive. The Radium Hospital is closely integrated with the rest of Oslo University Hospital. Radium hospital operates extensive diagnostics, surgery, radiation therapy, medical treatment and clinical research in the field of cancer. Six out of nine clinics at Oslo University Hospital currently operate at the Radium Hospital. We have a lot of different cancers. A national competence service covers only a defined subject area or function, not an entire hospital. The Radium Hospital already has three national competences services: national long-term impact competence service after cancer treatment, bone and soft tissue tumours and gynaecological oncology, as mentioned. In addition to these services, the hospital also has national treatment services within five different types of cancer. If it is desirable to establish several national services at the Radium Hospital, Health South-East may apply to the Ministry for its approval. Health regions have overall responsibility for both operations and investment within the framework of the Stortinget. With regard to the proposal for a representative to start work on setting up a new clinic building, I will refer to Health South-East plans for upgrading the clinical building mass at the Radium Hospital and the possibility of renting in new premises in the Oslo Cancer Cluster Innovation Park. The construction is scheduled to be completed in two years, starting this year – in 2013. The cancer register shall also move here. This will strengthen the Radium Hospital as a so-called complete cancer center. According to Health South-East, the activities at the Radium Hospital are today larger than before the merger to Oslo University Hospital. Activities are concentrated on fewer diagnostic groups, resulting in more robust professional environments and larger volumes in patient treatment. It has also been decided that all diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer should be collected at the Radium Hospital when the building project is completed in 2014. In other words, the Radium Hospital is an integral and central part of today's cancer care at Oslo University Hospital. The hospital will continue to be a central player in cancer treatment – at this hospital and throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e798	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e802	I would first like to say that in this debate, I believe that all of us in this Chamber are very much in agreement – and that is good for Norwegian cancer patients – both how good cancer care is in this country, and that we need to improve it. I'm glad of your heart. What we disagree about is how we're going to organize to get even better. I agree with the Council of State that the Radium Hospital is a leading environment in Norway, and this is almost a national competence centre. But if that's right – and that's what I want to ask, does the Council of State know that parts of the professional environments at the Radium Hospital are about to be moved to other hospitals in the OUS area? Question no. two are: in which case, does he agree that this will help weaken the Radium Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e811	I do not know that there is an organized and targeted work to move personnel out of the Radium Hospital. But that there is a circulation of skilled health professionals also in the cancer field within Oslo University Hospital, and also in and of the rest of Health Norway – as underlined by the representative Toppe, we have excellent cancer settings elsewhere in the country too – I will not exclude. And that's not just of the negative. We will also experience in other hospitals that the Radium Hospital is a magnet for skilled professionals who want to work there. But I cannot say that I am aware of the type of initiative to which the representative refers. The question has been asked with a critical input, because he fears that it could weaken the Radium Hospital. I'm not familiar with that, and if that's the case, I have to put myself more into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e818	There are more who live with their cancer, and more who survive, because we're good at researching, developing and treating cancer. But we're not so many in our country, and we're a large country to a geographical extent. So there's going to be a lot of environments that get a little bit smaller. How does the Council of State view bringing together top-notch skills when it has a professional justification, given that we all have a goal of survival for more people and that more people will live well with a cancer diagnosis? Is there anything the Council of State can think of that we're gathering point skills when there's professional evidence for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e827	I can say a very clear yes to that. I think that's what we've seen in the last ten years since the health reform was implemented – that we've gathered important professional environments where it's necessary to ensure high professional quality. There is something that says that practice does master – that in some areas it needs another volume to ensure good services. Some services are so specialised that we need to streamline the environments. On the other hand, it's important to have the opposite, that we also decentralize where we can, so that the offers get as close as possible. All cancer care is not provided in a specialised hospital in the specialist health service. Much is also happening in the municipal sector, which is why the cooperation reform is so important. So I'm perfectly clear about that, and I believe that today's structure makes it possible to do this properly. I also think it's going to continue in the years that are coming, when we see that new treatments, new technologies and new drugs open up new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e836	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e839	I'll just say a few words in this debate. I am among those who were already in 2005, when we fought hard to get fair funding for the specialist healthcare service in Norway, in a situation where, among other things, Health West was seriously underfunded — a situation in which the government was gradually cleared up. Despite the fact that this was about large amounts, we were able to get this back on track. What's the point, and what's important to us health policy, is, of course, that people should have high-quality treatment, and preferably as close as possible – that everyone should have equal availability for high-quality treatment. There has been a lot of talk about the quality of cancer treatment in Norway today. I'm not going to go deeper into it. I was close to one of those people who didn't survive cancer 20 years ago, and I'm very happy to see the results that have come up since. What I am skeptical about this proposal now – not just skeptical, but which makes me strongly opposed to it – is precisely the backside of strengthening, prioritisation and right of way for the Radium hospital: that this will also weaken the professional environments and treatment services of the regional services that exist. As the representative Toppe pointed out, the scepticism of the Haukeland hospital is strong and well-founded. It is a development that we must be very vigilant, because I believe that providing a good treatment offer where people are, is also very important. With today's technology and knowledge development, it is not impossible for hospitals to interact to develop their skills as well. Then I also see that there is a lot of talk about barley – there is probably as much talk about the health of the buildings as the health of patients in this proposal. I have some idea that this proposal is also largely designed to – let's say – enlist in the queue of healthcare products to be distributed after a rather tough process across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e852	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e866	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e875	This proposal for a representative was promoted in the discussion relating to two specific carcinogens which, on the part of the Directorate-General for Health, did not recommend the use of, based on economic considerations, but as a professional recommendation for use. Since then, there have been two important clarifications. One is that the government has launched a study, a funded project, in the case of the medicinal product used in the case of pectoris, which makes it a medicinal product that is now available to Norwegian patients. It is also mentioned in the revised budget. We are also dealing with the proposal which was promoted on its own roll-out notice on medicinal policy, which was unanimously adopted in the Stortinget. It also means that work has been started on the preparation of a new single programming message on medicinal policy. In that Communication, there will hopefully be a thorough review of the decision-making system related to the use of new medicinal products, especially in the field of specialist healthcare. This is also mentioned in the setting. In this context, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal to ask the government in the context of the revised 2013 national budget to propose that ‘Abiraterone be transferred from individual reimbursement to general reimbursement in the BIP’. This proposal did not receive a majority. One sees that the government has not done so in the revised budget either. That is really the question that remains related to these two specific medicinal products. However, the revised budget is now under discussion in the Grand Duchy, and it is up to the individual parties to follow up such an initiative and proposals in this respect, if appropriate. This is the background to the Committee's recommendation, as such, that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Protocol, given that these issues have recently been or are under consideration in the Grand Duchy. Then the proposers will probably take up the assessments related to their own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e888	The proposers set out the background to their proposal for the ongoing debate on criteria for setting up new and costly cancer treatment, and put this into practice by two new drugs for the treatment of long-term pectoris and prostate cancer. Initially, government parties will point out that the Minister of Health and Health has already asked regional health businesses to launch a research study on one of these medicines, Ipilimumab. The study shall include all patients who may benefit from the medicinal product and the treatment is within the authorised use. The study will initially have a duration of five years and, in the revised national budget, the government has made proposals for funding for the current year. Existing studies indicate that the medicinal product has a good effect on some patients, while the medicinal product for most will have a low or moderate effect, while it may have serious side effects. Following the decision to launch the research study on the anti-foetal agent, a similar study for the medicinal product Abiraterone against prostate cancer is requested. The medicinal product is used in prostate cancer with spread but cannot cure the disease. Unlike the medicament against femoral effusion, there are already many patients receiving the drug for prostate cancer, and in 2012, almost 500 patients used the drug by applying for individual reimbursement by hospital specialists. Abiraterone is an established treatment provision and therefore there is not the same need to carry out a research study to develop new knowledge of which patient groups should be offered treatment. Substantial funds are allocated for medical research both through the designation of funds for regional health businesses and through the Norwegian Research Councils. The health service assesses the need for the conduct of clinical studies, including research on the use of the medicinal product in question as part of established treatment courses. In our opinion, competitive processes will contribute to the high quality of Norwegian cancer research. The development of knowledge in medical treatment is rapid and consists partly of new opportunities with curative effects and partly of opportunities with varying degrees of life expectancy for a group of patients. New treatments have not always identified patients who benefit from treatment. Both authorities and professional communities have a responsibility to prioritise, and important work has been done in this area in Norway, including the United Kingdom. in the two payroll selections. Priority work has been widely welcomed, where the severity of the disease, the expected benefit of health care and a reasonable relationship between impact and costs in total should form the basis for prioritisation. Priority tasks are often very demanding, but they become somewhat easier when we have a good knowledge base. Finally, we are going to have many new and expensive medicines in the years to come. Our choices and our decisions must be based on knowledge and maximum transparency. It was therefore necessary for the health director to show so clearly that the secrecy of negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry with the central health authorities is not acceptable and it is positive that the company concerned subsequently accepted normal processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e903	After the good presentation by the rapporteur and after the speech by the representative of Health, who both point out that things have happened with regard to the two drugs mentioned since the proposal was promoted, it really makes the need for a longer post somewhat less. In addition, this debate could be about the full scope of the pharmaceutical policy, which it should not do. The reason for this is that the government had one of its flashes of light, I think – they probably think even they have many – and voted in favour of the Progress Party's proposal for a big message on the pharmaceutical policy, which I am still very pleased with. And I commend the government councils and government parties every time I have the opportunity – just so there is no doubt about it. So, luckily, the post might be a little bit shorter. I still think there is another point that deserves to be touched on, and that is the debate on the principles that will underpin a new notification of medicinal products. Fortunately, we have seen that the Directorate-General for Health's expert group has said yes to new medicines, but unfortunately we have seen that they have subsequently been tested by the Directorate-General for Health. This helps, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to undermine people's confidence in health services. If technical advice from the Directorate-General's expert group requires the use of new medicinal products, the Advance Party considers that this should not be subject to review by bureaucrats in the Directorate or in the Department. I am really quite frustrated that the government accepts a practice of defending it externally with the fact that there are professional assessments that have been made. In practice, this helps to shift the definition power of what professional advice is, out of the expert group and over to bureaucracy. It is in its ultimate consequence not reliable. Therefore, the Party considers that it is natural that in cases where the Downgraded Expert Group of the Directorate-General for Health recommends a new medicinal product, it may and should not be over-examined by other actors. The only exception to such a practice I see fit to have is if the decision of the expert group has been appealed for medical and professional reasons. I would like to be allowed to take up the proposal that the Progress Party is behind, and that is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e916	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e919	It is possible that I do not follow along well enough in the media picture, but I have not noticed the constant praise of the representative Olsen for this government's occasional flash of light. But when it's carried out with patos from the Storting's pulpit, I take it to myself in full width and thank you for it. It's true, as the representative says, that this debate has been clarified in many ways with the speeches that have been, but there are important questions of principle, so I want to say a little bit about it. In Norway, the size is the top priority body. It is the Storting that determines the income of the state in the form of taxes and taxes, and it is the Storing that determines how we are to distribute those revenues. The new growth rate after 2005 chose to give priority to healthcare, including: Because we see there is a great deal of need in areas like this. cancer. That means we don't have the opportunity to promise great tax relief. Disagreement on these priorities is an honest and political matter, and it is part of the political change of words. But even though politicians come to different conclusions here, I think it is the wish, from an overall political Norway, to provide the best possible treatment for patients with the resources we choose to use for health. Then I disagree with representatives Olsen's conclusion that an expert group will automatically decide what Norway is going to purchase from medicines. Expert groups may be used for much, but they may not necessarily have the decisive word in such a field. There is a political consensus that priority should be determined on the basis of some principles: the severity of the disease, the expected benefit of health care and a reasonable relationship between impact and costs. There is more and more a broader assessment than an expert group assessing the individual medicinal product from a medical point of view. I think it is important that we be able to agree on the important principles of priority. There will be much more demanding in the coming years, with new medicines and new opportunities. Prioritisation is about getting the most out of resources within a service or business, and it is about taking care of vulnerable patient groups that do not get their case highlighted, for example. in the media. If we want to spend more on health, we have to give more money. This has been done every year, but no matter how much the size allows, we have to maintain the ability to prioritize. The Health Directorate and the National Council for Quality and Priorities have provided advice on a number of issues that have contributed to the benefits of health resources for many patients. I'm busy turning the ring around the integrity of this mechanism. Earlier this year, I launched a national system for the introduction of new and expensive medicines and treatments in the health sector, and we are in the process of being established. All new medicinal products and measures in health and other societal areas need to be assessed against impact and price. I think it's important to be transparent about price and decisions. This is not new – it is a direct result of our wanting to get the most out of the appropriations from Stortinget. Although, according to the Health Directorate’s professional assessment, the efficacy of the medicinal product against pharyngitis is not proportionate to the price, both the directorate and the expert group have pointed to the possibility of offering it through research studies. There was this possibility the government chose. The government wants to make use of this possibility, and the ministry has therefore asked the hospitals to launch a research study on this cancer medicine. I am pleased that this study makes it possible for the medicine to be used for femur scratches. The aim is to document the effect of the treatment and to gain knowledge about which patients have a particularly good effect on this medicinal product. Such knowledge is lacking today. With more knowledge, we can target the treatment to future patients who benefit from the drug, while at the same time reducing the extent of adverse reactions in patients who fail to achieve efficacy. When results of the study are subsequently obtained, it may be appropriate to include the medicinal product in the national guidelines. The scope of the study is in line with the estimate that 100 patients will need this treatment each year. The study will initially last for about five years. The study starts as soon as the treatment protocol is ready and has been approved by the Regional Research Ethics Committee. Until the study starts, I have asked that patients who could benefit from the medicinal product within the authorised use be offered this. And as pointed out, this is proposed funded by the revised national budget. New treatment methods are being developed. Divicious professionals provide for increased survival after cancer treatment. Norwegian health services are increasingly achieving better results, as we have discussed earlier today. The newly established system for the introduction of new medicinal products and new methods shall contribute to better decision-making and transparency. Then we have a long tradition of strengthening the ability to prioritize. That's why I have taken the initiative to set up a new selection to help us clarify new modern priority issues with a follow-up to the Wage I and Wage II Committee. This is announced in a short time, both composition and mandate, and I have great faith that it can help an overall political Norway and a collective Health Norway to make wise decisions in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e940	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e954	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e963	The representative proposal from the Left addresses low-threshold mental health services in municipalities in order to provide better mental health care to citizens, and a number of proposals have been made. The intention of the Left proposal is good and points to important challenges in this area. A unanimous committee acknowledges that mental illness is one of our most important public diseases. Around half of the Norwegian population will have suffered from mental illness during their lifetime. This is a major health burden for individuals, families and society as a whole. According to the World Health Organisation, mental illness is likely to be the most important cause of disease stress in Western countries in 2050. The Committee considers it important to prevent mental illness and that the best way to do so is to provide better mental health care in municipalities. The goal must be a well-developed lowthreshold service in municipalities where rapid help can be obtained without referral from a doctor. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party show that many people, both with mild and severe suffering, are without treatment. There are long waiting lists and long waiting times to get to treatment, and it is too random who gets help and when. At the end of 2012, more than 9000 adults and almost 3400 children were in treatment queues for mental health care. Figures from the Norwegian Patient Register show that the average waiting time in the field of mental health protection for adults has increased from 2011 to 2012. At the same time, 1 400 breaches of the treatment guarantee were recorded. This is a very unfortunate and serious development. According to the Institute of Public Health, mental illness accounts for 40 p.m. of the costs of disability pension, and they estimate that the cost of mental illness amounts to between 60 and 70 billion. kr per. years. Research shows that mental illness and school dropout are the main causes of early disability. There are therefore very good reasons to invest considerable resources in the prevention of mental health protection. The lack of lowthreshold services in municipalities leads many people with mild or moderate disorders to refer to specialist healthcare, which in turn leads to longer treatment queues. Not least, it is stressful for the individual that the condition may deteriorate during the waiting period. The Roadmap for Mental Health started in 1998 and ended in 2008. The evaluation of the escalation plan shows that people with mild and moderate mental disorders or with drug problems and the elderly with mental disorders have not received a satisfactory offer during the planning period. A new SINTEF discussion report, ‘Assessing proposed models of municipal co-financing of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment’, states that municipalities have never used less resources in mental health protection since the termination of the escalation plan. [[KMF]] This considers the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party to be a development in the wrong direction, and it is contrary to the intention of the Cooperation Reform to prevent more to repair less. Furthermore, there is considerable uncertainty about the financing arrangements of the specialist health services and municipalities. The aim of low-threshold services is that local communities can get in touch easily and quickly with professionals who have the necessary competences in mental health, such as a local psychiatry service, family protection offices, community psychologists, mental health teams, health centre with health sisters or group services under the direction of volunteer centres. Another good example is the Family House, which is a multi-disciplinary low threshold offer. I would particularly like to highlight the health centre and school health services as very important arenas to detect and prevent the development of bias in children and young people — as well as kindergarten and school. The Committee considers that it is essential to strengthen these services with several health sisters. They have a unique starting point because they meet the families and children from birth and follow the children throughout their childhood and childhood. Strengthening mental health services is important in order to succeed in the goal of being able to live a decent and most common life even if you have a mental illness. Good measures must be taken in municipalities to ensure that housing and support measures, organised activities for a social life where participation in working and social life are part of everyday life. In the past, the right has pointed to the need for a system of well-developed general psychological services in the municipalities, which, in addition to the decision-making body, can meet the needs of the population for mental health care. I would also like to highlight Akershu County, which, on a proposal from the Right, has put in place a system in which, with the funds of the county municipality, they have ensured the health care of all secondary schools in the county in cooperation with the community health service. In conclusion, I refer to the proposals that have been put forward in the vote on the right-hand side of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1001	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1004	This issue raises a debate on mental health and puts the spotlight on one of the greatest challenges of our time in the health sector. The growth in the number of people struggling with mental health problems is worrying, and it is therefore good that this matter can now be discussed here in Stortinget. It also, hopefully, contributes to more transparency about the disease and facilitates the lives of the many affected. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that prevention and combined action are important. It is also important that municipal services such as housing and organised activities for social life and participation in work and social life become part of everyday life. In addition, the specialist health service and the municipalities, in close cooperation, need to develop a coherent and comprehensive service offer. In the document, proposers present a wide range of proposals, ranging from strengthening grant schemes to employing several psychologists in the municipality, to national health centre escalation and a strengthening of the school health service. In addition, a number of other proposals, pilot projects and escalation plans are promoted, as if nothing has happened in this field in recent years. That's not the case. Despite treatment queues for both adults and children, which of course worries me, I would remind you that never before have so many received help and treatment for their mental disorders. The number of children and young people now receiving help has almost tripled through the escalation plan, which focused on building good services in municipalities and DPS in the specialist health service. In particular, it is important to strengthen the DPS so that they are well rusted when possible crisis situations arise. Several psychologists in Norwegian municipalities also contribute to a more complete and full-fledged service provision of the community health service. The 2009 scheme of grants for the testing and recruitment of psychologists in municipalities has resulted in 130 new psychologist positions across the country. Much is expected from Norwegian municipalities. I have a long experience of this, as rapporteur for 16 years in Ringsacher. With a total growth in the local economy of 61 000 million. from 2005 the expectations of the local government sector are high. This growth is essential for municipalities to be able to fulfil their obligations in this area as well. But not all municipalities can do this job alone. To date, many municipalities are too small, and therefore intermunicipal cooperation is essential to enable the smallest municipalities to develop services in the field of mental health. As former local politicians, I react somewhat to the level of detail presented in the many proposals made by the proposers. Not a lot of trust in the municipal maritime administration is made visible here. In my opinion, municipalities must also be given the freedom to adapt these services to their other activities, with their diversity in terms of geography, size – both in terms of area and population – and not least in terms of the way they organise their activities. It has so far been well arranged to anchor mental health in the wider health system. A good boost has been taken to enhance quality, capacity and competence, to the benefit and pleasure of users. We're not in the target, but we're in the right direction. The interaction area is open to the development of good practices for those who, on a short or more long-term basis, need treatment or support measures to facilitate everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1023	Psychiatric disorders are often the disease that doesn't seem, but that can still make unfathomable hurt. It hits most to a greater or lesser extent at some point in life, and fortunately, for most people pass it. We know a lot about getting help at an early stage, and the low-threshold services in the municipality are therefore very important. Much good work is done over the whole country, much thanks to the earmarked funds contained in the Road Safety Plan. Unfortunately, we have been made aware that some municipalities have built up some of the things we achieved, which is very regrettable. This picture is confirmed by the Sintef discussion report. Early help at a low level is served by all parties and has to be suspended. Since we are also working with care and public health in these days, this proposal is also important in the context of these. I also consider the proposal to be important from the point of view of work and disability statistics. The intention of the interaction reform implies a need to expand the offer in the municipalities, but a reduction in the specialist health service cannot and must not happen until we have put in place good services in the municipalities. Unfortunately, we see that the reduction in specialist health services has started, and both employees and relatives are calling out a warning, as they believe that more and more sick people are being discharged prematurely and sent over to the municipalities, which do not have enough competence to handle them properly. If we mean something by our beautiful words about bringing down the number of forced admissions and coercive medications, and if we mean anything when we say we want to have down the number of suicides, the health chain has to hang together in a good way. The Progress Party therefore supports Left's concern that the reduction in specialist health services is faster than the municipalities are able to build up. Since we never achieved all our targets in the escalation plan, the Progress Party has been concerned with the continued earmarking of funds, and we want a new escalation plan and promote it today. Another important step The Progress Party wants to take is to fund the psychologists in the same way as the decision-makers. We are aware that many private psychologists have free capacity, but without agreement it does not help if the patient has a referral. The patient must either choose to wait disproportionately long, or pay himself. This is once again an example of a two-part health service that the Progress Party will not sit still and watch. Free capacity shall be used for those who wear. At the end of 2012, there were 12,400 in treatment queues for mental illness, an average waiting time had increased, and 1,400 treatment interruptions were recorded. In addition, it has been found to be a joke with the waiting times. These are numbers and signals that the Progress Party does not see that the government is really taking over. Their answer is that no other government has transferred more money to the municipalities. Of course they do, we're becoming more and more people, more and more tasks are being transferred to the municipalities, and in addition we have price growth and wage growth. It must be incredibly sad to face up to a policy that is just about money and system over people. It is therefore gratifying to note that there is a common will within the opposition to correct waiting times, queues, shortcomings and weaknesses. Many of those who are struggling mentally today don't have time to wait. A glance at this case tells me that this is exactly what they need, whether they want or not. I am addressing the proposals that the Progress Party alone or with others has on this issue, the proposals that we are making that have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1049	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1052	We've had a lot of issues about the mental health supply both this year and the other years. I found it very positive that the size is concerned with the supply of this patient group. Psychiatric disorders are a major burden of disease in all western countries, including Norway, and will become greater if the forecasts are correct. I share the intention behind the proposal for a representative. There are a number of proposals that are in themselves good, but which I think are largely taken care of. I would like to point out that the evaluation of the escalation plan just showed that it was those people with mild, moderate mental distress who might not have received the greatest improvement in their supply, and we must take this seriously now. The proposers believe that the most important approach to prevention of mental disorders is to provide citizens with better mental health care in municipalities. I fully agree that we need to improve the low-threshold provision in the municipalities – then the municipal economy is very decisive – and that we can get good school health services and health stations, on which we now have with the public health report a boost. It's very good that the schools can assign school psychologists, and that we get more community psychologists. That's what I'm very concerned about. It's been an improvement, but it's very important that PPT is a low-threshold supply that works. Then it says in the setting of the states that ‘The objective must be low-threshold provision in municipalities where rapid help is possible without referral’. I agree with that, but it also has to be the setting of a low-threshold offer. Then the availability must be good, and they must also have competence in this field. I do not agree that the most important prevention measure is better health care in municipalities. The main prevention action takes place outside the health service. It happens in kindergarten, it happens in school, it happens in the workplace, it happens in communities that prevent loneliness and isolation. Public health reports may be the most important prevention against mental illness. Physical activity is a wood-based agent that works against cardiovascular diseases. But it also works against easier mental suffering that one is in physical activity. Maybe an hour of physical activity in school is where we can do the most for children and young people to prevent easier mental suffering. So to say that mental health and drug abuse are not part of the interaction reform. I would like to point out that it is so absolute a part of the Cooperation Reform. It is part of the agreements between municipalities and health care agencies. Neither is surgery included in the financial arrangements, but we're not talking about surgical patients being part of the cooperation reform. This is a community health service reform, with more treatment to be provided closer, and it applies to all patient groups. It is true, however, that for drugs and mental health, and we also have to notify them, it should be included in the financial arrangements when it is appropriate, and as soon as it is possible to do so. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that there is a concern that at least some places are being converted too quickly from daily supply to district psychiatric centres and to community health services for mental disorders. This conversion takes place without building up the corresponding competences locally. I've seen an example of that. I'm worried about it, and I'm therefore very pleased that the Minister of Health has signaled that this is going to be a review of, so that you see that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1074	Initially, I too would like to join in the praise of the proposers. It's great that the Left engages in this field, and that it comes in spite of the fact that you're not represented in the Health Committee during this period. Psychiatric disorders are one of the most important public diseases of our time. The Committee agrees that it is important to prevent mental illness and that it is best to do so by providing better mental health care in municipalities. The objective must be low-threshold services in municipalities, where it is possible to get help quickly without referral from a doctor. Unfortunately, we are far from this goal today. There is a great need for mental health protection. The waiting lists are long. 9 000 Norwegians are waiting for treatment, and the system for getting an hour is difficult in many places in the country. Yes, figures from the Norwegian Patient Register show that the average waiting time in the field of mental health protection for adults has increased from 2011 to 2012. At the same time, we record more than 1 400 treatment guarantee breaches. The number of clinical psychologists with an operating contract has also decreased in recent years. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999–2008 was an important initiative in this field. Many goals were achieved, but not all. The SINTEF report from earlier this year shows that in recent years fewer annual work per capita has been done on mental health work in municipalities, both for adults and children. Local authorities give priority to living funds with permanent staff, but reduce efforts for home services, treatment, day-care centres and activities. This is in contradiction with the Interaction Reform, which is largely about focusing on prevention and early efforts to prevent disease progression. In the case of children and young people, annual school health and health care efforts have been protected from decline — that is very good — while treatment, follow-up, activities and cultural measures have been reduced. In hospitals there has been an increase in the number of outpatient hours, but an increase in the number of daily stays, according to the mental health escalation plan. It is in line with the escalation plan and is good. But patients are shorter inside – those who lie there. We know and hear from employees in the municipalities that prevention and measures for children and young people must now be lowered in order to deal with those who were in hospital in the past. We then have to ask if we have received the escalation that we want. The Christian People's Party believes that some of the reasons for today's situation are that the escalation plan for mental health was concluded prematurely. We believe that we need a new escalation plan in mental health with earmarked resources and until these health services have reached the right level. Such a stepping-up plan must be coordinated with the Interaction Reform in relation to our own funding and organisational models in the field of drugs and psychiatry. Today, we are promoting proposals on this. The Christian People's Party also promotes proposals where we ‘provides the government to maintain the provision of specialist health services in the field of mental health protection, while ensuring the time and resources to build up its own competence in the field’. So some cross-referenced things about the attitude: the Christian People's Party believes that we need to strengthen the grant scheme for ambulatory mental health teams. We have recently promoted a proposal for a representative to strengthen family protection. In this context, we made the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to propose a stepping-up plan for the protection of the family.’ The proposal was supported only by the representatives of the Christian People's Party during the voting here in the Chamber, but today the Left has a somewhat similar proposal for consideration. An overall committee also considers it necessary to strengthen health stations and school health services with several health sisters. Today, we are promoting a proposal for a national action plan for health centres, in line with the recommendations made by the trade union directorate. I take this up with me the proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting alone in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1105	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1108	Psychiatric health services have been a stepchild in health care for many decades, until quite recently. It takes time to turn a big shot, we know that. We also know that prevention is easier than cure. Psychiatric health is no exception. The left believes that the availability of services for people with both minor and severe mental disorders is too poor today. The waiting lists are too long, and it's random who gets help, and when. Today's queue causes little mental problems to become big, serious, and life-threatening. I would like to point out that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the financing arrangements between the specialist health services and the municipalities, and that this together with a pressed municipal economy prevents municipalities from preparing for the Interaction Reform to also include mental health services in 2016. In our opinion, it is unfortunate that the treatment capacity in the specialist healthcare service already seems to have been stepped down, without the health service being built up in the municipalities. It is necessary to think anew in mental health. The objective must be lowthreshold provision in municipalities, where rapid help can be obtained without referral. The left believes that a well-developed mental service in the municipality will bring great savings to the health system. Many mental problems can be considered as normal responses to unusually high loads, and through a well-developed first-line service in the municipality, small problems can be prevented from developing into major and expensive health challenges such as those of specialist health services. Others need to be helped to address challenges related to normal life situations, such as: divorce, birth depression, death, etc. In 2009, approx. 70 pst. for adults with mental health disorders, both municipal treatment services and specialist health care. In my view, there is a great reason to believe that many problems such as the specialist health service would be solved in the first line service, if this was a well-developed offer in the municipalities. Today, lack of lowthreshold services leads patients to faster referral, which in turn leads to long waiting lists and, in turn, may lead to many getting sicker while waiting for help. In the view of the Left, this is socially unprofitable, as well as impairing the quality of life of the individual. The left is familiar with the Health Directorate grant scheme for community health psychologists. We believe this is an affordable tool that was launched in 2009 to recruit more psychologists to the municipalities. However, I would like to stress that this is not enough. On average, two out of three municipalities do not have one psychologist employed. A temporary grant scheme is far from sufficient to enable municipalities to meet the obligations under the Health and Welfare Services Act and to offer citizens a low-threshold offer, which the Left considers necessary. Information and information are helpful to self-help. Here, health services in municipalities do an important job. For example, we see that fixed times for health care in secondary and secondary schools have given significant and increasing numbers of visits. We also see that more boys are making contact. A national escalation for health and school health services, I believe, is a very important measure that can have a long-term impact. Finally, I would like to address the two proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1128	The representative, Inger Johanne Bjørnstad, has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1131	Let me also join those who share the involvement of the representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden in this field. I think we're all doing that when it comes to putting this question on a social policy agenda. We have continued the direction and values of the escalation plan for the last five years. Better understanding and new knowledge of how we best treat mental disorders make the need for change, local interventions and the reduction of traditional hospital functions visible. New ways of working facilitate outreach activities, flexible arrangements, close cooperation between municipalities and specialists, more transparency, stronger user role, interaction with work and school, and not least a better understanding of what dignity entails. We will continue to work on developing good local-based services – adapted to local circumstances. One of the most important things we can do then is to strengthen the local economy, which strengthens the ability of municipalities to establish local services. The extent and consequences of mental illness can be reduced by systematic health promotion and prevention. It's hopeful. It is important that we look here not only at the repair side, but also at the major prevention side, which focuses on many aspects of our society that can contribute to mental health. Many prevention takes place and must take place outside healthcare, through, for example: kindergarten, school and working life. At the same time, those who have already fallen ill or are at risk of becoming ill shall be offered good services at the appropriate level. Therefore, the government has strengthened the establishment of lowthreshold services and has worked for good cooperation between municipal health and specialist health services. The cooperation between specialist and local authority is among other things. based on the statutory cooperation agreements resulting from the Interaction Reform. There are increasing numbers of such agreements, and I see that the quality of them is being raised. Let me underline: Noise and mental health have been part of the interaction reform from day one. Although some economic instruments remain to be developed, they are fully part of the reform. We work every day to achieve even better cooperation between municipalities and hospitals. One example is the ACT teams, where municipalities and specialist health services work together to provide a professionally strong and individually tailored offer to those who need it the most. Through the model experiment with recruitment grants to psychologists in the municipalities, we gained good experience on how municipalities can best use their psychological skills. In these days, the Health Directorate presents the evaluation of the experiment. The good results provide the basis for further strengthening the recruitment grant this year. I record that some people call for changes in funding of psychological services to individual reimbursement schemes. This will mean that we lose the positive, that the psychologists do not work as a specialist in health. The important prevention work of community psychologists today does not necessarily fit into an individual reimbursement system. That's why we're not going in for it. In the interview with the representative Hemdal at the end of April, I drew out seven grips that could make an already good field even better. Several of these grips are also reflected by the proposers: more regular psychologists in municipalities strengthening health station and school health services increased efforts for good low-threshold prevention services in municipalities better user involvement and less coercion I read the representatives' proposals as a statement that there is a great deal of cross-political agreement on these grips and I am pleased that the representatives also want greater transparency on mental health. It may be tempting to respond to all needs outside the municipalities with several escalation plans. I understand the intention, but after an escalation plan, it is essential that the field finds its natural place in the overall healthcare system. There is no lack of priority to be heard at home in the overall healthcare system. We have a good mental health protection and a good mental health service in the municipalities, but also these disciplines need to develop as new knowledge develops. They can get better. There are shortcomings, and we're working to fix them. Switching to specialist healthcare is necessary to make good use of resources, so that we can help more people in a faster and better way. In the Health Regions mission document, I have therefore requested that the DPSs, the District Psychiatric Centres, be strengthened so that they can deal with acute situations and crises, regardless of when the day-to-day situation arises. I have also initiated a broader survey of the current situation in the field and made it clear that I want to present a revised target picture in the field of mental health. In this way, we will make best use of the tools and be sure that the measures we put in place will move the field in the right direction. Prerequisites facilitate the success of good prevention and mental health services, both in hospitals and in municipalities. We need to keep up with developments, provide good and proper incentives and listen to users and relatives. I want more transparency about mental disorders. I want greater transparency through more user involvement, less use of coercion, and I want more transparency and discussion about the professional challenges that we are facing today, among other things. resolves through a conversion of the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1170	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1173	I will take the opportunity to ask a question that I have promised some relatives to ask. I get a lot of enquiries from relatives who experience that their loved one is so sick that in bad days they will not go out. This means that they often do not meet at the much-needed hour of treatment or conversation they have been given. They want more than one invoice for not having met. Will the Council of State intervene for those who live at home and who need mental assistance, but who are unable to avail themselves of the offer they are actually given?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1180	We've recently come to know that the number of people who don't meet at the agreed hour is high. I am very aware that among them there are not necessarily opt-outs, but very many who are in a vulnerable situation, where there is actually also an explanation as to why they cannot remain silent. That's why I've been careful to follow the proposal that someone comes up with, that you have to tighten up your fees and penalties – so to speak – so that you don't spend an hour. It's more complex than that. But I think we need to remind those who have an hour, that they have an hour, actively follow them up with call centres, text messages and – if necessary – outreach activities. For the group that the representative describes, I think that is very much in what we have through outreach activities, ACT teams, cooperation between specialist health services and community health services – which looks to the individual according to the needs of each individual. He/she must then be seen in his/her home environment, in his/her living environment and at his/her place of work in order to have better access to the condition is so poor that he/she is unable to move out of his/her home.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1185	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1190	One of the most important things when you get sick is to get help. But for many, the path to the psychologist can be long. You don't know how to get in touch with a psychologist, and it can be hard to get an hour. In particular, it may be easier to do something, i.e. for those with less depression and anxiety. Many people fight daily against depression. They can work, they can see them, but it costs them a lot to go to work. Many people have a lot of anxiety and anxiety and can have a lot of trouble sleeping, even though they appear to be calm, resourceful and competent on the outside. This significantly reduces the quality of life and prevents optimum functioning. Many people may be aware of several of these symptoms and feel that it can't be as bad, because the outside people are as good as the rest of the population. They can get better with help, but it's important that the help is close, and that there's a low threshold. It's set at 10 million. kr to a municipally anchored pilot project called Rapid Mental Health Assistance. The aim of the pilot project is to test a model to make treatment for anxiety and depression more accessible to the population. A cognitive therapy training package adapted to rapid mental health care was developed in 2012 and funding for municipalities that want to start up such an offer is available. It's nice to see how the offers now spread in these municipalities. The project shall be based on cognitive therapy and guided self-help based on cognitive therapy. Cognitive therapy is about changing thought patterns that are not good for you. It shall change automated thoughts. Rapid mental health care should be a low-threshold community service for people with mild and moderate anxiety and depression problems. It shall be free of charge for users, provide direct assistance without referral and be provided by competent personnel. The method has demonstrated a positive effect on mild and moderate anxiety and depression. This is an example of a very distinct lowthreshold offer that should be developed further. This can lead to better quality of life for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1207	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1223	We humans need fellowship. We need each other. We need to feel that we matter to others. We need to do meaningful activity. And more and more things indicate that this has a clear connection with people's mental and physical health. Culture is of great importance to the individual. It gives experience, it gives content and meaning in life. Cultural participation is also likely to trigger physical activity that has a positive effect on the body. Research shows that cultural participation affects both physical and mental health, as well as the experience there and then. The HUNT 3 study provides evidence that those involved in cultural activity experience better health, are more satisfied with their lives and have a smaller incidence of anxiety and depression. Audun Myskja has researched the use of music and other environmental measures in dementia care, and in recent years we have received high-quality studies indicating that systematic participation in cultural activities can delay the development of dementia. It is important to stress that culture has a free role and is on its own, but we also see that it has a great value in society. It helps bring people together, and it creates fellowship. This is particularly important in our day, where the trend towards individualisation and fragmentation in society is increasing. In Swedish cultural plans we see that cultural participation is linked to the preservation and further development of democracy. So we know that there are major social inequalities, both in terms of cultural participation, and in terms of the distribution of health. We have indications that large consumers of health services are small consumers of cultural services, and vice versa that large consumers of cultural services are small consumers of health services. This has been a lot of work over a long time. The Norwegian cultural and health initiative was background to UNESCO's initiative Art in Hospital and was initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Norwegian Cultural Council through 35 projects throughout Norway during the period 1996–1999. The starting point for the initiative was a common value view that participation in meaningful cultural activities contributes to increasing the quality of life and the ability to master its own life situation. The target group was people related to mental health protection, children, young people and the elderly with small networks and other individuals or groups requiring special follow-up. Sweden has also had its own research programme on relations between culture and health because the research area of culture and health often falls between two chairs. The Swedish Cultural Council has established its own cross-sectoral subject area, which is culture and health, and the Minister of Culture and Health agreed to establish a Centre for Culture and Health at the University of Gothenburg, where they, among others, conducts brain research at international level to identify links between music and health. We have many good examples of what culture can do to the individual. Estonian subjects contribute to the development of children’s many languages and to the development of creative, collaborative and healthy children. We have seen examples of children who have challenges to deal with school life, who can flourish when they are visited by the cultural school bag and are given the opportunity to show what they can do in other fields. The project The sound of well-being, where hospital staff sing in choirs, has reduced sick leave at the two hospitals in the North Trøndelag and has led to people across disciplines, who may not have spoken together before, now have become well-known, and you see a greater degree of cooperation. The Nav project We carry yeast it has brought back young people who were outside school and working life, through cultural participation, which provides both mastery feeling, life experience and increased self-esteem by seeing that they can give experiences to others. Then there's the care area, which this interpellation is especially directed towards. One of the main challenges in health services is the availability of services, both resource- and treatment-related. This has also been pointed out by the government in connection with the Reform of Cooperation. Persons with dementia are the largest diagnostic group among users of municipal care services. According to the Health Directorate, measures will be taken for people with dementia at a cost of approx. 18 B.C.E. kr per year in 2020. There will be a dramatic mismatch between the need for elderly care staff and the number of young people who want to do so. In particular, this concerns dementia care. Research and experience show major challenges in the meddling of dentures. The effect is controversial and major adverse reactions have been identified. The Government is writing in Message. Art. No. 29 for 2012–2013 the following: ‘In order to develop a forward-looking and good care service, there is a need for greater emphasis on activation both socially and physically and more attention to the social, existential and cultural needs of users.’ We have many good examples to build on in this work. Trondheim Municipality is in the forefront of the Cultural Spaserstick. NaKuHel in Asker has done a good job of connecting nature, culture and health. Bergen Røde Kors is a preliminary institution, where singing and music are incorporated as part of a holistic care, and in Oslo we have several pattern institutions, including Paul's home, which do the same. Outer Island of Helsetun in Levanger is a tone-setting institution, where singing, music and dancing are incorporated into daily care. These institutions appear to be very well managed and organised. The results of these institutions are spectacular, with increased dignity for residents and a more interesting working day for employees. In addition, it frees human resources. Drug use is reduced. Outer Island Helsetun reports that sleeping medicine is no longer in use. The interest in working in these institutions has increased sharply. I can also mention that in Levanger, in cooperation with the Norwegian Parkinson’s Association, an innovative rhythmic training program for Parkinson’s patients is being developed. What you want to investigate is whether singing, music, dancing and rhythmic movement can help to postpone admission to Parkinson's patients. The ambition is to link research, education and practice, involving the cultural and health professions. It can provide resource-saving and more varied jobs in health services, increase recruitment to health professionals and increase dignity, especially in the care of dementia. There is still a lot of work to be done in this field, especially in research. There is a need to explore how variation in cultural participation affects public health, to better understand the nature of mechanisms that make cultural experiences have a health effect and to further research on how cultural actions can be implemented in care and care. I look forward to a rich debate in which this important theme is highlighted from both a health perspective and a cultural perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1273	Let me first commend the interpellant that he now needs to get behind the repair sector and look at what resources society has to contribute to good health. We need to think again about how to meet future care challenges and ensure good and sustainable services. It gets more important in the years to come. I am therefore pleased that we are receiving this debate on cross-sectoral cooperation and innovation on the content and use of resources in the care service. The government has recently submitted the morning’s report, which Stortinget will deal with before the summer. It is based on the Interaction Reform and attaches great importance to prevention, early intervention and rehabilitation. With new forms of work and better solutions, many people can cope better in everyday life, despite illness and disability. Tomorrow’s care services shall be developed with users and relatives. Local community and volunteers shall be involved in new areas. New working methods and interactions with family and networks will impose other requirements on the recruitment and organisation of services and on competence in rehabilitation, social networking, culture and environmental treatment. Using art and culture in the care service can serve many purposes – let me say it this way: it serves many purposes. Singing, music and movement can create good community experiences, and cultural forms can be used as a source for finding languages and other expressions of experience and what happens in everyday life. Older people have a long life to look back on and can be themselves active in cultural mediation. Not least, we know that art and culture can have a good therapeutic effect – which the representative was also involved in. Singing and music can dampen the anxiety and depression of dementia. It has been shown that music can reduce the use of psychopharmacies, that relatives are getting more satisfied, and that sick leave among staff is falling. In the light of such results, art and culture should be more widely used to develop new approaches to care services. Here we also have a lot to point to: the cultural walking stick was established as part of the care plan 2015. The aim was to facilitate better cooperation between the cultural sector and the care sector and to help older people get a adapted cultural offer where they live. In 2012, there were 321 municipalities that received funds. Cooperation between the cultural sector and care services will be developed through the cultural spa, including in the coming years. It is important to promote success stories and give new methods the professional status they need and deserve. We will therefore establish an environment of competence for the development and dissemination of environmental therapeutic measures that can stimulate municipalities to test day-to-day rehabilitation models. The municipality of Levanger, to which the representative has a certain connection, has long been a key cultural and health municipality and a national focal point in this area. Therefore, the National Centre of Competence in Culture, Health and Care should be added to Levanger. It is assumed that the Centre cooperates with other professional and research environments in the field, including: National Centre of Expertise on Ageing and Health, which has developed the ABC of environmental treatment for dementia care. I would also like to consider the use of consensus conferences on new methods and treatments and to publish quality assurance results on existing web portals. The government will set up a programme to develop and implement welfare technology, as we have been faced with earlier today. The Programme shall stimulate cooperation between municipalities, businesses and research, innovation and development environments. Such tripartite cooperation is necessary in order to create good welfare technology solutions. The aim is to ensure that welfare technologies become an integral part of care services by 2020. Voluntary forces are another important resource in the care service. The Government will establish a national voluntary strategy to recruit and retain volunteers in the care sector. Increased voluntary participation can strengthen social networks and reduce solitude for many people. We will support the recruitment, organisation and training of volunteers. The strategy shall be developed as a cooperation between the local government sector and the Freewill of Norway. Here my department has close contact with the Ministry of Culture. The paper also includes a reinforced commitment to research and innovation. An innovation programme up to 2020 shall contribute to new working methods, new organisational solutions and forms of living adapted to tomorrow. The innovation programme shall be based on three elements — national, regional and local. Let me mention them: we need to strengthen the regional research and development structure of care services; we need to involve innovation and research institutions at national level; and we need to strengthen efforts for research, innovation and development work in municipalities. With such innovation and renewal, we will continue to invest in the Community solutions we have built up in Norway. We should not only defend but also develop the welfare state. We're already on it. Through the revised national budget for 2013, we have proposed to allocate 100 million. to follow-up on tomorrow's care. Among other things, the money needs to be made available: go to the programme for the development and implementation of welfare technologies and innovation, to the volunteering strategy and to the launch of that centre of excellence in Levanger. One of the most important tasks of care services is to ensure that life can be lived to the full, despite sickness and disability. There's a difference between getting services to survive and getting assistance to live a good life. Therefore, we need to strengthen active and rehabilitating care and develop and disseminate methods of environmental treatment. The challenges of the future in the care sector must be met by using resources in new ways – with innovation, more research and new forms of work and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1307	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for showing great commitment to this important field. He points out that the government has already taken action that gives cause for optimism and believes that there will be increased investment in this, and – as the Council of State says – that it wants to signal an increase in the use of new methods. It is also important to bring forward the importance of the cultural spa. One of the favourite stories of former Minister of Culture Trond Giske was the example of the time the cultural spa visited institutions, where employees reported on a number of forgotten rollers when the concert was over. People had been upset and almost forgot that they needed help. This, of course, is at the head, but it has great effect. I would like to imagine in this debate that we are highlighting how we can further develop the cultural spaser stick to even greater extent to trigger the activity of the elderly, so that one can see a more lasting effect of the great effort we have from the state. Then I'm also very happy that the Council of State mentions Levanger in particular. We are proud of the work done, of the fact that the government has seen it, and of seeing to those degrees the enormous power that can lie in this work – that it has been suggested that the Municipality of Levanger be given responsibility for being a national centre of competence in culture, health and care, and that it should be done together with the University of Nord-Trøndelag, the HUNT Research Centre, the Nord-Trøndelag County Municipality and the Health Nord-Trøndelag and – in addition – the doctor and music therapist Audun Myskja. We are proud not only to signal this, but also to be able, through the revised national budget, to give 2 million. kr for start-up. I would have liked to hear how the Council of State might think of being involved and contributing to this start-up, and what a time perspective one sees. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Minister of Culture has signaled that she wants to contribute to the debate. I would like us to have a debate about the opportunities of volunteers to participate and contribute to a worthwhile care for the elderly. We know that there are many who want to contribute, we know that there are great forces in the communities that want to contribute, and we know that it has a great effect when children, young people and volunteers are around the institutions and – not least – are together with the elderly, but also contribute to a more dignified and secure care for the elderly. So I look forward to a further debate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1325	As far as Levanger and the bet there is concerned, it is – as the representative says – something that we have already started in the revised budget. I'm going to visit Levanger during June and I'm going to see if there's any chance of taking this up and putting it on the agenda there, with the many competent institutions that the representative referred to. I want to say that this by spreading good experience I think is one of our greatest challenges. What made the impression on me was a visit to Bergen Red Cross's Hospital, where we saw how music was used in dementia care. There was documented experience before the use of music, and after. It was documented on film, with the relatives' acceptance, and it was partly catchy illustrations of a very upstretched, traumatic day in front, where demented persons woke up with a roar of pain and frustration, and there was a high level of tension throughout the day both for patients and for staff. We then saw how music was introduced in the treatment and the daily routine – and everything changed. At the top of it, there was also a significant decrease in the use of drugs and a significant increase in the level of satisfaction among relatives. The sum of that one has reason to believe also makes it better for patients. There is no reason why good experience should be limited to the nursing home. But how do we have mechanisms to spread it? It's been one of the themes of that announcement, tomorrow's care. So I'm glad of all that we've been going on, and that the Minister of Culture and her field has been working with us on. We need to increase our ability to spread it, and we need to even expect such good experiences to be used in many other areas. So I hope that will be some of the result of the message. So I also want to stress this with the volunteer, because it has two sides. One is to identify new care resources as well as those that are. So it's not voluntary as a substitute, but as a complement to what we have – to constantly have to develop skilled professionals in this sector. But it's also about volunteers who contribute to something that no one else can contribute, contributed from the outside to a world that can be shut down, namely open doors out. There are also many good examples. We have to do what we can to make these examples get good legs to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1336	The self-esteem of culture is quite fundamental, and at the same time culture has added value for other areas of society. Art and culture as an instrument in health care have been known since antiquity. Aristotle thought that the long theater performances at that time lutra shela. In Håvålmål, one point to «My pangs... help you will against matters and sorrows and suck all». The representative Stokkan-Grande is therefore part of a long and proud tradition when he takes up the relationship between culture and health. One in four Nordics says they're lonely. A large international study shows that having few veins has the same health risk as being an alcoholic or smoking 15 cigarettes a day. We cannot adopt municipal friends or decide that people should feel included. But we can make it easy to participate, easy to participate. Welfare is not just public good. Well-being is also closeness between people, there are experiences that make impressions, and it's the possibility of self-expression. The representative, Stokkan-Grande, was concerned about the nature of volunteering for both physical and mental health. The representative may know that the Ministry of Culture this week has what we call a week of volunteering. This means that every day this week we take on different topics related to volunteering in order to promote it, highlight the importance of research in this area, the importance of simplification in this area, so that volunteering is best served. Today I had a consultation at St. Hanshaugen's volunteering centre, together with various people who have experience in recruiting older people for volunteering. What we see from the statistics in this area is that there are more and more of the ageing population who are volunteers, and that very many in that part of the population are expressing that they are experiencing it as a very positive thing to be able to be with that way. We also know that our society is facing major demographic changes, where there will be more elderly people living longer than before having better health, and that means that volunteering has more possibilities ahead to recruit even more in this part of the population. It has meaning for society as a whole, because it's the individual person that this is about, who has experience and knowledge that is necessary and useful in meeting other people. But not least, it also has meaning for the person who is himself there as a volunteer, that one experiences the maesterdom that it sometimes involves, the exchange of knowledge that it entails, the strengthening it provides, and the approval that it implies for the individual to be in that role. There I got a lot of good impressions that I think can also be important in working on the framework conditions of volunteering in the future. The theme of culture and health concerns me for several reasons, because it is about giving people in this country better health and a better life, but not least it is about completely fundamental things like participation and democracy – that is, everyone has to have a voice in society. It's also about that as a society we need everyone who lives here. We have to do what we can to make everyone feel the best possible. These include: to ensure human dignity, self-confidence and the ability to build themselves the life they want. Participation in cultural life and help to express oneself through artistic expressions can do wonders for the individual. Good experiences of chimpanzees can break mental barriers, and it can also provide new opportunities for development. The cultural spaserstock is already referred to. It is a good example of cooperation between departments in this area. What the cultural spaserstock is all about is, among other things, the cultural spaserstick. local authorities develop a variety of genres and cultural expressions for the elderly. This means, for example: that in the municipality of Rana, a 101-year-old lady experiences attending a concert with musicians from the cultural school. The concerts that are organised give her, other older people and add to that institution experiences, joy, well-being, while at the same time helping to create important social arenas. There are also a number of studies confirming the link between access to culture and good health. The study of health in Nord-Trøndelag concluded that people using cultural services feel better health, are more satisfied with life, and have less anxiety and depression compared to people who are not so preoccupied with culture. Several studies have analysed the impact of participation in non-governmental organisations. Here, too, findings are related to fewer symptoms of depression and better experienced health. Age and life situation are important for whether voluntary involvement has a positive impact on quality of life. What they see from the study is that young people and older people differ particularly positively — so it has a particularly good effect on these age groups that a good way to provide voluntary work is to lower the thresholds for participation as much as possible. The Nordic cultural minorities have also recently set DKK 600 000 in 2013 as a one-year cultural and health monitoring project. The project shall identify efforts undertaken and implemented in the Nordic region, identify existing Nordic and international research, and provide perspectives on future needs in this area. It is a work I look forward to with great interest. It is clear that we can gain experience from our Nordic neighbours, as the representative Stokkan-Grande was also involved. Winston Churchill once said: «First we shape our buildings. Then they mold us." The quote I think is about how we meet in everyday life, it matters how we feel. What limits we experience are set – whether they are physical, mental or emotional – plays a role in the experience of freedom, and not least it plays a role in health. These perspectives, I think, are important when we're working on the topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1369	Thank you to the interpellant who has highlighted several challenges we face when it comes to health, which requires innovation, change and transformation, and not least cooperation, in several areas in the future. Interaction reform is at an early stage, but it is nevertheless clear that the challenges are almost in line, there are challenges in higher numbers of older or more younger people with different lifestyle diseases requiring increased resources for treatment and prevention — and not least more with dementia diagnosis. We're going to bet on prevention from day one in the municipalities and otherwise in the community, but one knows well that prevention brings little results there and then. It takes time to see healthcare savings from prevention. When one knows that it is the municipalities that have to take the greatest responsibility for their own population in prevention and health care, this will require a good community economy and tough priorities. The interpellant focuses on health challenges, and that one needs to cooperate across sectors, which I believe will and should force itself forward. Dementia, which the interpellant mentions, is and becomes formidable for years to come. It'll be research and thinking, something that's good. We as a nation must listen to other countries with regard to dementia care. Although many are good at both treatment and care of dements in own countries, we need to look ahead and talk to others. We've seen that culture, and especially sensory treatment, is essential in dementia care. Many have built sensory spaces and sensory gardens and included much culture in the form of music and physical activity in the treatment and care of demented people. All of this leads to calmer dents, which are perceived by those around them as a great and important quality of life for the individual. One also sees that relatives and associates have good experiences in life together. Not least this is good for the working environment. The availability of different types of cultural field for these patients is currently very common in some municipalities, but is close to absenteeism in other municipalities. This should be systematised, and one must ensure that such provision and interaction between health and culture is provided throughout the country. At the same time, we have to try out new technologies and new forms of care, acquire new knowledge and change new disciplines quickly – both organisational and physical. One must also be able to consider inviting other challenges into different health educations, so that one who already builds knowledge bridges with the same objective of good health and care for the elderly. Another important input into future care is the need for volunteers in voluntary organisations. Voluntary efforts need to be strengthened and better integrated into the care of the elderly than they currently have. We need to coordinate different organisations and invite them to join forces for future care for the elderly. It is also necessary to provide stable conditions for service providers – not only in the short term but also in the longer term. Good frames over time are worth gratitude from the state to the volunteers, which one should punish. The Progress Party will strengthen the municipal economy in order for municipalities to meet the challenges. Local authorities are also best placed to cooperate with the different organisations – as they know in their own municipalities. One must appreciate those who think new and try new and good solutions, which in turn generate good care for the elderly. This is why it is important, also on the side of the framework, to focus on good innovative projects and not least to invest in the addition and recruitment of new employees and to facilitate and encourage further training within the care of the elderly. Today's relatives are other contributors for the future. Many senors have great potential and want to contribute to their own as well as to others. Many people get out of retirement early, but want to contribute. This is why it is important to provide close care in your own family and friends; with good relief, care pay, care allowance and good leave arrangements for those who are still in work and who are well able to take care of their needs – that they are given the opportunity to do so. Maybe over time we have to look at leave on the same line as at birth and look at possibilities with some kind of family leave over time. I don't think anything should be out of the question when it comes to elderly care, especially when it comes to the demented, which is a growing group. And then finally, I'll call it the cultural walking stick that we're positive to. But there's one thing I don't have: one might forget those who live at home. It's an incredibly large group of dents that may not get the same supply as those in the institution. But they also need the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1392	This is an interesting and important interpellation. He is directly involved in the work that is now being done in the Health and Welfare Committee on the review of tomorrow's report on care. He also fits in with the government’s report on education and training of health professionals for the future, which was addressed last year — the report on education and training for well-being and the need to get more professionals into care. As the interpellant says, cross-sectoral cooperation and innovation on content and resource use in the care service are now important. In the big news of tomorrow’s care, there is a strong focus on the topic of ‘active care’, which means that we need to focus on the social content of supply and on an active everyday life. The cultural spaserstock is called by several. It is clear that this can help older people to get a adapted cultural offer where they live. This is important and means a lot to them, and it is a system that needs to be developed further. I am strongly in favour of strengthening cultural provision as a therapeutic method in treatment – i.e. using song, music and movement as an integral part of treatment, especially for demented people. The results given here have been mentioned, and they are quite eye-catching, among other things. by reducing the use of medicine and giving it a simple life and a better everyday life. We need to have more of this, and I am pleased with what is being announced in the care notification – that there will be a national competence centre in Levanger, and that there will be consensus conferences to integrate these new methods across the country. That will be very necessary. I would like to say that this with song, music and movement has an effect. We are concerned with research results, but this is something that has been used for generations for our elderly and our children. We have rich song traditions in schools and communities. It's just to build on what we have, and be aware that it actually also has a value for health, which we might not have been so conscious of. I was visiting a daily service in the municipality of Sund last Friday. Every Monday they get a visit by a person who comes and sings and plays the piano with them. It's the height of the week. They're looking forward to it, and it's very positive. These are people with beginning dementia. This is unlikely to be good, and many people are using this today. It is not that this will be applied. There's actually a lot of places going on. In the end, I would like to remind you of the cultural expression that Anne Enger and the selection she led presented. They launched the ‘cultural base wall’ – that one should strengthen the cultural base wall. I see this initiative that is now emerging, as a desire from the interpellant to strengthen the cultural core wall of the community, out among children and young people, and out among the elderly living in the everyday lives of the elderly. It's going to apply to the whole community, and it's going to happen locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1407	I'm very pleased with this interpellation. It addresses a theme that is widely embedded in the work of government, and is based on the recognition that we are thinking, feeling, cultural and spiritual creatures throughout life, from cradle to grave. This recognition is expressed in several communications submitted by the government and through the implementation of concrete policies. Tomorrow's care, as the Minister of Health also spoke about, is based on the recommendations of the Hagen Committee on how to think new and untraditionally about care and care in the future. At the same time, it is important to talk about how many good initiatives are already in place regarding the interaction between culture and health, about the experience we have gained, and about what we already know, about the positive relationship that can be shown here. When my father came to a nursing home, 85 years old, I was a travelling musician on a tour, and the first thing my father said when I came to visit was the following: «But the docks are coming here and ringing for us, because here at the hospital that needs it the most.» Unfortunately, we did not get into the hospital where my father was on that tour, but both before that time and in the years after, I have had the pleasure of singing at many nursing homes and centres, and I have been completely overwhelmed to see what the song can do with especially older denments. It's almost like a little miracle when people who have lost both the ability of speech and the words themselves suddenly come to sing all the verses on «Children's Memory from the North» or «Come May, you see, mild». Because something happens when the song, the most personal instrument we have, becomes the key needed to unlock the door to the room where the language has hidden and almost disappeared. I have been deeply moved and affected by such experiences. Others have been working scientifically and systematically to find out what really happens when music in this way can almost lift gravity. Music therapist and doctor Audun Myskja, as several have mentioned, has taken his doctoral thesis on the use of music in the care of demen's spaces. He has, among other things, concluded that just singing, as part of daily routines, is of great help to demente. This is the first time that some people in Norway have studied the type of music treatment that works on denments over time. According to Myskja, it is important that it be sung, not just organized, but at any time when care and patients associate. The message from Myskja is that you don't need special training. You don't even have to have a nice voice. If you sing under the board of dementors, the patient will relax, calm down and have memories back. Several hospitals, as several have mentioned – the Red Cross in Bergen and the South Tromsø Islands in Tromsø – have seen that the medication has declined with the systematic use of music. The big challenge is how to ensure that the experience we have gained in this field is more systematically put into practice and not just the efforts of some firefighters. We just have to admit that the almost eye-catching results of the use of culture — and especially music — in the care of sick and demented people have not had a sufficiently wide learning effect. I hope and believe that the new innovation strategy that the message of tomorrow's care will address – national, regional and local – can do something about this, which was also addressed by the Minister of Health. This government has granted $30 million. kr for a fabulous bet called the Cultural Spaserstick. There is a system that has made sure that many elderly people, nursing homes and elderly people living at home have been visited by artists who have offered great experiences for a large audience. Until now, it has been the individual municipality applying to the Ministry of Culture for support for projects. It was probably a proper organization when you started, because you wanted to gain concrete experience from the bet. Now I think it's time to change this. I have suggested, even in the meeting with the Ministry of Culture, that the cultural spaserstock should now be organised more in line with how the cultural school bag is organized. I think that the counties can have a clear responsibility, and that ideas for good projects can come from municipalities, counties and artists themselves. The most important thing is that good projects are automatically offered to several or all municipalities in a region or a state where artists perform and tour. This is the way to get the most out of the projects financed. I am pleased with this debate and I am looking forward to a stronger celebration in our country for the basic humanistic idea that we are cultural and spiritual creatures throughout our lives, from cradle to grave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1424	Like previous speakers, I would also like to endorse the fact that such an important issue as this is being put on the political agenda. Culture creates joy, it can provoke and make us cursed, yes, culture is well about life in an enlarged perspective. It says, a good laugh prolongs life, and through this one sentence, both culture and health are well-united. So far in the debate, we have received many good examples of what has been done to the country around. But in this article I want to look at how new technology can affect the development of culture at good and bad – and perhaps most recently. Maybe I'm moving far beyond what the interpellant wants to focus on, but in a perspective of how good experiences contribute to the good life, we've been through care technology, and we've also been within the cultural walking stick. I want to spend time on another ‘handhold’, namely on joysticks, and what they can be used for. Then I think in particular about the development of game technology. There's been some development that has started with a good experience, and then it's gradually turned into something negative. Culture simply becomes unculture, which in turn can affect my health and your health negatively. Prevention is the cornerstone of the Cooperation Reform – the earlier, the better. When we see how developments are going, especially in the field of games, it is important that we also put this on the political agenda in a debate like that today. New technology will move you into a cyberworld where you're the boss. From having control to losing control, the road is short. We have too many examples of how bad things can go, both in the world and here in the country. We experienced the unmistakable almost two years ago, which ended with 77 people having to give their lives to – in my view – a madman's actions. During the trial, it was found that the entrance to the tragedy began with an innocent stay in the cyberworld, but ended up as a disaster in the real world. Never had it happen again. It is estimated that 50 000 people in Norway have problems with gambling. Young men are the hardest hit. The majority of those who struggle have experienced that gambling affects work, education, family, relationships or friends. It is also not uncommon to experience anxiety or depression in the context of gambling addiction. The problems do not exist only where money is an input. Children and young people are spending more and more time on computer games. In fact, as much as one third of boys in high school play computer games every day, show numbers from NOVA. 12 pst. of which, more than three hours a day are spent on games. This is a negative social development: from a situation where it was previously natural for children and young people to have a very active and diverse everyday life, to where we are today, how many have a passive everyday life, with the challenges it brings both socially and healthly. Network usage can be challenging. In addition to the games and the challenges that I have addressed so far, I would also mention that unfortunately we have too many examples of overreaching the abuser's network to get in touch with children, which could lead to violations and physical abuse. Too many children and young people are exposed to online bullying. It happens at all times of the day, and it is often invisible to adults. We can all understand how tragic it is when such things happen. It's bad, especially for those who are close to them, but also for those who are close to them. We must take this development seriously. Each of us can contribute, and that is precisely what the interpellant is asking — how can we work together in a cross-sectoral way to change such a development? When we talk cross-sectorally, are we just thinking about what public can do? I believe that we need to expand the concept of "cross-sectoral" to embrace me and you as well. An important arena, for example: around the kitchen table, where parents and children meet, and to communicate across generations in meetings with school everyday life, in meetings with voluntary teams and organisations. That's why it's a little important that we now also put this side of culture on the agenda, because it hits too much, too many, and too many children and young people get a terrible bad start on their adult life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1444	I would also like to thank the representative for addressing an important question and moving into an area that I understand can be difficult to move into, because this is a profession to which one has not previously discussed alternatives. We have the volunteering in the municipalities, we have the volunteering locally, and this may be one of the most important things we have in this particular area around the country. We have local theater groups, we have local singing choirs that contribute within this area. The culture gives added value to the municipality, and it creates a prosperity in the municipality that we have to take care of. But I think it's important that Stortinget sees its constraint and lets the municipality develop this offer, which everyone agrees is so important. You have seen that culture has added value around the country, and you now want to spread it. When it comes to treatment with culture, we don't just talk about the elderly; we see sick children under care who also benefit from this. We see mentally ill young people being treated with music – they get to practice music, they get to sing in choirs, they get a sense of mastery in music that they haven't had before. Yes, it has even been seen that it has been positive to treat young people living in institutions, with culture and music. Everyone has lived in the elderly living in an institution, but we should not forget older people who live at home. This is a group that can be hard to get out, and that's also hard to get into. I believe that this can be a good step for them, but then we must also give the municipalities an opportunity for this. Music as a therapeutic aid is what we're really talking about – and just on good terms! Culture should be a complement to health care and treatment, but when you see that the same has been applied to Danish soldiers in Afghanistan – music in their sound cushions was used as an aid – you realize that there are great opportunities here. So I hope that this debate and the topic we're about to discuss doesn't become a kind of a professional struggle, that there's only one group that can deal with, but that we can move further out to find all the opportunities to get people healthy. We have to dry to move. We also know that there are therapists around the country who are not trained in health care, but who can be involved and contribute precisely within the area we have now discussed. So once again, thank you very much to the representative for addressing this topic. I hope we dare to move beyond what we have done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1459	I thank the Chamber for a good debate, where the topic is highlighted from many different angles of incidence. After hearing Mr. Kåre Simensen's comments on gambling policy, I think we can encourage older people to form a bridge club rather than play online poker. It's social, it's something that keeps the brain going, and according to the smoking law, it's probably also good for folks to play bridge! Several have highlighted the importance of culture for people's health, both physically and mentally, and I am pleased that more people see that perspective. When we know how important this is to people's lives, it is important – at least for me as a social democrat – that we ensure that we spread this to as many people as possible, so that as much as possible the opportunity to participate, to experience, to master. The call must be for the emancipation of the cultural policy of the future – that a local cultural promise be made, that voluntary action be taken, that the forces in each individual who wish to contribute to their community be triggered, that the resources of the Council of Culture may also be geared towards the perspective of culture/health, and that the system of the Cultural Spa can be further developed. I agree with the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen that here there is a potential both to reach more people and not least to activate more elderly people. Then I agree with Councillor Jonas Gahr Støre that many of the examples we see – people who get the opportunity to have a one-off or a long-term effect – are very touching. We've seen video of a hard Parkinson's framed older man who just by using a metronome, a timer, after a short while goes like a 40-year-old. You don't believe your own eyes. We have heard examples of older dentures that you had to have three people to lay at night because of anxiety, fear and fear, and where – by singing with the demente – you now just need to be one person. It increases dignity, and it is important for the patient and the relatives, but also for the employees, that they also see that they can contribute something to other people, and that they also feel a mastery. Therefore, it will be an important responsibility for the new national competence centre to ensure that the good examples are well disseminated. I am very pleased with the signals from the Council of State regarding the exchange of experience and experience, for this work must not only be dependent on the fires. It is important to disseminate the good examples and to find mechanisms to disseminate and implement them in other institutions. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1478	There has been a good debate, and it has also brought forward a number of new perspectives, such as: to write the representative Stokkan-Grande into a long tradition of Aristotle! It gives cause for concern, and I also see that the representative has introduced a replacement for the cultural spaser stick, namely the cultural tie, which gives thought to the importance of the music. I think the debate has been good, and that it has illustrated a dimension that we often don't discuss when we talk about care and health, and I don't have much to add to the debate, other than perhaps one comment to the representative Thomsen, who talks about doing everything we can to get people healthy. I think a lot of what we've been discussing here today is a little bit beyond that, because culture doesn't necessarily help to make people healthy, but it helps to increase the mastery of what it means to not have full health. Culture can also contribute to what makes people healthy, but the great potential, I think, is to give life content and vitality to people who have to accept that they do not have full health, and then increase the mastery. We are also betting on this, and we have been illustrated by many examples, and I am very pleased that the Minister of Culture has also taken part in the debate, because so much of the instruments and commitment are in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1485	Then there's case no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1501	The experience with mobile x-rays from hospitals to hospitals is very good, especially for patients, the sickest of the elderly. It is people with many diagnoses, many are in the final phase of life, and many have dementia. For the sickest elderly, transportation to hospital, either in an ambulance or a taxi, as well as waiting time at the hospital before and after the examination may involve a heavy burden. This may in many cases be three to five hours. Hospital providers have the same rights and treatment requirements as the rest of the population. Nevertheless, several reports have raised considerable criticisms about the lack of health services to the sick home. How does mobile x-ray work? Mobile x-ray means that a radiograph has an x-ray device on a telltale that can be driven into a car. The apparatus is transported to a nursing home where a doctor has requested an X-ray. The X-ray is taken to rule out or confirm the suspicion of a breach or other matter. The X-ray image is then sent electronically to the hospital, where a radiologist interprets the picture and sends a message back to the hospital doctor about what the picture shows. A nursing home doctor in Fredrikstad Municipality writes in his evaluation of the mobile x-ray: From my point of view, as a doctor at a nursing home, this is an offer I have missed. It is clear that you are hesitant to take the X-ray when this generates a significant apparatus in order to have the study carried out in practice, and you add the list more definitely before you claim it. An argument that has been against mobile x-rays is that doctors will demand far more research than before. To some extent this is enough right, but from my findings this is probably more because we have previously claimed too few. Studies carried out show that there are large economic and human gains from such an offer. Yes, as one of the hospital doctors I've been talking to, it says: professionally, this is a very good and useful offer both for patients and for society. As I see it, the use of radiological x-rays is good. It provides a welfare benefit for the normally very ill patients by not having to move and by getting a proper diagnosis directly in the hospital. It is an advantage for the hospital and its other patients that a caretaker is not required to accompany a patient to a hospital. It is an advantage for the hospital in that it does not have to plan and arrange the logistics of nursing homes during the hours they are at the X-ray hospital. And fourthly, there's an advantage for society by using ambulances for other missions. ‘As a summary, I would like to say that overall, this is such a good medical offer for society that we cannot let this crash into economic disagreement between levels of government. This just can't happen. It would just be sad, and for the whole health care system very fluent." – These were not my own words, but a quote I have borrowed from one of the health professionals who are standing up to the countless challenges every day, stretching as far as they can to help and care, and they see the need for mobile x-rays. It's amazing how new technology offers new opportunities. At the same time, new technology requires us to organise services in new ways. In many cases, funding systems prevent this from being done. Radiological services such as X-ray are the responsibility of specialist health services. Today, this is done both in hospitalised patients and in outpatient settings, i.e. that patients arrive at an appointed hour in the hospital. The hospital is responsible for transporting the patient to and from the hospital. Already in 2005, both the human and economic effects of mobile x-rays were clarified. We know that mobile x-ray services provide opportunities for gentle and good medical investigation and treatment of hospitalized spaces. Mobile x-rays are cheaper than stationary x-rays in most cases within a distance of approximately 1 000. 100 km between hospital and hospital. It's a saving of approx. 30 pst. per study, the studies show. The economic gain is due to those who pay for transport and imaging, i.e. the hospital and the municipality that no longer need to send the escort to the examinations. It's been nine years since we got the knowledge of the effects of mobile x-rays. So far, mobile x-rays are established or during establishment six places in the country. About 20 municipalities participate in a spice layer with their hospital and can therefore offer this service to their hospital wards. The hospital in Vestfold has chosen a model for financing the offer over the next three years. But these municipalities will eventually pay for this service. No funding system has been provided for the offer, and neither hospitals nor municipalities are obliged to operate this cooperation project – if we can call it that – for the benefit of our sickest elderly people in hospital homes. Hospitals and municipalities will cooperate in a number of areas. Co-operation involving fissile layers is unpredictable and vulnerable. Good measures may be stranded because the parties do not agree on the cost allocation or the measure may cease if either party withdraws. It can quickly end in a black player game that no one's earned, least of all the patients. We know that some people think that mobile x-rays do not pay off for the hospitals – because there are increased costs and burdens for some departments, while others get the benefits – while many municipalities believe that the service is a responsibility for the specialist health service, and thus they are irrelevant. My question today is whether the Council of State sees the need to clarify the responsibility for using mobile x-rays where appropriate, geographically and in terms of population, and to stimulate this well-documented offer through the funding mechanisms of hospitals. We cannot fail to roll the x-rays out to the nursing homes when we know what it will save in human burden, what it will ensure by the important diagnosis of sick people, how it will relieve the ambulance service, and what it will mean by economic saving for society. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State consider any specific funding of mobile x-rays in regulations regulating the financing of outpatient radiology? Yeah, it's technical, but let's stick to the human, and we'll probably figure out where it's going to happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1546	Mobile x-ray services are part of the Code for the Financing of Outpatient Radiology. There is currently no special funding for mobile x-rays, but it triggers both normal reimbursement from the state and excesses from the patient. Let me put it this way: I have not yet considered introducing a separate special scheme with a separate legislation in this area, as I think the interpellant well described the potential and the significance. But I think we have to make sure that we do not create unnecessary bureaucracy in an area where we want to see a development, because there is an alternative. We know that there are under-consumptions of radiological studies in elderly and nursing homes that are too sick to travel. It was well illustrated by the interpellant. We see that patients with dementia can get worse if they have to be transported to hospitals. Mobile x-ray services give the population greater proximity to diagnostic services and faster treatment if necessary. We also see that mobile x-rays through increased professionalism and improved documentation strengthen the quality of medical care. Early clarification may prevent hospitalisation. This is right to the core of the cooperation reform and to the thinking behind the cooperation reform. I believe that the reason why we are seeing developments in this area now, and to a lesser extent in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, is that it is now the thinking of the Cooperation Reform that applies — both with instruments, incentives and its like. In Health South-East Akershus University Hospital and Oslo University Hospitals have established such offers. Vestre Viken and the Hospital Vestfold, on which the interpellant was involved, are in the process of establishing such offers in projects. In the Health West there is an offer of mobile x-ray services at Haraldsplaats Diakonale Hospital. Where mobile x-ray services are currently provided, this is often financed through a cost sharing between the hospital and the municipalities. I think the representative had a good view that splinter layers are dangerous, because one can stand out, and then there won't be much splinter again. The cost divisions include, inter alia: based on agreements between municipalities and specialist health services — agreements which prove to have many good aspects and which bind the parties. These are once again good examples in the spirit of the Cooperation Reform. At the offer set up at Aarhus, Akershu University Hospital and the municipalities of Lower Rome are covered by 50 pst. Each. There is reason to believe that it is based on a common experience of need and of responsibility. Despite positive experience with mobile x-rays, it has proved difficult to predict the operation of the service. This may be due to the fact that the liability is perceived as unclear, and that the savings associated with mobile x-rays benefit municipalities first and foremost. The offer provides reduced costs for accompanying staff employed in the municipalities, on which the interpellant was also involved. The financial instruments of the Interaction Reform facilitate greater cooperation between municipalities and health-care establishments in the provision of services. Already today, municipalities and hospitals have found appropriate forms of cooperation – often based on such agreements as I mentioned. Mobile x-ray services can be beneficial for society and a good offer for patients — or vice versa — important for patients and therefore some society should facilitate. With the Interaction Reform, we propose that more health care should be provided in municipalities close to where people live. I believe that hospitals and municipalities together need to assess whether local conditions and needs make it desirable to set up such mobile x-ray services. Then, from the government and the big business, we have to make sure that the municipalities and hospitals have enough resources at their disposal to develop good services for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1563	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Council of State does not want to make any own tariffs. The Council of State says that, among other things: here in Oslo and at Ahus has had this for a long time, and that it is in the spirit of the Cooperation Reform. Yes, it is. But I can read in the journal Hold the breath, the professional journal of the radiologists, that it is 14 years since one got the mobile x-ray in Oslo. I really don't think that either this council or so many former Labour Party councils in the Stoltenberg II government can take credit for it, because this came 14 years ago. - But leave it alone. I'm more concerned about looking forward. We have this good service six places in the country – among others. in large municipalities like Oslo and by Ahus – and we have professionally documented that this is good. Then my question becomes to the Council of State if this goes fast enough. In 2005, we received a report from the Research Council that Frode Lærum spent time developing. It said we need new tariffs to get this in place. Has this happened quickly enough after nine years of establishing this in six places in the country? Vestfold has chosen a model where the hospital itself takes responsibility for the first three years. Then it's going to the municipalities. I had hoped that the Council of State would all the more need to put in place its own funding mechanism to roll out these x-rays faster, because it is in line with the Interaction Reform, and it should be in line with a healthcare think set. There's a lot of centralization. This is something that can be decentralised, but economic incentives are needed to achieve it. I think that's where it's stranded. The professionals in this area also say that it's because of the economy it's stranded when we haven't got any more in place in all these years since 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1574	I'm sorry if I've dragged the representative on the toes by not subtracting 14 years from 2013 and realizing that we are then in 1999, and that the Minister of Health is from the Christian People's Party. They must have all credit for it. I have neither drawn myself nor other state councils under Stoltenberg I or II – or III – to take credit for this, for this is a greater effort than that. What I'm trying to say is that the interaction reform in its device and intention — and also gradually with economic instruments — is a very important step in increasing developments in this area. I have therefore been careful to conclude today that we are proposing new tariffs and new rules. But I am also concerned about how we use our tools so that they encourage a development we want to see more of. I will take with me the impressions of this discussion in conversations with the regional health companies about how they care for their responsibilities, and how hospitals conclude agreements with the municipalities as part of the Cooperation Reform. It is in this field of stress that this case lies, namely that it is an offer that comes from the specialist health service and that it is provided in the municipalities. Then we're going to make the forces work as well as possible and hope that we've made progress before the new 14 years have passed. Then we get back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1581	Developments in medical imaging technology are among the most obvious examples of innovation and health care progress. This has been of great importance for good and correct diagnostics. I have experience in health care itself and received education at the time when the X-ray was really X-ray as Wilhelm Røntgen discovered it and received the Nobel Prize in 1901. In the last 30 years, we've had ultrasound, CT, MR and PET/CT. At all stages of development, the first machines were large and expensive and were placed in only a few hospitals. Only 15 years ago, my hospital had to apply to the Ministry of Social Affairs for a concession to get permission to buy one CT. Today the machines are small and much more reasonable, and advanced diagnostics are well distributed throughout the country. Image diagnostics are increasingly being used. While diagnostics based on good medical history and good research in the past was the highest professional practice, the development is moving towards more technology. It is likely that both too little and too much diagnostic imaging is done — little among children, more in the middle of life and less in the oldest in hospitals. Perhaps the birchbone group in the middle of life is training too much and too often comes to the X-ray institute with poor knees, etc. On the other hand, from a nursing home, the threshold for travelling to an x-ray department may be too large. Here we are at the nucleus of the interpellation. Diseases may present themselves differently in the elderly, and diagnosis may be difficult. Therefore, geriatrics and home medicine are specialised disciplines, and image diagnosis is also a necessary part of good home medicine. ‘When’ and ‘how’ are professional decisions and, where possible, the patient himself must be involved in determining the scope of the investigations. But travelling to an X-ray department can be a significant burden. When advanced imaging is necessary, there is no alternative. But for simpler diagnostics, it will be possible in many places in the country to get to the patient. Good examples already exist, either as mobile offers from the hospital or local medical co-locations of hospitals, fixed and outpatient services from the hospital, including imaging. The interpellant has addressed the tariff system as both the problem and the solution. In my opinion, it's a simplification. It must start with the subjects' questions and answers. When is it professionally best to do simple diagnostics on a nursing home? What technological solutions exist? Should there be different solutions depending on distances? Should e.g. all hospitals have x-rays and telemedical connections for both use and interpretation? Based on the professional answers, the municipality and hospital together clearly have a responsibility to cooperate on these solutions. In many places this works well, and I refer to the specific examples mentioned by the Council of State. Volume is a very limited number of X-rays. Hospitals may choose to provide such a service themselves or through agreements with private X-ray institutes, with which they already cooperate and which provide a large proportion of outpatient x-ray services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1598	I think the biggest winner of this interpellation is that all participants have used the universal pulpit. This is a pulpit that I've been using for seven and a half years – I've never been on the other one. Today I have got everyone to attend from a pulpit that we can all use. I'll cross the roof, despite it's flooring. So over to the interpellation theme: I'm probably a little afraid that further, in the case of mobile x-rays on the hospitals, we need the fires. It is those who have managed to achieve this today in six municipalities, which have different reimbursement systems up against hospitals. We need the fires. I had hoped that, in the spirit of the interaction reform, we could make provision for tariffs that made it easy for us to rely so much on the fire souls. I agree with Mr Are Health that this is what we are going to do. But it has already been done through the reports available in this area. It has already put in place Frode Lærum, a longtime champion in this area, and it has created the interpellant for this interpellation. I believe that it is of great value and a great welfare gain for our sick people in hospitals to let go of having to move in order to get the right diagnosis. I believe that it is an advantage for the nursing homes not to have to give up a care that should be accompanied, so that the others in the hospital will receive more treatment that day. I believe that it is an advantage for hospitals not to plan and arrange logistics. I believe that our ambulances can be used for other things than running on missions with people going in and taking an X-ray. I hope we don't wait for 14 years. I hope that before it comes any further. I am confident that the Council of State will take these impressions that we have received in this interview debate, when he is going to talk to the health companies. I hope that there will be a clarification of this in the mission document. I think that's the way to go. Those who are concerned about this in hospitals say that this needs to be clarified in the mission documents, in order to get good effects out of what mobile x-rays are – for the benefit of the patient, who is being treated locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1609	To acknowledge the interpellant, I would like to make her words mine. I think that's a good summary. There's a lot to take with you. So I would like to thank the representative Are Health for giving a very interesting professional assessment of how this is experienced in the clinical everyday life. I think if we're going to see this in a 14-year perspective -- let's take a slightly shorter perspective -- there's a technological development going on here. I've been around many Norwegian hospitals and rehabilitation institutions, and I've seen what is now being done with technology in this area, including with transfer technology. So I think we're going to see a development that will call the fire cells, which we're still going to need, and in a code that facilitates this in a way that allows us to use this treatment provision well for the most vulnerable patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1616	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1630	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government — within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1637	In this case, the representatives Svein Flötten, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Torgeir Dahl, Lars Myraune and Ingerd Schou promote proposals to change the framework conditions for agricultural co-operation. The proposal is twofold. Proposals seek to eliminate specific discrimination between cooperatives, eliminating specific quota ceilings and limits on number and distance. Proposals are also being made for the Storting to ask the Government to ensure that the ban on the rental of allowances if you are involved in joint operations is removed as soon as possible. The proposers consider that these restrictions actually discriminate against the form of co-operation and, in particular, emphasise the rental ban as a special regulation that can be removed quickly. Proposalers point out that agriculture has met and will face major challenges in the next decades. The number of farms producing milk has been reduced by 53 pst. between 1999 and 2011 and the average age of farmers has increased from 48 to 50 years in the same period. The total production of cow’s milk is currently about 1.5 billion litres per year, and about one third of the total production comes from joint farms. The proposers believe that this demonstrates the importance of joint farms for Norwegian milk production and Norwegian agricultural policy, now and in the future. They also refer to Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012 on agricultural and food policy, entitled: ‘A key principle of both EU ETS and other legislation must be non-discriminatory, non-discriminatory and non-discriminatory, regardless of organisational form. The Ministry will therefore continue its work with a view to the common/like quota ceiling for co-operation and single use and other harmonisation of legislation, such as the winding-up of separate number and distance limits for co-operation operations.» The proposers believe that the government's intentions regarding non-discrimination and regulatory harmonisation have not been translated into practical action. The comments in the Committee’s position from the batch to the right state that the proposal is not to be understood in such a way that no quota cap is to be applied to cooperatives. The aim is that single-use units operating together should include the entire production quota for milk into the co-operation operation without delimitation. The current functioning of the allowance scheme will be curtailed if the total quota cap of 750000 litres is exceeded by the allowances of the individual users joining together. As the rapporteur sees it, this is an important clarification. The Committee is united in the view that it is important to harmonise legislation and improve the framework conditions for milk production. However, the Committee acknowledges that these are complex issues, as amendments to the allowances legislation would also have to entail changes to the grant legislation. There are large scale economies of scale for dairy producers and grant legislation has been adapted to a situation where small and medium-sized uses are compensated for similar scale disadvantages. The different productions and regional considerations are also taken into account when differentiating the income-generating subsidies. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party point out that the harmonisation of grants between cooperatives and single use has not been completed and that, up to now, it has provided better framework conditions for cooperatives than single use of the same size in grant legislation. This applies to area grants for roughage, livestock subsidies and severance payments. As regards the removal of the quota ceiling for cooperatives, the Committee points out that there is still a significant unused potential in milk production for cooperatives within current quota limits and maximum number of members. In 2012, there were 76 p.m. of the two or three members of the cooperative. That same year had 60 pst. of the cooperatives an quota of less than 400000 litres and 92 pst. a quota of less than 600 000 litres. The majority of the Committee points out that it has never been intended that the allowance rental scheme should apply to both co-operatives and single use. On the contrary, this scheme was introduced in 2009 as an alternative for single use which chose not to enter joint ventures. If joint ventures are opened up to lease allowances, the result will be that the joint ventures will have to relate to two different regulatory frameworks. It will be very demanding for both producers and agricultural management. The majority believe that repealing the provisions on quota, number and distance limitations would be highly favouring for cooperatives. This would run counter to the majority's objective of a varied structure of use and agriculture across the country. The majority cannot therefore endorse the proposals put forward in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1669	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the orderly and good work he has done, and for having written comments in agreement with the Government fraction. The proposers ask the government to ensure that specific discrimination between cooperatives ceases, so that specific quota ceilings, numbering and distance limits are removed, and also to remove the ban on the rental of allowances if co-operating and that this occurs as soon as possible. The Agriculture Communication stressed that a key principle of both EU ETS and other legislation must be non-discriminatory and non-discriminatory, regardless of organisational form. It has to be admitted that there we are not yet. The Ministry is working on the creation of a common or equal quota ceiling for cooperatives and single use and other harmonisation of legislation. It is an important work that needs to be carried out in a way that ensures that we have simpler and more stable legislation, which ensures farmers more predictability and security for the future, and that will make the management of the system easier. I think that's important. Co-operation continues to have better framework conditions than single use of the same size in grant legislation. This applies to area-related roughage feed, livestock supplements and severance payments. Despite this, there are many co-operatives that are struggling with a worrying economy. As we heard from the case-rapporteur, the harmonisation of the legislation between cooperatives and single use was initiated by the Business Committee, initiated by Mr Bondevik II, and has now been continued by the current government. We in the government fraction are for farmers to cooperate. We are for all kinds of cooperation. We in the Workers' Party are very much for joint ventures. Some of us almost said violently and enthusiastically for joint ventures. We believe that co-operation under given assumptions can be a very good solution in many situations — and in some contexts the only option to do so, for example. milk production is maintained in a built. However, the challenge has been that the costs of outdoor operations, the transport of fertilisers and grass have been underestimated and have become too costly and time consuming in relation to the rationalisation of indoors. It is a natural and important principle that farmers organise their production in the most appropriate way, based on the operational conditions on the farm and how they themselves want to dispose of their resources. In its position on the notification of the agricultural policy, the Economic and Social Committee stated that it would facilitate a varied structure of use, taking into account both traditional family use and the possibility of different forms of cooperation. It is an important objective that takes into account the considerable variations we have here in topography, climate and other framework conditions for agriculture. Occasionally, a few impressions that capping allowances is a significant obstacle to optimising production on some uses. It is considerably exaggerated, in my opinion. I refer you to the statement the rapporteur made in the previous article. Furthermore, it is important to bear in mind that single-use and co-operation allowance rentals are two separate systems of different legislation. If members of the cooperative are to also be able to rent allowances, they will have to deal with two different codes of conduct for the same activity. I don't think it's the way to go when single-use and co-operation legislation is to be harmonised. I think it is important that this harmonisation takes place in such a way that the system itself does not become structural. It is the framework conditions under which the holder must behave when choosing the mode of operation. Here's the sharp distinction between the right parts and the other ones. I get an association with him who was going to bump and harmonise his beard, and who was hurt to cut off his entire chin – it wasn't a beautiful sight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1688	Norwegian agriculture is characterised by environmentally sustainable production and safe food. Norwegian consumers have high confidence in Norwegian-produced food, and an increasing population leads to a need for increased food production. The number of enterprises applying for production subsidies in 2012 decreased by 853 from the previous year, which is a decrease of a total of 1.9 pst. In this context, it is important to facilitate a natural place in agriculture for the forms of organisation which farmers themselves want and choose. The party believes that a joint venture consists of other independent uses, and that the form of co-operation is the way out for many farmers – including smaller ones – to be able to continue their operations. The advantage is that if you are more involved, you will get easier replacement – you can switch. I think it's important for the farmers today that they have the same rights and opportunities as others to get away on weekends and holidays in order to be with the family. The form of interaction is a prerequisite for a still varied structure of use and does not prevent a varied structure of use. It's important. Today we have 1,510 farms, including 4,130 agricultural holdings with quota, and about 465 million litres of milk. There is a significant share of the annual cow’s milk production of well over 1,500 million litres of milk per year. I believe this underlines the importance of cooperatives for Norwegian milk production and agricultural policy, and it is extremely important to facilitate this. Discrimination between single use and cooperatives, adopted by the government, does not stimulate increased food production, but is a reason why the level of self-sufficiency of land-based food products is currently well below 50 p.p., which is contrary to a unanimous increase in the agricultural notification. At that time, everyone agreed that food production should be brought up. The time is ripe for a new agricultural policy that can provide a basis for robust Norwegian food production. It is very important to distinguish, as far as possible, industrial policy and district policy considerations in agricultural policy and to ensure that the farmer regains freedom of nutrition through full ownership and the right to control his own food production. Competition is the key prerequisite for a good entrepreneurship environment, and therefore the established arrangements preventing this need to be phased out, including inter alia. restrictions relating to the organisation and operation of food production and restrictions on the achievement of increased volume production. To succeed, it is necessary to remove quota and concession limits for both single use and joint operations. I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party – alone or together with the Right – has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1705	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1708	I refer you to Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Agricultural and Food Policy, Welcome to the table. Few sectors in Norway are as dependent on policy-makers’ framework conditions as on agriculture. It is therefore positive that the wholesale notification highlights a key principle of both allowances regulation legislation and other legislation, a non-discrimination principle independent of organisational form. I quote from the agricultural message: ‘The Ministry will therefore continue its work with a view to the common/like quota ceiling for co-operation and single use and other harmonisation of legislation, such as the liquidation of separate number and distance limits for co-operation operations.’ It is on this basis that the case has been raised by the Right, for there is still considerable quota discrimination against cooperatives. The upper milk production ceilings for individual uses are at present 412,000 litres, for joint farms the production ceiling is 773,000 litres. For three participants this means an average of 257 000 litres per participant. This discrimination against cooperatives must cease. Specific quota ceilings and number and distance regulation should cease. In addition, the Right proposes that the ban on the rental of allowances be removed as soon as possible. The right considers that it is necessary to facilitate the farmers themselves to determine their organisational form. A joint venture consists of independent use. The form of cooperation is the way many farmers have chosen to continue their operations. 4 130 agricultural holdings have entered 1510 farms with a milk quota of 465 million litres. This allowance is approximately: one third of the annual cow’s milk production of 1,5 billion. liters. This shows the importance of combined farming for Norwegian agriculture. The right has not proposed that joint ventures have more favourable grant schemes than single use, and the proposers do not believe that the total ceiling for joint ventures should be removed, while single use should still have a production ceiling. A non-discrimination principle suggests that three co-operating participants should be able to operate with a cap corresponding to that for single use times three, i.e. 1,236 000 litres of cow's milk per year. Today's quota ceiling is 773,000 litres. Norwegian agriculture needs a simplification of today’s rigid regulatory management. The embellishment can start with the cessation of discrimination against cooperatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1724	There is a broad consensus that we should facilitate agriculture throughout the country. This is part of Norwegian rural policy, but it is also important to sustain Norwegian agricultural production. If small, marginal uses go out of production, productive land is laid down and production capacity declines. If we are to be able to maintain agriculture throughout the country, it is important to maintain a varied structure of use. We need both small and large applications, and we need joint ventures where appropriate. It is therefore important to pursue a policy that facilitates different sizes of use and different forms of operation. To achieve this, it is important to pursue a policy that balances differences of opinion. Agricultural back-up schemes are differentiated in order to smooth out differences due to size of use and districts. They include: for the purpose of compensating small uses for scallopes. In joint ventures, the basis for such scale compensation is lost. The removal of quota ceilings and distance limits for co-operations will favour co-operations rather than single use of the same size. This would be contrary to the objective of facilitating a varied operating structure and usage size. Norwegian topography does not facilitate economies of scale throughout the country. In some of the areas where I come from, West-Agder, and also in some areas of the West, it will facilitate cooperative ventures very often come into conflict with large distances. As a result, energy use is high and not always appropriate, and therefore it is not necessarily optimal to facilitate and prioritise co-operations in a way that favours them over other types of gardening. Otherwise there might be reason to notice some of the comments from the Progress Party. The Progress Party emphasizes that we should release the farmer, but I believe that if we were to make the cuts in the advance arrangements that the Progress Party has put up in its budget proposals over time, it would be more about releasing the farmer from the industry. In large parts of the country – among others where I come from: the South, and also in the West and in Northern Norway, it will be completely impossible to operate agriculture with the leadership of the Progress Party. When the Progress Party talks about releasing the farmer, it's a rhetoric that most farmers have revealed a long time ago. They see quite clearly that releasing the farmer into the Progress Party definition is a way to liquidate much of Norwegian agriculture. Not only are there issues of the abandonment of agriculture in rural areas and hence of centralisation of agriculture, but it will also lead to general centralisation beyond the centralisation of agriculture, because in the light of the loss of the last of its gardens, the possibilities of other activities will also be reduced. Having a built under a critical minimum level of activity, whatever the industry, will be more difficult to feed at all. When there are few people left in the village, it is also not easy to start other activities in other industries, for example. tourism. The rhetorical party of progress is constantly using, to free the farmer, little substance in the broad understanding of what agriculture in Norway is going to be for anything. We are pleased that only the Progress Party is responsible for that policy in this context – although it is also unclear what Right stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1735	The size was adopted last year Meld. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Welcome to the table, where it was set up to take up the whole country, to facilitate increased food production based on Norwegian resources, such as roughage and pasturage, and to continue to be a diversity of farms in Norway, with a varied structure of use, and agriculture throughout the country. Co-operation is one of several possible cooperation solutions in agriculture. The centre lot considers that dairy co-farms shall be subject to the same conditions as single use of the same range of holdings. We are therefore committed to harmonising legislation and improving the framework conditions and flexibility for dairy farming, irrespective of the form of organisation. Harmonisation of single-use legislation with cooperatives has long been part of the agricultural policy debate, but the issue is complex, as changes to the quota legislation will also have to entail changes to the grant legislation. Such harmonisation of the grant schemes between single use and cooperatives was, as is well known, initiated by the Business Committee on the Stortinget, carried out by the Bondevik II Government and followed up by the current Government. The harmonisation of grants between single use and joint ventures has not been completed and, at present, cooperatives continue to have better framework conditions in grant legislation than single use of the same size. This applies to area grants for roughage, livestock subsidies and severance payments. The main income subsidies in agriculture are significantly differentiated in order to balance net income opportunities between productions, use sizes and districts and are intended to compensate small units of scale. There are, as we know, large economies of scale in milk production and, naturally, co-operation will lead to the elimination of the basis for compensating for shellfish. The representatives here propose to remove the specific production ceiling for joint farms. I understand that it is believed that each of the co-operating members should be able to take up to 412,000 litres each into the co-operation. This, combined with the lifting of the number limit for the number of members of the cooperatives, will lead to no longer having a ceiling on how large a cooperative might be. At the same time, the ceiling of 412 000 litres for single use shall be maintained. It is difficult for me to see the logic of this, especially in relation to the relationship between single use and cooperatives where a particular form of organisation is very much favoured, and also to be able to achieve the objective of agriculture across the country. Milk production is currently in operation throughout Norway and is the main production with a view to achieving the objective of agriculture throughout the country. The agricultural notification shall state: ‘The government wants to facilitate a varied structure of use across the country.’ The purpose of the milk quota scheme is to ‘adapt milk production to market outlets’ within the objectives set by the Storting, including rural profile and varied use structure. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the notification, it is therefore necessary to have limits on the size of milk production undertakings. Under the quota legislation, cooperatives may produce up to a ceiling of 773 000 litres of milk, while single use may produce up to a maximum ceiling of 412000 litres. I would like to point out that there is a large potential for production growth within the current system, then 60 pst. the combined farms have an quota of less than 400000 litres and a total of 92 pst. has a quota of less than 600 000 litres. The removal of quota ceilings, numbering and distance limits for cooperatives will greatly favour cooperatives rather than single use as an organisational form. We in the Centre Party believe that this would be contrary to the defined objectives of a varied structure of use and the objective of agriculture across the country and is therefore strongly opposed to such a proposal. The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research has carried out operational reviews showing that cooperatives have a better economic performance than single use of the same size. This applies irrespective of the performance indicator used. Therefore, the centre batch does not consider that there is any reason to amend the allowances regulatory framework for joint ventures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1771	It's exciting to sit and follow the debate. I want to make some comments. In the almost 12 months I have been a State Council, I have traveled around 17 counties – to poultry and elsewhere – and discussed the challenges of Norwegian milk production, and other parts of Norwegian agriculture, and in the business community associated with it. What's been the lead in saying all the meetings I've had? Well, that's the following: we want to get more profitability, get an increased price for the product we deliver. In the previous rounds I was in debate with the Right – which is probably occupied by the major producers in this debate – their opposition to the customs code we did before Christmas, was massive and clear. If we hadn't done this customs procedure, and the customs procedure that was done in the agricultural settlement a couple of years ago, and then in the budget, we couldn't have increased the milk price by 23 cents per litre in the agricultural settlement of the year. 23 øre per litre in a co-operation operation that has 600 000 litres of milk, is worth 138 000 more in earnings. It is this type of grip that Norwegian agriculture is totally dependent on. The representative from the Right is talking about quota caps and doesn't want to have number limits. He wants to base a quota cap of a little over 400,000 liters. Today the number limit is five members. Let's say you want ten members -- to think about a number -- because you think a number of five is too small. So you can take ten times 400,000 liters. Ten times 400000 litres is 4 million litres in one unit of use, i.e. in a crew of perhaps 450 to 460 dairy cows. Today, a Norwegian dairy cow herd – on average – is on some and 20 cows. A large Norwegian dairy cow herd today is slightly over 50 cows. That is the reality today. With the policy put forward by the Right, there will be a completely different structure in Norwegian milk production. You don't talk about having 60-70 cows, you want to have 400,000 liters times some number. You haven't put a roof at all. Then you quickly get units of 400-500-600 dairy cows. Is there such an agriculture we want in Norway, or do we want to use milk production so that we can have an agriculture based on Norwegian resources, spread around the whole of Norway? It sounds very lenient: just remove all restrictions, let go of everything – then everything gets so much better! But what's going to happen is that we're going to get some giga factories involved in milk production, because there's so much big-scale benefits in milk production. And these large-scale factories won't be where we have the best grasslands, they'll be where we have the best cereals. It'll be most profitable over time, even if we have a quota code now. It'll be an attack. Of course, for a person who has a milk quota in Akershus, it would be worthwhile to go in co-operation with people around the whole of Norway – for the right should not have any distance limits. Is there such an agricultural policy we want to pursue? The red-green government does not want to pursue such an agricultural policy. We want to use the milk sector just to enable us to have an agriculture throughout Norway and to harvest grass resources around Norway. That's why we have to use some policy tools. That's why we use, among other things. the quota legislation for having a natural envelope. Then we see from experiences from countries where they have much larger units, that there is also no profitability in large parts of milk production, because they do not have the opportunity to charge a price. Those who are very active in milk production today are totally dependent on having a government that is willing to take the fight for, for example, a good customs protection, which allows those who deliver milk to make money on it. It's not like Oslo Røre's leader, Nikolai Astrup, called it a solid loser. We in the government believe that it is not a solid loss that Norwegian milk producers should be able to charge better for the products they supply. In addition, a little bit goes below 50 pst. of the subsidies on the State budget for the production of milk and meat based on bovine animals. This too, the Right and Advance Party want to gradually reduce – something Torgeirar Tåldal was so proud of in today's newspaper – by 1.5 to 2 billion. kr every year. It will directly affect the economy of those who are engaged in milk and meat production. What the Right Party and the Advance Party call for here, which looks very dependable, is a revolution in Norwegian milk production and a massive attack on profitability in large parts of Norwegian milk production. What Treldal also called for, removing all concession limits, is definitely not wise when you see what, for example. pig production is currently struggling with overproduction, and when it is seen what is currently struggling with egg production, namely overproduction. It is wise to have a concession law, not least for those who have invested heavily and who are currently engaged in a major agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1793	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1796	Food production in Norwegian agriculture has fallen. Today we can produce under 50 pst. by the food itself. Of all those who live 100 pst. of agriculture, which is going to get 100 pst. of its income as a farmer, it is only 6 pst. again. The percentage has fallen from 14 pst. to 6 pst. in two years. With the red-green government, we have a total race. We have race in terms of the number of people who practice the agricultural profession. There is also a significant decline in food production, despite the fact that the Storting agreed in connection with the agricultural notification that there was a desire to do something more and to bring up food production. These are rigid rules, including: for the co-operations, which are regulated. My question to the Council of State Battle Forces Vedum is: Can he explain to me why three people in a co-operation that can each bring in 412,000 litres, cannot be allowed to do just that – in order to run economically – instead of having a quota ceiling?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1803	First, it's important that you be a little careful with the facts when you're asking questions. Production in Norwegian agriculture has not fallen, but there have been more people in Norway. That's why we have a bigger market to produce for. Production in Norwegian agriculture is quite stable, but we're adding up to a policy where we're going to increase production. Last year we produced an agricultural and food report, where we had an ambitious goal of increasing food production by approx. 1 pst. every year. In the agricultural settlement of the year we add up to a production increase of 0.75 pst. If we are to be able to do this, it is not only the administrative changes – which Mr Träldal is calling for – that are the answer. The answer is that it will be profitable to produce food in Norway. And if it is to be profitable to produce food in this cold, wet and steep country, we must have both budgetary resources and market revenue – not what the Progress Party is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1812	When I heard Vedum speaking instead, I began to wonder if we are seeing a policy change here. I want to use the opportunity to quote from Meld. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Agriculture and Food Policy, because it is clear – I thought it was the government’s document – that the Ministry is concerned about non-discrimination between farms and individual decisions. I quote from the message: ‘The Ministry will therefore continue its work with a view to the common/like quota ceiling for co-operation and single use and other harmonisation of legislation, such as the liquidation of separate number and distance limits for co-operation operations.’ That's actually what was Right's proposal, it's kind of a follow-up to the agricultural communication. I wonder if it is such that the Council of State has changed its mind since that message was submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1822	Our long-term objective is to have the same regulatory framework as possible. If you produce 400,000 litres of milk as a single producer, or if you produce 400,000 litres of milk in a joint venture, the framework conditions should be as similar as possible. Today, the framework conditions for co-operation are slightly better than those for single use through the grant system. We have a very close dialogue with agriculture all the time on how to design agricultural policy, and we still think it is right to have a little better grant schemes for farms than we have for single use. It would be interesting to hear if the Right is opposed to it, if they think we should move forward faster, and that we should have had worse grant schemes for cooperatives than we have today. We don't mean that. We believe it is right that we should continue to have better grant schemes for joint ventures than for single use, even though we have a long-term objective that it should be as similar as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1829	Reference is made to the agricultural notification. The representative from the Right did, and so did I in my post. It is said that there should be equal treatment between uses. They also say to have more food production. On my previous question, the Minister replied that there has been no reduction in food production, only more people have become. That shows that you have to adjust. If you think there are more people, but you can't keep up the food production, it's a system error. Then it has to be exactly as the Progress Party claims in the remarks that we have to treat them in a non-discriminatory manner. We see that Tine now shouts the warning of a possible new butter crisis. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: is it better to go out and import the butter that we need from abroad than to give our own farmers the opportunity to do it themselves, make more money and get a better everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1836	The answer to that is obvious. The answer is that the government wants Norwegian farmers to make money to produce milk in such a way that we should be as self-sufficient as possible – including butter. The way to get it done is that it should be profitable to produce milk in Norway. The production of milk in Norway is much more demanding than producing milk in, for example: Denmark. Then we have to use some tools in Norway that make it profitable. That is where I think the Progress Party has a logical flaw, because they are talking about larger and larger units. No one will be in larger units if it's not profitable to produce milk. If it is to be profitable in Norway, where we have a shorter growing season and more foreign terrain, we must both use budgetary resources – the Progress Party has announced a cut of 6 billion. Dr., one should only take it over a few years – and have a customs protection that allows you to take a higher market price in Norway than you can take in, for example. France. If we don't have the opportunity, we don't want milk production in Norway – on a very, very small scale in that case, for drinking milk in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1841	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1844	The debate on this matter and the positions of the various parties are enough to show that there will not be a majority in favour of the proposed representatives. However, I believe it is important to bear in mind that political decisions neither can nor should govern industrial development down to the smallest detail in a free and democratic society. The role of policy-makers is to facilitate and assist the creation of the best possible framework conditions for different industries. The overall development of society, both nationally and globally, together with the initiative and creativity of the individual business operator, will make economic development a dynamic and unpredictable process. I think the few of us 15 years ago would have tipped that the number of active uses with milk production would be more than halved to this day. The violent rationalization and productivity growth in the same period would probably have been expected by the few of us. The agricultural industry, and in particular the roughage-based cattle population with milk and meat production, will certainly undergo major changes also in the years and decades to come. Until now, the traditional operating structure, with an emphasis on individual enterprises, has been characterised by Norwegian agriculture. Those who have chosen to invest in the industry have largely moved to large operating buildings with increased milk quota, larger livestock and widespread use of technology. The dairy robot is becoming the rule rather than the exception in agriculture, the machinery is growing larger, heavier and more efficient. Norwegian farmers have conducted a show in productivity that no other industries are near to match. Where agriculture over several years has had an annual productivity growth of up to 6 p.p., the rest of Norwegian industry has been struggling to break the 1 p.p. limit. However, the medal has a backside: the Norwegian farmer is becoming more and more indebted, he or she is driving his or her feed over more and more distances, and the professional environments are being debilitated as the number of active farmers decreases. The question is whether we are not approaching a limit on how much more productivity it is possible to thin out of an industry where the individual or family practice dominates. Politicians can wish and plan for a varied structure of use and continue to live in rural areas. It has been and are still central objectives of the Christian People's Party. At the same time, it is difficult to predict variables such as young people's professional choices, cost developments on inputs, climate change and, above all, how the creativity and commitment of the Norwegian farmer will take the industry into the future and steer development further. Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers need to be able to produce sufficient quantities of Norwegian high-quality food to Norwegian consumers, regardless of whether they want to play a team or not. We in the Christian People's Party believe that important prerequisites for achieving this are active import protection, solid income growth, favourable investment support schemes and better holiday and leisure arrangements for Norwegian farmers. A one-sided focus on economies of scale, centralization and mechanization we don't think is the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1859	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1873	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1882	I will be presented with the position of the nutrition committee on Prop. 89 L for 2012–2013 on amendments to the Law on reindeer management, which provides for the winding-up of the current system of regional governments and the transfer of the tasks of regional governments to the county councillors. The Purity Board is continuing as at present and is to ensure Sami participation in the public administration of the reindeer management. The Committee agrees to recommend the amendment proposed by the Government. The right has an amendment to Section 1 of the law, which I expect they will make clear for themselves. It is worth noting that the Sameting is strongly critical of the way the consultations with the Ministry have been conducted. The merger also sees the need to improve and strengthen public administration of reindeer management, but is critical of the legislative proposal as it now appears. The summary is of the opinion that the Ministry has not followed the consultation procedures and is critical of the evaluation work with which the Ministry justifies the proposal. The merger concludes by asking for the matter to be stopped, and a new work is being started to investigate the future organisation of reindeer operations. When the Liaison Committee released the proposal for open consultation, no one notified. As rapporteur of the case, I therefore contacted the chairman of the assembly to find out if there was an interest in an informal meeting to discuss the bill and other matters that could have to do with it. I was referred to Ellinor Jåma in the Sametingsrådet with responsibility for sanitation. We agreed to a meeting on 29 April, which I also invited the other members of the nutrition committee to attend. It is important to stress that this is an informal meeting. In some media this is referred to as consultations. It is important to stress that the Stortinget does not have consultations, it is the administration that has – according to more detailed rules. In the meeting it was again invited to stop the matter and send it back to the government. I remind you again that the aim of the changes that are now taking place is to clean up the public administration of reindeer management. In the previous period, the Stortinget adopted changes to the Reinfirmation Act – with a main focus on the internal organisation of reindeer management – and which in reality meant that reindeer operators themselves were responsible for this organisation, including: to decide on the rules of use and on the upper reindeer, which shall ensure ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer management. It is when the reindeers themselves do not do this that the administration must take action under the direction of the reindeer management board. In the proposition that was then dealt with, no decision was taken on the public – or should we say the state – management of reindeer operations. The background to the changes now proposed in this proposition is the result of several evaluations of the public administration of reindeer management after 2000. In the 2001 NOU:35 Proposals for amendments to the Law on reindeer management specifically point to the challenges of stability, the isolation of reindeer management from other management and the difficulty of building up adequate skills. In 2010, both an internal evaluation and a reputational survey were launched. The Committee supports the amendments to the reindeer management law that the government is now proposing. The aim of the amendment is to simplify and streamline management, harmonise and include this management with other government, and to clarify the administrative structure. The change also causes reindeer to become part of the rest of society, not on the side of it. I think the interaction with other management will have an inclusive effect over reindustrial Sami issues. In the proposal, the Ministry says that they will take the initiative to set up a form of regional forum to contribute to dialogue between reindeer management and public authorities and that they will be established in the context of changes in public administration. I think it's a wise initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1905	The Progress Party supports the government's proposal and believes it is good to create new rules to try to make it work better. It is that when you make rules, it is also important to follow them. Some of the problem with reindeer operations is that you have the rules, but you don't follow them up. The national audit has made critical comments every year on the whole field where it is not possible to follow up. I would like to quote from the latest study by the National Audit Office on sustainable reindeer management in Finland, Document 3:14 for 2011–2012: ‘The Purity Act and the Annual Purity Agreements are the key instruments for achieving the objectives of ecological, economic and culturally sustainable clean-up. The study shows that the use of the instrument has not ensured sustainable clean-up.’ Here you can also see that it has not worked as intended. I quote: ‘Other studies show that the instruments are less coordinated to ensure effective use of the instrument and have implications for the achievement of the target. The Act of Purity requires the establishment of operating rules with upper purity. The rules of use are a prerequisite for compliance with the provisions on upper reindeer and grazing. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has not provided sufficient facilities for the rules of use to be drawn up in line with the Law on Reinforcement.’ In other words, a crass criticism by the government and the food minister. And on the other hand, ‘The study shows that it has taken four and a half years to draw up rules of use with upper purity. Furthermore, the study shows that the Reinhriftstyrelet and the State Reinhriftsverwaltungsverwaltung at the start of proceedings in connection with the determination of the upper reinhiliency lack of clarifications from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food related to the proceedings.’ Once again, something that makes it hard to make this work. Quote continues: ‘The investigation shows that the upper reindeer number is to a small extent determined on the basis of all seasonal pastures, as required by the Reindeer Act. A scale that is not adapted to seasonal pastures will not be ecologically sustainable. Therefore, districts need to develop rules of use also for the winter siidae, as provided for in Section 60 of the Reind driftsgesetz, and that the next generation of rules of use for summer pastures take into account the grazing capacity of all season pastures. In order to reduce numbers, reduction plans shall be drawn up. The study shows that neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Ministry of Food, nor the Board of Directors of the State of Reef have drawn up plans or strategies for the preparation and follow-up of the reduction plans. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food must ensure that State reindeer management ensures that the siidae produce and follow-up reduction plans. Nor has the Ministry provided for adequate use of the instruments provided for by the Act on reintroduction and the Reintroduction Agreement, including the use of penalties to ensure that the objective of sustainable reintroduction is achieved. Furthermore, the study shows that grazing has been poorly explained in districts’ rules of use. Lack of clear grazing rights makes this work difficult. The work on clarifying the rights of grazing, including in the courts, must not prevent the reduction of the number of grazing under the rules of use.’;» Even though the industry itself is talking about going to the right to stop the reduction, it is said that the sides do not have to be an obstacle to reducing the reindeer. The purgatory is that today we have an ecological crisis – almost disaster – in Finnmark. Some places are like being in a desert. Areas are probably already destroyed for decades to come — in large parts of West Finland, and it is on the way to getting worse down the system. It doesn't help – with respect to reporting – to change the rules and tighten up if we don't show the ability to do anything and go into the sanctions we have today, to impose fines and do other things to bring down the numbers. The Council of State has not done that. He himself has gone out and said – almost a year ago – that it had to be taken out more than 30 000 clean quickly to get a sustainable operation and prevent animal tragedy. But nothing has happened since that time, so I challenge the Council of State today in its statement to tell a little about how far he has come, and about when he is in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1941	To be a relatively small industry — if we measure it in volume produced — the reindeer industry is frequently debated from this pulp. The reason is enough that it is an important industry for Norway, taking into account that it is an important cultural carrier for the Sami people. Purgatory has a challenging life in a society where things change quickly, in a society where housing patterns change, where nutrition patterns change, and where, in fact, you have to – to say a bit banal – compete for labour and the good minds in this industry as well. In recent years, we have received many evaluation reports that have looked at reindeer management. One has looked at the reindeer management and management. I will not, as the representative, Treldal, give me to quote from all the reports. That's not necessary. One of the last reports was an internal evaluation of the public administration of the reindeer industry, and it was the assistant county of Finnmark, Tor Stafsnes, who led the sample. The selection concludes – in short – that the reindeer management had organised itself in a way that was largely about getting responsibility powdered. The cleaning industry was in a difficult situation, but it was almost impossible to go into the administration and find out who was initially responsible for the problems that existed. We can't have it like that. We should therefore give tribute to the Council of State and the government that makes a proposal, which comes with a change – that sees this, and says that things have to be done. In my opinion, it's not as dark as Treldal says, that nothing has happened. Because, with all due respect, the government has taken hold of the last four years, and things have happened even in the sewerage. It's just a little slow, and I'm going to try to give good advice on how to get the pace up. An administration that basically doesn't work the way we want it to do, combined with a reindeer law that has a slightly curved purpose paragraph, makes this difficult, and the reindeer number is a good example. When we introduced quotas at the end of the 1980s, we didn't say to the fishermen: Be good, here's 100 000 tons. Can't you figure out how many fish to have on each boat? But that's almost what we've done in terms of reindeer operations. We've said that you have to find a sustainable number, and you have to agree. And that makes it a little bit difficult. The purpose of the reindeer management law states that reindeer management is required to operate sustainably – economically sustainable, ecologically sustainable and culturally sustainable. For an industry that has as much cultural responsibility as the reindeer has, this is going to be very difficult. That's why we said in the right that we have to give priority. If it's going to be possible to steer by the targets, we're going to have to go in and give priority to the purpose section. Therefore, the Right promotes a proposal that ecological sustainability should be a priority for economic sustainability and cultural sustainability. Our reason is that the cultural responsibility of the reindeer industry is based on old traditions with regard to reindeer marks and for the next generation to have so many clean ones. It does — in a situation like today — almost impossible to get a healthy diet. It is for reindeer farming as it is for agriculture and fisheries: technology is developing. You can do more work with fewer people. You can have more animals with fewer resources. So you can make the industry more modern, more resource efficient. With resource efficiency, I also believe that you can eventually have fewer people. There's the 'Hunch' that the Right will point to here. That is why we are promoting a proposal that states that the first paragraph of Section 1 of the Law on reindeer management is to be replaced by the following: ‘For the Sami reindeer grazing area, the law shall facilitate ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer management based on Sami culture, tradition and practice for the benefit of the reindeer population itself and society, and where ecological sustainability shall prevail over economic and cultural sustainability. In order to achieve these objectives, the law shall provide the basis for the appropriate organisation and management of reindeer management. Purification shall be maintained as an important basis for Sami culture and social life.’.» In the Right's view, if we don't do these priorities, we won't be able to give the reindeer a framework to develop a healthy industry. The ecological sustainability must be there. If you don't clean up the other two. I address the proposal that has been put forward by the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1968	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1971	Purification is an important industry both economically and culturally, and it is therefore important to lay the foundations for an economically, culturally and ecologically viable reindeer. The proposition being dealt with today is about changes in reindeer management laws and the management regime for reindeer management. As we can see from the proposition, this is a matter that has a long history, and there have been different views in the preliminary work on changes in the law. The government proposes to liquidate the territorial government and transfer its tasks to the county government office. The aim is to streamline and simplify the management of reindeer operations and to establish a clearer management structure. This can also help reindeer management to become part of a wider professional environment. The clean-up management system, with today's system of nomination, will be carried forward as today. The Board of Directors will become the Board of Appeal for decisions under the Law of Repurchase of the State. The Sami involvement in the public administration of the reindeer is important for the success of the conversion that has now been proposed. It is also suggested that the reindeer management in Alta will continue as before under the name Statens reindeer management. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will also invite Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund to participate in and develop the framework for Sami and reindustry participation in the new rules for the management. The Ministry sees it as absolutely decisive that, together with Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund, it will develop good practices for Sami and reindustrial participation in a new regional administration. As the spokesperson for the matter was involved, we believe it is a good move to facilitate the active involvement of the Sometinget and the Norwegian Reinbrutsamers Landsförbund in the further process of finding good cooperation relations that can give the current conversion, good anchoring and good legitimacy among those affected by the conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e1984	Proposition 89 L on amendments to the Law on Repurchase Operations involves the winding-up of the system of territorial controllers and the transfer of the tasks of territorial controllers to county offices. The centre party supports this change, and we believe that this will be a reasonable change to the reindeer management law. In this context, I would like to point out that there is a specific challenge within today's management system that reindeer management is a relatively small management without any connection to other general government. Over time, one view has been that this can create problems with, among other things, the capacity building and the structure of competence. The aim of the changes now being made is to provide more transparent and efficient management, which can be part of a wider professional environment and which brings overall benefits in terms of competence. The transfer of the powers of the Board of Governors to the counties is assumed to take place in parallel with an administrative transfer of the regional offices to the counties. The County will thus become the State, regional professional authority of the public administration of the reindeer management, cf. the corresponding role of the State in the field of agriculture and the environment. The offices are located where they are today. The river management in Alta is assumed to be maintained as before. It has now changed its name to the state reindeer management. In the case of the Reinhårtstyrelsen, this is in line with the district councils a collegial body in which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food today appoints four members and the Sameting three members. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will continue to have overall professional responsibility for the public administration of reindeer management. A new management model will also focus on joint participation and reindustrial knowledge. There are several of the speakers referred to here. I also show that the department has said that they will invite Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund to participate in and develop the framework for Sami and reindeer professional participation in a new regional administration. No agreement has been reached with the Sameting through the consultation mechanism on the changes currently being made, and Sametinget has requested that the case be postponed until autumn 2013 in order to have the time to carry out new consultations. However, like the rest of the Committee, the Centre supports the fact that a decision must now be made on how to organise the state's management of reindeer management, and we support the amendments to the reindeer management law proposed in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2010	The clean-up law, together with the reindeer management agreement, which we are going to debate in the next case, has as its main purpose the ecological, economic and cultural sustainability of the reindeer industry. I have noticed that the purpose of the changes we are now debating is to get a more transparent and efficient management that can be part of a broader professional environment, which overall brings a professional gain. It's positive, and something KrF supports. However, I would like to stress that such a radical reorganisation of reindeer management as this bill involves can be seen as an intervention in Sami traditions and Sami culture. The proposed amendments to the Reindeer Operations Act have encountered strong resistance in the Sameting and other representative bodies for Sami reindeer management. Therefore, in our view, the amendment of the laws must provide a deeper and more comprehensive justification than simply improving the efficiency of management. The Christian People's Party has strong and clear formulations in its programme on the recognition of cohabitation as an indigenous population, with its national and international obligations for the Norwegian State. When we choose to support the proposals for the amendment of the reindeer management law, an important part of our justification is that we see the need to take action to ensure that reindeer management remains a cornerstone of Sami culture in the future. It requires a sustainable form of operation in which gravitational pressures and the number of animals do not exceed the carrying capacity of the natural basis. It also assumes that serious and hard-working operators in the reindeer industry will have safe and predictable framework conditions. And it requires not least a good and clear interaction between reindeer industries and other land-intensive industries. For a long time, Norwegian reindeer management has not functioned satisfactorily, and both industry, nature and animals have been harmed by the fact that difficult problems have not been addressed. The grazing pressure has been alarming in large areas of grazing areas, and many animals have a low slaughter weight due to poor grazing conditions. Parts of the industry are struggling with locked conflicts and internal control has been poor. It is, and has been for too long, a major challenge that the reindeer industry has not been sufficiently ecological, economic and culturally sustainable. The purpose of the reindeer management law is precisely to ensure that the industry lives up to these important sustainability pillars. The changes we're now discussing are a step in the right direction. At the same time, not all the changes are completely unproblematic. I have noticed that the transfer of the authority of the district councillors to the county councillors is provided for in parallel with an administrative transfer of the district councillors to the county councillors. The county will thus become the regional government authority in the state administration of the reindeer management, as the county has a similar role in the agricultural and environmental fields. The Christian People's Party fears that there may be an unfortunate double role when the County Council is given the right to object to proceedings for the implementation of measures in the event of disagreement between the landowner/right of use and the reindeer, while the County is a mediation and complaint body in spatial planning matters. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants the notified evaluation after three years also to include a review of whether such a conflict of interest has been a challenge. I have also noticed the objections from Sametinget regarding the consultation procedures in this case, that the whole thing is of the opinion that the information has come too late, and that the whole thing has been omitted by the process. The merger is, and shall be, the government's leading premiscuous supplier in Sami matters. For 20 years, the Sametinge has played a central role both in the Sami environment and in the general population. It is essential that the forms of cooperation and dialogue between the Federation and the Government function well. I would like to stress that it is important that big business and government strive to maintain a good dialogue with Sametinget. In order to do so, it is important for the government, in the first place, to follow up its intentions to establish regional reindeer management forums as a resource of competence and meeting place for discussion of major reindeer management issues. I notice that the government will take the initiative that such regional forums are established before the amendments to the reindeer management law enter into force. The Christian People's Party expects all actors to contribute positively to the establishment of regional reindeer management forums as an important forum for dialogue between authorities and reindeer management.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2040	For a long time, public administration of reindeer management has been paying attention. In concrete terms, this concerns whether management is good and effective enough in relation to the tasks to be performed. Or, in other words, about management as a tool in facilitating sustainable reindeer management is designed in an appropriate way. In the light of developments and challenges now facing, both studies and evaluations have identified the need for changes in the organisation of the management of reindeer management itself. There is a need for more coordinated and comprehensive regional management. This applies not least to land issues, which are among the main challenges facing reindeer management today. It is in this light that the Government has proposed that the territorial governance system be phased out and that the tasks of the territorial authorities be transferred to the county offices. I am pleased that the Committee and the debate today are so clearly expressing support for this. These are important and necessary changes that, in my view, will facilitate efficient and forward-looking management of reindeer management. The new administration will provide skills gains in a wide range of professional environments. There is also reason to stress that territorial government has been an important player and has done a good job. There is a need, first and foremost, for organisational action that is the basis for the amendment. The transfer of the powers of district councillors to the county councillors shall be subject to a parallel administrative transfer of the district councillors to the county councillors. The county will thus become the state regional trade authority of the public administration of reindeer management. The county is now becoming a very clear player for safeguarding the interests of reindeer management in a situation where reindeer management is becoming more and more pressured. I am also pleased that the Committee joins in the proposal for a new management model for sewage treatment. It's very urgent to put this in place, for example. to ensure calmness and predictability in relation to the different interests affected in different ways. The Ministry has been very aware that the consideration of samonic influence and participation needs to be properly taken into account in the new management model. It is therefore proposed to establish regional forums to contribute to a systematic dialogue between public authorities and reindeer management. It should also be mentioned that it is generally assumed that good contact and dialogue procedures are established with the Sameting and the various reindeer operators. This is a work the ministry will take a strong part in and monitor closely to ensure that establishment and follow-up take place in line with the clear intentions set out here. The assembly and NRL are invited to participate in this work. Otherwise, the central reindeer management board will remain. Here, Mr Sameting has the appointing authority for three members and Mr Rein driftssamer's Landsförbund, NRL, the right to make proposals. There shall also be active reindeer operators among the members. This contributes, as the Committee has noted, to ensuring Sami participation in the public administration of reindeer management. I would like to express my regret at the fact that the consultations did not reach an agreement with Mrs Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftsssamer Landsförbund. Attempts were made to meet the requirements of the Sameting and NRL in some areas, but there was insufficient to reach a agreed proposal. The government's proposals have been adjusted somewhat in the light of the consultations, and I am sure that we will now have a good and efficient management model to help us achieve the reindeer policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2059	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2063	I have been contacted for the last year and a half by several reindeer workers who have understood that the reindeer numbers need to be reduced in order to get a reduction in the number of pure ones. They get a problem in the pages. I have one example: if you have 1 000 pure in one side, and then you have an actor who is a lawyer in Oslo, you have an actor who is a soldier in Afghanistan, and you can have an actor who might be in a nursing home because you've reached that age. Then the problem becomes for the reindeer owners: if they go down in the number of clean and are taken on the overall frame, you don't have enough pure for those who run in the sides to live and run sustainably. My question to the Council of State is: Do you want to consider a change in the law where you say that those who are given concession in the pages should actually be active drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2070	As far as the question of Torgeir Tjäldal is concerned, there has been a long-term effort to address the common challenge we see with too high a number of pure compared to the grazing base. During the last growing-up period, we adopted a reindeer management law that gave us new tools to tackle the problem and could also put power behind the instruments if we wanted to. We are not going to initiate any new legislative changes or new legislative changes now. We are committed to following up the law that the Stortinget itself adopted in 2007-2008, and to putting it into practice. I think the most important thing is that we are now inter-politically united on a common objective of achieving a more economic, ecological and sustainable reindeer. Then the reindeer number has to go down, and that's what we want to follow up. That's why we don't want to include that kind of new element in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2075	My question is: how will the Council of State define the concept of cultural sustainability, as to be understood in the first paragraph of Section 1 of the Act on Repurchase Management?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2080	I'm going to be careful to make a clear definition of three lines on it. What is important is that, in almost all policies, we have different policy objectives. As far as reindeer management is concerned, we have an objective that it should be economically sustainable to do so. We see that as a challenge now. We're saying that we have a goal that it should be ecologically sustainable, and it's linked to economics. When we get a lot of pressure on resources, ecology gets worse, and the economy is also bad. As far as cultural sustainability is concerned, we all know that the reindeer and the one indigenous people we have in Norway are very closely connected. When we then develop reindeer management policy, we must take account of the traditions, the history and the uniqueness of having an indigenous people in Norway. There will be many different considerations that have to be taken into account as part of the overall reindeer management policy, but at the end of the day, reindeer management is also an industry, and it has to be treated as an industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2089	It was interesting and positive that the Council of State put so much emphasis on this with the regional reindeer forum to be put in place. In the proposition itself, the government says the following: ‘The Ministry will initiate its establishment before the amendments enter into force.’; These are bodies without decision-making powers but have an important consultative function. We've come up with a situation where there's kind of a crisis of trust between the Sameton on the one hand and the State on the other. Can the Council of States say anything about how one sees progress in this, how one can get a good dialogue with the establishment of forums? Then it says, as paragraph five of the bill: ‘The law shall apply from the time of the King’. When does the Council of State think that these consultative bodies can be in place so that the law can come into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2108	I experience the representative's questions so that he has respect for the situation that is now too many of those who are in the reindeer business. The economic outcome for many people who are clean today is too low, and it's demanding. When they see the suggestions that are here, it can be dramatic for single practitioners. What is our main challenge as authority is that what can appear rational for one, in sum, is going to be wrong – that is, what is defined as the ‘traged by public opinion’. The scheme asked by the Reiten is partly a result of the process we have had with the Sameeting, which we did not fully achieve – but we give and take. A constructive outcome is that we're going to try to have this kind of regional forum. I'm going to be careful now to give a concrete answer to that, but we have to try to get it in place as soon as possible, and I hope that we can have a close and good dialogue with Sametinget, so we get it in place – because everyone would be best served with dialogue when we follow up the decisions made by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2117	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2122	When I said in my post that we have actually seen a development in this matter over the last four years, I meant it. It is such that former State Council Breck worked well on this matter. What we've experienced today is actually a small stoppage. If we have such a round and approximate relationship with the aim of the law in Section 1 of the Rein farm Act, we will never get caught up with what we have told us to do when it comes to reindustry. We can measure ecological sustainability in many ways. We can measure this by productivity in the flock: how many calves are there – what is the percentage of calves in a flock? It says something about ecological sustainability. We can measure it by calf weight: how much can a reindeer calf put on in a year? It says something about the ecological sustainability. Economic sustainability is simple – we can find out if it is possible to make money on what we are doing. But if we don't take the job of defining what is going to be cultural sustainability, well, we're there with the problem that maybe there are five brothers who are going to take over the flock after a father, and everyone is going to have equal rights. Maybe you have to share, maybe there are so many actors that you get down on just small flocks – not economically sustainable flocks. But if cultural sustainability is going to be that just you are the same, then you're going to be able to do reindeer, it goes beyond the other two sustainability concepts. We've been doing this issue for 20 years in Norwegian politics, and we're not going to do anything anymore if we don't take the job of figuring out how to govern according to the three goals. If we get to a junction and there are three ways, we have to somehow be able to choose a path. Then we also have to be clear on how we can choose the way we want to go. Now it's actually like we have a three-part sustainability formula, where we haven't taken the job of defining the last point. So, when the Council of State is so clear that he doesn't know what's in the concept of cultural sustainability, well, then we have a job to do so that we can adopt this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2135	If there is anything the debate on Norwegian reindeer drift has been much affected, there are big and strong words, but little action. I now experienced the contributions of the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen as an article with big and strong words – he is trying to make polemics out of an important and demanding issue. The policy of the red-green government in this area is that we have set a path to get the reindeer drift in the right direction. We believe that we're going to do it together with Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftsamers Landsförbund, NRL, because it's with Sametinget and NRL that we can do it. But then we've seen that it's also necessary to put in place a new law. We did so with the new reindeer management law in 2007, and we are doing so today with a new management model where we also have the opportunity to use sanctions when needed. When it comes to defining cultural sustainability, I think we should do it together with Sametinget and NRL – discuss it. But it is impossible to discuss Norwegian reindeer unless you take into account that it is an indigenous people we are talking about, and that the reindeer is closely linked to the way of life that people have lived for generations. So I don't want to make a slight definition over the table in order to somehow score political points on it. We have in very many cases in Norway, and not least in questions relating to indigenous people, different goals, and then there are balances. The best way we're going to be able to get down the reindeer is to have sanctions that this government is carrying out, at the same time as we have a close dialogue, and that we respect the fact that reindeer operations are facing some special challenges also culturally. If we don't have that respect, the level of conflict will be even higher. We do not need a higher level of conflict – we need action and dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2146	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2149	It's got to hold. In fact, the Council of State is once again going up and confirming what I said in my post. It is not the case that the legislative assembly is to adopt a law, and then a Council of State is to take a concept out and agree with the Conseil and the reindeer on what is to be in that concept. If the term is not defined when you get to Stortinget with the law, you have not done the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2159	I have a question for the Council of State. What he says is that you have penalties. Then my question to the Council of State, which I hope he will answer, When did you use the sanctions? As far as I know from the information I have received, no sanctions have yet been applied to address it. Then the question is, When is it used – and if it may not have been used, why not? Then you also say you're very concerned that you want to have an agreement with the whole thing. But now the whole thing has always claimed that they don't want to go into this with pure numbers, so they won't be part of it. Then I wonder, how are you going to have a dialogue with a party like Sametinget, who has said themselves that they won't be part of it? Are you going to force them to talk to you?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2168	To the representative, Tjäldal: I used a large part of my posts, both the first and the second, to describe the way we have now set up, with a new reindeer law in place in the last growing period, and we now have a reindeer management board that makes decisions – and the process goes its way. But it has to be a process, it has to be predictability. Norway is a country based on rule of law. We follow the decisions that Stortinget has made. That's what the reindeer management is doing. Now we've given the tools. We've seen that the tools you've had before have not been good enough, and now you have clear tools. Of course, this has also led to greater turmoil, for what you have said is serious. In order to add the good side to – which is a bit wise, and as we do in Prøysen-land – I heard Frank Bakke-Jensen in his first post saying that the Right was pleased that one began to see action in the field of reindeer management policy – that action is taking place and action is taking place, and that it is going the right way. And then we're going to have to admit that there's a disagreement about how important it is that you have with the term "cultural sustainability." But I think it's important, because it's a dimension we're completely dependent on. If we are to succeed in reindeer management policy, I believe we must respect the fact that it is a very special culture and that it is an indigenous people, with the challenges it presents.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2179	Torgeir Tåldal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2182	I challenge the state councils again. I asked questions: Have sanctions been applied – if so, where? If sanctions have not been applied — why not? This has now been going on for eight to twelve years. It has always been argued that sanctions should be used to bring it down, and the State Council of Battle of Vedum has gone out and said that there are more than 30,000 pure people who have to be taken down for it to be sustainable, and for one to have a way of driving, that not everything is going to be desert. So I'm going to ask the council again. Can he please answer my questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2187	To the representative, Tåldal: I repeat again that there is no quick fix, but through the legal work of the red-green majority in the previous magnification period, it is now up to me – through legislation and a process. Now we're in the middle of that process, and it's been decided this winter that has created reactions. Now that process has to be followed up. Then we're going to hope that the most possible solution will be found, and then we'll see what penalties are needed afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2192	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2207	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2216	I would like to refer to the negotiations on the reindeer management agreement, which is carried out on the basis of current reindeer management policy objectives and guidelines drawn up in St.meld. No 28 for 1991-1992, Sustainable reindeer management and reporting. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Welcome to the table, and the Stortinges treatment thereof, cf. Inner. S. No 167 for 1991-1992 and Innst. 234 S for 2011-2012. Furthermore, the Committee points out that the negotiations are also based on the examination by the Storting of the reindeer agreement and budget proposals for the year, as well as the current situation of the industry. The Committee took note that the negotiations were concluded by agreement on 20 February 2013. The agreement provides for financial measures in the reindeer industry of a total of 109,5 million. NOK, which is an increase of 5 million. kr in relation to the agreement in force. I agree that the approved rules of use are the very foundation of resource management in the future, and that an adapted grazing pressure to the grazing basis is the most serious and demanding challenge facing reindeer management. It is serious because sound resource use is crucial for the future of Sámi reprocessing in large parts of Finnland, and challenging because these issues have been on the agenda since the mid-1970s, without satisfactory results being achieved. The Committee points out that, on the basis of approved rules of use, the total purity in almost all districts of West Finland and in some districts of East Finland is to be reduced by less than 40 000 pure, which the Committee believes must be given the utmost attention. The Committee also points out that it is the responsibility of each side to follow up the decisions taken and to implement the reduction itself within specified time limits. Furthermore, the Committee points out that in this work it is important that the Board of Directors and other authorities stick to the arrangements chosen to carry out the numbering process. Only by implementing the processes prescribed by the law will there be an adequate basis for assessing the impact of the legal instruments. The Committee has taken note of the fact that significantly fewer clean meats have been slaughtered in the last two years than in previous years, while the market for reindeer meat has been good in the autumn of 2012 and in the winter of 2013. The Committee is concerned that this poses greater challenges than would have been necessary to adapt the reindeer number, while at the same time reindeer farms may face greater challenges of having stable deliveries to their markets. The Committee regrets that some reindeer have allowed the flock to grow beyond the sustainable framework pending the establishment of rules of use and the upper reindeer numbers. The Committee points out that the increase in grants is largely linked to the need to adapt the scale of each page to the established rules of use. The Committee stresses that this is particularly important. It is in the matter of this one's between the government parties and the Progress Party and the Right, with the partial support of the Christian People's Party. I expect the respective parties themselves to present their opinions and suggestions. I present with this the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others. What you should also consider about the reindeer agreement is that it is self-employed. One claims to be self-employed as a performer. But now it's like that a reindeer doesn't have the same rights to run a business like that. a farmer has, or someone else has. Depreciation is not possible as is the case with other enterprises. I believe that this is something you should look at in order to equalise the reindeer industry with other industries, so that you have the opportunity to collect income outside, get depreciation and do it the way that self-employed people do, which may also reduce the total amount transferred under the agreement. For this reason, I would also like to question the internal control of the reindeer management. We went through it in the previous case, that the Riksrevision has dropped quite heavily on the department, on the entire administration, in terms of equal use. But we've also seen that it's not just where it is. When you go back, you also point out that you are critical that the loss of tamrein taken from wild game is quite large, and that the compensation schemes are too little based on registration — and what to do there. I would ask that you actually go through and look at this. It will be seen that in 2010 the budget was 55.7 million. NOK 66 million was paid. kr. Last year, 63.4 million were budgeted. NOK 76 million and had to be paid. kr. I'm going to come back to this afterwards, because now I see that the speaking time is almost over. I'll come back to this a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2242	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2245	The clean-up operation agreement 2013/2014 was signed on 20 February and provides for financial measures in the sewage treatment industry totalling 109,5 million. kr, which is an increase of 5 million. kr in relation to the agreement in force. The sewerage industry faces a number of challenges, and I want to use this post to comment on someone. But first, I think it's very important for the industry and everyone who works in connection with it, that we have an arrangement with a reindeer management agreement where the parties can come together and negotiate an agreement. Firstly, it is important to stress that authorised rules of use will be the very foundation of ecologically sustainable reprocessing. One central area of activity is the use of economic instruments to stimulate the follow-up of authorised rules of use, including the specific follow-up of sites in districts with too high a figure compared to those authorised. I am referring to the fact that, on the basis of approved rules of use, the purging figure in almost all districts of West Finland and in some districts of East Finland is to be reduced by less than 40 000 reindeer. It's a huge number, and it's bad that in the last two years it's been slaughtered considerably less clean compared to the past while the market for this Arctic delicacies has been very good through the autumn and winter. It creates unnecessary problems for the processing industry, which is at risk of losing its supply contracts when the predictability built up over the last two or three years lapses. In order to create new market access and confidence in the reindeer meat, it is likely that the producer price will have to be further reduced, which also does not stimulate increased slaughter outlets. The fact that the nutritionists themselves do not have a greater focus on this seems strange to me. Despite the high level of commitment to sustainable reindeer management, the overall accounts show a decline in the performance targets from 2010 to 2011. Also measured per year, remuneration for work and equity decreases in the corresponding period. Production-based revenues are reduced by 31.6 million. kr – mainly due to a reduction in meat income. It has to do with harvests and producer prices and reductions in the value of life animals. Overall, the total revenue is reduced from 333 million. SEK in 2010 to SEK 299 million. kr in 2011. Although there are many skilled practitioners who operate very well — and this should not be underestimated — this development shows that in some areas strong and effective action is absolutely necessary. I think this description underlines the importance of creating a clearer and more efficient public administration. The challenges of sanitation are many and complex. In parts of Finnland, the challenges related to the relationship between grazing pressure and grazing basis need to be balanced. It is important to understand that in Finland too, challenges may vary within some areas. In the other grazing areas, the challenges are particularly linked to the loss of pure predatory game and other causes of loss, as well as the challenges of securing the land. So I've noticed that in all areas it's a challenge to increase the value creation of reindeer. A major challenge lies in the cross-border reintroduction between Norway and Sweden. As I have perceived it, there is the closest lawless state in some areas. It's okay that it's set at 1.6 million. kr for feeding and other measures for reindeer not granted access to allocated summer pastures in Sweden. As I understand the situation, it is rather unsustainable, among other things. in parts of Troms. After the meeting between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities on 21 September, we are assured that the Norwegian merger together with the Swedish merger and the reindeer management organisations in both countries will continue to work to reach an agreement on a new Norwegian-Swedish reindeer grazing convention, so that it can be ratified and implemented. They've got one year on them. If they succeed in doing so, a very big problem for reindeer in important areas is well on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2264	Very often we discuss the problems of the reindeer from this pulpit. It's going to be a little unfair, because this is an industry where we can travel around and meet a lot of great practitioners without having to make a lot of effort. There are quite a number of young people who are engaged in the industry, and young people who want to build a robust and profitable diet. Last summer I was invited to Alta for something called Designuke. It is Norwegian Design Council that allows young design students to travel out and make an effort in different environments. There I met two young designers who had met three girls from Kautokeino who were reindeer workers, and they had used these weeks – the fourteen days – to drive product development and designed new packaging for these products. They had thought of normal everyday food, a little party food and a party meal. They were thinking different price classes, they were thinking about the story around, and they were thinking about ways to present it. It was a fantastic experience, both because it was a very good job that was done, and because it was young, dedicated people who were proud of the industry they were part of, and who worked very well to make this an industry that they could participate in further. With regard to the reindeer management agreement, I have a few comments on our first proposal on changing the timing. It's a standard proposal we have to build up against all the charges that our cuts break with signed agreements. That is why we have said that if this is the case, we are likely to make both the grubbing-up agreement and the agricultural agreement part of the budget debate, then we are not going to get it on us. We also believe that it would have been a clearer way to do it. It is a point of individual marking in the notes, and individual marking for reindeer operations is interesting. Practitioners now mark individuals with GPS transmitters and then follow the flock. Now we don't have to jump on the motorcycle and necessarily run out on the field. It's actually so that one can stop in Tana at Frode Utsi, go in at his house and have a cup of coffee. He can record the PC and show where the pack is: there it is, and then there will be so and so many there. So this is also a modern industry. Until last: this applies to the prey game replacement. It's important to be careful. One is that there are large payments, the other is that there are great animal diseases associated with it and the third is that it is a very big loss of reputation for an industry to have such large payments. That's probably how you can go in and look at the numbers. Those flocks where we have a high stocking density, we like to have poor productivity, and there we also have a lot of predatory game. So there's a relationship between the aforementioned moments of ecological sustainability and the extent to which the flocks themselves are able to protect themselves from predators. But all in all, the Right-wing Agreement supports it. In the comments, we generally agree with each other. Then we have some suggestions along with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party that have already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2279	As I said in the previous case, the reindeer is an important industry both economically and culturally, and it is an industry that depends on optimal use of grazing resources. The negotiations on the reindeer management agreement were carried out in accordance with the overarching targets drawn up for this industry, which we have discussed before today. It is positive that the parties agreed to an agreement. It involves economic measures in the reindeer industry of 109.5 million. kr, which is an increase of 5 million. kr in relation to the current agreement. Sami reindeer feed into living farming throughout the country through grazing in mountain areas and outland, and it has the potential to increase value creation. We actually have reindeer operations in 140 municipalities and on an area of 40 pst. of the land area in Norway. Red meat is a delicacy, one of the most exclusive meats Norway has to offer. These figures show that this is an important industry and an industry that has the potential for positive further development. Norway and Sweden have been without a convention on cross-border reintroduction since 2005, which is very unfortunate. This leads to Norwegian reindeer districts being prevented from grazing in Sweden. It is therefore positive that the parties to the grubbing-up agreement agree to redispatch 1.6 million. kr for feeding and other measures to ensure the operational basis of those affected by the lack of such a Convention. The main purpose of the agreement is to facilitate the increased slaughter and conversion of reindeer meat. It will improve both the economic and the ecological strengths of the industry. In order to follow developments in this area, it is agreed to establish a new reporting system for slaughterhouses and further processing establishments. In this way, we can get an overview of the ambitions of the agreement being followed up so that we can get it gradually and not just in retrospect. There is also agreement to continue the reindeer programme, which is specifically geared towards the further development of established reindeer meat establishments. It is also an important measure to raise turnover and to produce the good quality and high potential of the fine raw material that the reindeer is. In the last two years, fewer slaughters have been carried out than in previous years, despite the fact that the market situation has been affected. This is a development that we're going to reverse if we're going to create a good development for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2294	The negotiations on the new reindeer management agreement were concluded with an agreement on 20 February 2013. The agreement provides for financial measures in the reindeer industry of a total of 109,5 million. NOK, which is an increase of 5 million. kr in relation to the agreement in force. The batch will stress that the approved rules of use are the very foundation of the resource management in the future and that an adapted grazing pressure to the grazing basis is the most serious and demanding challenge facing reindeer management. It is serious because sound resource use is crucial for the future of Sámi reprocessing in large parts of Finnland, and it is challenging because these issues have been on the agenda since the mid-1970s without satisfactory results being achieved. Based on approved rules of use, the total number of clean-up in almost all districts of West Finland and some districts of East Finland shall be reduced by less than 40000 reindeer. It's a very large number. The central party believes that the government must pay the utmost attention to this area. I would also like to point out that it is the responsibility of each side to follow up the decisions taken and to implement the reduction within the given time limits. Furthermore, I would like to point out that it is important in this work that the Board of Purity and the other authorities stick to the scheme that has been chosen, so that the renumbering process can be carried out. In the last two years, significantly less pure meat has been slaughtered than in previous years, while the market for reindeer meat has been good in the autumn of 2012 and in the winter of 2013. The centre party is concerned that this poses greater challenges than would have been necessary to adjust the reindeer number, while the reindeer companies may face greater challenges in having stable deliveries to their markets. The centre party finds it very regrettable that some reindeers have allowed the flock to grow beyond the sustainable framework pending the establishment of rules of use and upper reindeer numbers. The provisions of the Purity Act are clear as to the procedure to be followed when the purity of the page is higher than that laid down. The law primarily provides for increased internal governance by establishing a reduction plan for the summer side in which it can decide how the reduction is to be distributed between the side parts. We have noticed that some summer pages have been developed and approved such a reduction plan. However, the centre lot would stress that if the reduction plan is not followed, the law is clear on the secondary solution for follow-up. In this case, a proportionate reduction shall also be applied to these sides. A proportionate reduction implies an equal percentage reduction. The size of each side must therefore be taken off the reduction, depending on the number of pure parts it initially has. In the case of such a percentage reduction, the lateral proportions having the largest flocks must be reduced by more pure than those having the smallest flocks. In order to ensure that the follow-up also becomes fair when switching from a reduction plan to a situation of proportionate reduction, it is important to take into account what side parts have reduced according to the approved reduction plan. When a proportionate reduction is to be carried out, the lateral proportions following the reduction plan will be credited with the slaughter take-off already carried out. The negotiations highlighted the importance of giving particular priority to measures contributing to the increased slaughter and placing on the market of reindeer meat, and the importance of coordinating the instruments of the reindeer management agreement in order to achieve as effectively as possible the objectives set. The centre party supports such an approach. I would also like to stress the importance of the agreement to stimulate reindeer activity for market production and value creation, and that the instruments are specifically designed to target reindeer operators who have the main activity of reindeer activity. The Management Board has set deadlines for a number of pages/districts in West Finland and East Finland. Purity reduction is assumed to be achieved within one to three years. The limited withdrawal period for the first year is related to the short period remaining during the 2012/2013 slaughter season. In the submission of the offer, the NRL was informed that financing of measures for districts that are prevented from using winter pastures in Sweden, because the Norwegian-Swedish reindeer grazing convention is not operational, will be resolved except for the 2013/2014 reindeer grazing agreement. I would like to stress that the situation of reintroduction on the Norwegian side in these areas is very demanding and that it is very important to arrive at a lasting solution for these practitioners. These are practitioners who are highly committed to further development and youth in the area and who have also made a strong contribution to building skills. That is why it is very important that a lasting solution be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2322	Purgatory policy is a balance between three areas: animal health, nutrient basis and ecological sustainability. There are challenges to reindeer management in all these three areas. The Christian People's Party believes that reindeer management can make good use of resources in marginal mountain and outlying areas, and that reindeer management is a central bearer of Sami culture. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that the measures of reindeer management policy must be designed in such a way that the industry becomes sustainable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. Challenges in industry are high, and good practice is crucial in good dialogue between authorities and industry. The Christian People's Party believes that the agreement takes account of the three pillars on which reindeer management in Norway is based: economic, ecological and cultural sustainability. At the same time, when it comes to these sustainability pillars, we see the biggest challenges. There is still too much grazing on pastures in parts of Finnmark, Troms and Nordland. This is mainly due to the underregulation of grazing animals in relation to grazing land. When one looks at the reindeer management agreement and the changes to the reindeer management law as a whole, it is now clearly set up to facilitate an increase in clean extraction. The Christian People's Party believes that this is necessary both for the environment and for the sustainability of the industry. As regards the loss of pure, the proposition shows that about 75 000 reindeer are reported annually. Of them, 80-90 pst. have been reported to have been taken by predators. It goes on to say that the documented number of pure taken from predators is only 5 pst. of the total number of animals lost. It is replaced by approximately 19,500 reindeer, which equals 26 pst. of the total. It must mean that more than five times more animals than those documented by predators are being replaced. So it's going to be 80 pst. of the claims paid without documentation. This is a challenge, especially as it could damage the legitimacy of the compensation scheme. There is a need for a thorough review of the reindeer industry in terms of trends and measures to improve economic and ecological sustainability. The aim must be to ensure the safe future of reindeer management as a cornerstone of Sami culture and identity. Purgatory policy was part of the agricultural communication, but in our opinion it is not enough. It's been over 20 years since the Stortinget dealt with its own down-to-earth report on reindeer operations. The Christian People's Party believes that a new reindeer management message must now be prepared in the light of the major changes that have occurred in the reindeer operation during this period. It applies at the ecological level to land use interventions, land loss, animal health, predatory losses and climate change. This applies at the legal level with an increased focus on customary law, new reindeer law and its amendments, and not least new reindeer law. I refer here to proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. It also applies at economic level with the conversion of grant and compensation schemes. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the work of reducing the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark takes a long time. We are concerned that this important work is being followed up, so that one ensures the most sustainable clean-up operation possible. We note that the Riksrevision in Document 3:14 for 2011–2012 makes clear criticism of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The Court of Auditors shall give its opinion, inter alia:\t\t You can change the «In accordance with the Act of Purity, rules of use shall be drawn up with an upper cut-off value. The rules of use are a prerequisite for compliance with the provisions on upper reindeer and grazing. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has not provided sufficient facilities for the rules of use to be drawn up in line with the Law on Reinforcement.’ And on the other hand, ‘In order to reduce numbers, reduction plans shall be drawn up. The study shows that neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Ministry of Food, nor the Board of Directors of the State of Reef have drawn up plans or strategies for the preparation and follow-up of the reduction plans.» I am recording that the department finally received the necessary steering signals from the Riksrevision after this force surge. It actually happened as late as February this year. Then the department ordered the Reinhriftstyrelsen to take decisions on time limits for proportional reduction of the reindeer according to § 60 third paragraph of the Reinhriftgesetz – better late than never. If this pressure had come from the department earlier, a better dialogue would probably have been established with the industry on how the reductions in reindeer numbers were to be carried out, without having to resort to the compulsory provisions of the reindeer management law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2357	The clean-up agreement, which is negotiated every year, is one of the main pillars of the Norwegian model, which the Progress Party would like to call it, or the reindeer policy, as we in the government call it. I am pleased that, through good and constructive negotiations with the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund, we reached agreement on a new reindeer management agreement for the 2013/2014 contract year. The agreements have a framework of 109.5 million. kr. It shall continue to facilitate the main reindeer operators. In my view, this year's agreement will provide a basis for good and positive development in the reindeer industry. And that's important. The sewage industry is unique in many ways, and we can be proud that we have in Norway. At the same time, the challenges are many and complex, and they set their mark on the reindeer policy agenda. I very much appreciate the fact that the committee with weight goes into these and does not leave any doubt as to what should be the direction of the reindeer policy work. The most important thing now is to carry out the reduction in numbers. As the Committee, inter alia: it is important that the Board of Directors and the other authorities maintain the arrangements chosen. Only by implementing the processes prescribed by the law will there be an adequate basis for assessing the impact of the legal instruments. The Purity Act and the Purity Agreement are assumed to move in the same direction. In order to facilitate ecological and economic sustainability, it will be important to facilitate the increased slaughter and placing on the market of reindeer meat. Through the negotiated agreement, reindeer owners are stimulated to increase slaughter outlets by an exceptional increase in the production-oriented subsidy. In addition, it is added, for example: facilitating the upgrading of fences and facilities for the collection of slaughter animals. The Parties also agree to continue the Rein programme. The Committee, in its opinion, points out that the last two years have been significantly less slaughtered than in previous years, while the reindeer meat market has been good. The Committee expresses concerns about the process of redial reduction and the delivery situation in view of this. This is a concern there is every reason to share. But through this year's reindeer management agreement, as I have also explained here, a number of steps have been taken to ensure that the practical and economic conditions for increased slaughter and marketing are present. However, I will ensure that the situation is closely monitored, in line with what has been expressed earlier in the debate. So a little bit about the other issues that the committee comes up with. A new reindeer grazing convention between Norway and Sweden was negotiated in 2009, but for the time being it has not been ratified and implemented. The majority of the Committee expresses concerns about the situation which is developing, inter alia: in the interior of Troms, where Swedish reindeers take care of themselves on the Norwegian side. This is followed up by the Norwegian authorities in accordance with the applicable provisions. With regard to the future process of the Convention, the groupings and business organisations of the two countries are now working further to seek agreement on the geographical distribution. This work shall be completed until the harvest and the aim shall be to ratify and implement a new Convention as soon as possible thereafter. The majority of the Committee also refers to the loss of tamrein due to predatory game, showing among others: for loss development to be of particular concern in the Southern Sami region. This is the reason to look at it very seriously. The southern Sami environments are relatively small and therefore vulnerable to all types of influences, including predators. A large amount of predatory pressure can affect these environments in a disproportionately burdensome way. For the Committee's information, Southern Sami is one of Europe's smallest languages in daily use – about cultural sustainability. Finally, I would like to express optimism on behalf of the reindeer industry. As the Committee also refers to, many practitioners and districts currently operate very well, with the production of high quality quantum reindeer meat. The sewerage industry has a high potential for increased value creation and industrial development based on the resources of reindeer management. When, in those parts of Finnland that currently have too high a figure, we get a proper grazing pressure in relation to the resource base through reduced cleanness, this could also provide the basis for increased income. I believe that every opportunity is available to facilitate a viable and forward-looking reindeer business, where the concerns of the natural environment, animal welfare and, above all, the practitioners are well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2389	I want to ask a question to the Council of State. Every year for four years we have submitted proposals that go on the ID marking of pure. The reason is that you have a lot of conflicts up there by picking up your ears by cutting them. It also has a part to do with animal welfare. You also claim that someone takes what doesn't belong to them, and uses their own ear tag, which makes us have conflicts up there. Then we also have this with loss of reindeer. It's much easier to find out by electronic earring. The police also say that it will be easier in their everyday lives to get easier control. The question to the Council of State is: is this something that the Council of State is considering to implement, so that we get a better everyday life for reindeer workers and a better control of the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2396	The answer to that is very simple: I don't want to change today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2401	The Council of State said in its previous statement that it was important that the reindeer industry was treated as an industry, and there I fully agree with the Council of State. It's very important, I think, to emphasize that these are nutritionists. Then my question is: after the reindeer management agreement, it is such that reindeer operators are not treated equally with other operators in terms of the means of operation. In the case of snowmobiles and quadricycles, for example, which this industry uses a lot, there are separate rules for reindeer operation. The foundation of the Ministry of Finance was once in the world that we could not have food depreciation on snowmobiles, because they could be used in leisure time. Could it be a thought for the Council of State to work to ensure that the industry could also, on that side, be equated with other businesses, to show that they were taken seriously as businessmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2406	I have to go deeper into that question before I can give an exact answer. But it's like in agriculture, which is another part of my responsibility, that there are limitations, for example. in relation to quadruple wheels on the number of costs to be incurred as a result of the operation. I can't give a precise answer to that, but I'm taking the tape with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2411	In my post, I read a part of the framework-salted criticism that has come from the Riksrevision regarding the department's lack of guidelines for the preparation of usage rules in accordance with the reindeer management law and reduction plans. When the department first comes on the track, it is in order to impose on the Board of Directors the necessary measures for proportionate reduction as a coercive measure under the Act of Purity. Does the Council of State agree that this insidiousness may have contributed to increasing the level of conflict between the reindeer industry and State authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2416	I believe that what has happened with regard to the administrative and legal aspects of reindeer operations in recent years has been good. But there has been a conflict, because the Stortinge gave new instruments in the last enlargement period, which means that more power can also be used if you want to implement measures to reduce the purgatory. That's the process we're in right now. What I, as the Council of State, did through my department earlier this year was just to underline the obligation under the law of reindeer management to carry out the process we are now in, and which is absolutely necessary, we are going to be able to have an economic and ecologically more sustainable nourishment. I mean, that's right what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2421	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2426	In my main post, I went through what the Riksrevision has criticized, among other things. as regards the reduction of the reindeer number. I had a follow-up question to the Council of State during the line change, where I, among other things, went into this with the clean ID marking. It has been proven that today you have a small overview of who owns what is pure. You are plagued by large flocks being hunted into small flocks, as was done in the Ville West in the 1800s, which creates major conflicts, and which in fact the police have warned against. In fact, Kautokeino's assistant has considered taking in firearms because of the conflicts. I think it is a little strange that when the Riksrevision criticises that action cannot be taken, and when you come up with suggestions to ID-label – which makes it much easier to follow the reindeer by saying that, as the representative from the Right spoke about, you can GPS-label them and follow the flock – then I don't understand why you don't go into this. This will also help with the losses. So you have a loss of almost 250 animals a day in Finnmark. This way will make it easier to prove whether this is real loss or not. The National Audit Office is also critical of this with losses caused by robberies. As I said, it's only 6 pst. the loss that has to be documented, and the rest is paid. In 2010, 55 million were budgeted. kr to compensate for the loss of clean because of the rescued predatory game, and spent 66 million. kr. In 2011, 63 million were budgeted. NOK 76 million was spent. kr. You spend a lot of money on the budget. This also made the Riksrevision a report about four years ago, and here we are today. You can put the reports after each other, but nothing happens. You can't carry out the control you're going to – you can't do it. I had to ask the Council of State twice, whether action was taken to punish this. And he says, well, now you have to start, and now you have to start. The same guy, Lars Peder Breck, answered me four years ago: now we're going to start. Let's look at it. Now we're in 2013, and I'm in my last period, but I think I probably would have got the same answer in 2018, 2019 and 2020 if I had been sitting for some more periods, and it's not going to be a government change. It's time to start doing things to get the industry organized, to get an ecological and sustainable business and to prevent making a desert of the whole of Finnmark. It's a new government that can rock Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2435	Unlike the representative, Tjældal, I do not plan to do so on the basis that this is my last period. I'm planning on being four new years in the Council of State chair. It is sad that no servitude can ask any more questions – he gets to send letters. With regard to what was repeated from the previous debate, we adopted a new piece of legislation in the previous enlargement period, which laid down a plan and a way of getting rid of the reduction in numbers. The road and the plan you had had until then had not worked. A new law, new opportunities and new instruments were needed to put power behind the requirements. Now we're in that process. I know the representative, Treldal, as one who follows closely in the Norwegian media, and I think he's brought with him the processes that have been in winter, and that they also create conflicts, because they affect individuals and individuals. But now something happens. This vast majority, on which this government is based, has given the government and then the administration the opportunity to take a completely different grip than we've been used to before. It will all serve, not least those who want to have reindeer as an important part of their nutritional basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2442	I actually got an answer to what I asked for, because what the council says is that they passed a law and saw a plan. I thought – with all due respect – that it might be a trick to adopt a plan and then make a law from where you want it. But this says something about why nothing has happened in all these years: but has adopted a law without having a plan with it. I have one last question to the Council of State. He has not answered me directly on the question, so I have asked it twice, if he could confirm that they had had any sanctions against this. But if we get to August 1st – then you're probably still in control – and the numbers still aren't reduced to the goals, will you wait for a legal conflict, as the Riksaudition says you don't have to, because you can take action, or will we see action by using the possibilities you have to punish them, according to the legislation that's made in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2456	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2464	During the debate, Inger Johanne Bjørnstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 63 on patient and user rights is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2541	A vote shall be taken on the opinion of the Committee for the remainder of I and II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2551	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2561	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2569	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1 by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 5 December 2003 100 on the human medical use of biotechnology, etc. § 2-3 new second paragraph is replaced by the following: Insemination may also occur when a man is infected with a serious and chronic sexually transmitted infection. [[Biotechnology Act]] The current second term becomes the third term.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2597	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 5 December 2003 100 on the human medical use of biotechnology, etc. the first paragraph of Section 7-5 shall be replaced by the following: health professionals and others who, by virtue of their professional activity, infringe the law or the provisions adopted in accordance with the law, are penalised by fines or imprisonment for up to three months.» [[Biotechnology Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2658	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the second paragraph of Section 2-3. The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2673	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the second paragraph of Section 7-5. The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2687	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at II. The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2701	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2715	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2723	During the debate Jon Jäger Gåsvatn has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that patients/ dependants be given the status of party to the oversight proceedings dealt with by the Health Authority and thus have the right to appeal to the decisions of the Health Authority.’; The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2863	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I to V.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2874	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2884	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2892	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on transforming the Radium Hospital into a national centre of competence for treatment, research and development in the field of cancer.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the start of work on setting up a new hospital building at the Radium Hospital and to ensure that the cancer environment is well placed to continue professional development.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2927	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Right Party and the Christian Party, which reads: ‘The government is asking for the transformation of the Radium Hospital into a national centre of excellence under Oslo University Hospital for research, testing and development of new treatments and treatments in the cancer field.’ The Progress Party has announced that it is now subsidising the proposal. The left has announced that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2949	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that it is the professional assessment of the Directorate-General for Health’s expert group on the basis of which new cancer medicines for patients with cancer are taken into regular use in healthcare.’; Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e2976	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5-7, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 8, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 9, by Mr Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 10 and 11, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 12 and 13, from Inger Johanne Bjørnstad on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1-11 is included in the setting on page 6, while the proposals No. 12 and 13 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen school health services by stepping up a minimum of 1000 new health sisters in school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3014	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a stepping-up plan for the protection of the family.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3031	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to strengthen the support schemes for outpatient mental health teams.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the research effort in mental health and to develop several good prevention methods.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3053	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By the end of 2013, the government is asked to promote a case for the Storting where the funding scheme for the psychological services is changed to individual reimbursement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3068	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to strengthen the grant schemes so that more psychologists are employed in the municipalities.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3085	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a resumption and fortification of the escalation plans for mental health.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of the provision of specialist health services in the field of mental health protection, while ensuring that municipalities have time and resources to build up their own competences in the field.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a national escalation for health centres.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3114	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests the implementation of different mental health pilot projects before implementing new tasks for municipalities in the future extension of the Interaction Reform.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to restore the rule that more resources should be spent on drugs and psychiatry than on somatic diseases in specialist health services during a transitional period, while ensuring the time and resources for municipalities to build up their own skills and capacities.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the creation of several user-controlled sites related to district psychiatric centres [[DPS]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased efforts to inform the population about mental illness.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3159	In Case No: 7 and 8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3167	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Törgeir Tjäldal, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to repeal the milk quota system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3195	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that specific discrimination against cooperatives ceases, so that specific quota ceilings, numbering and distance limits are removed.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the removal of the ban on the rental of allowances if you are in co-operation and for this to take place as soon as possible.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3224	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 15 June 2007 40 on clean-up operations is amended as follows: [[Clean Farming Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3486	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3496	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3504	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Tåldal on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Mr Torgeira Tjäldal, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the compensation scheme for the loss of cleanness, including assessing the reinforcement of the requirements for the documentation of reported losses. The review shall be carried out by an independent body.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the reindeer settlement period to follow the calendar year and the entry of the negotiations as part of the ordinary budgetary procedure.’;» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3540	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to give priority to negotiating a new agreement in the light of the Act of 2 October 1751 First Codicill and Supplements to the Border Tracts between the Kingdoms of Norway and the Swedish Lapses concerning the prevention of future cross-border conflicts.’ [[Laughter]] The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3662	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposals for reindeer management 2013/2014 are not accepted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-27.ana.ud1139e3768	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
