ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e35	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e42	The situation at Aarhus has been raised with the Minister of Health 13 times in the United Kingdom. It has been about failing patient safety, unnatural deaths, manning problems, capacity problems and management challenges. Every time there's been a call for warnings around Ahus, we've got the same answer from the government, that the opposition is black-painting, and that everything is under control. In that case, it's like doctors, nurses, the National Auditor's Office and everyone else who's been notified of the situation at Ahus are also involved in this so-called black paint, as the government calls it. That's a lot of challenges. In October 2011, the Prime Minister said: ‘It is clear that if conditions such as: safety is compromised, action shall be taken to deal with it.’;» Then I have two questions for the Prime Minister: Question 1: Does the Prime Minister think that the situation is now at risk of security? Question 2: If he thinks so, what action will the government take to get the emergency situation at Aarhus under control?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e60	All alerts and all reports of failure and deficiencies in the Norwegian health system are to be taken with the greatest seriousness, for it is about individuals and it is about people who do not receive the offer they are to have. Although the main picture in Norwegian health services is that there is a high quality and that many receive treatment, there are still examples that things do not work. A flawless health care system does not exist. There are seven to eight million treatments and investigations in the healthcare system every year, and although the vast majority of it is of high quality and delivers what it should, even small percentages of errors of such large numbers will provide many examples. That's why they're going to be taken very seriously, and so are we with regard to the reports from Aarhus. They have to be handled in a neat and proper way, and that's what we need to be sure about. This means that it is the hospital's management who has to take on seriously the reports of failure – and it is the county board, the Health Service and in the most serious cases the police. That's the way we have to make sure that the single examples that come up and that are important to come up – transparency about errors and shortcomings – are the prerequisites for reducing the number of errors and shortcomings. Ahus is our largest emergency hospital with 500,000 patient contacts every year. The main picture is also that it is good quality. We do not have any information to suggest that Ahus is a less secure hospital than other hospitals, but even in a safe hospital, there is a mistake. There is lean comfort for those who experience defects and lack that the main picture is that there is high quality, and increasingly better quality, in Norwegian hospitals. What's done at Ahus is, first of all, that several permits have been put in to increase the capacity, and, secondly, that they look at the possibility of using other hospitals as relief. The Health Minister has also said that you should look at the border, that is, the patient base, to see if it should also be adjusted to reduce the admission to Ahus.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e69	I have to say, I think the Prime Minister took a terrible light on the issue I am now addressing. A lot of people are worried. All hospital employees are concerned and have sent letters to the government asking for more money in order to get the situation under control. Then I don't think it's going to work, as the Prime Minister is now doing, to shift responsibility to the hospital management. The government has the overall responsibility that Norwegian hospitals are well funded and well staffed to operate safely. Then I'm not sure if there's any sense in asking the question that I was really going to ask, namely, what the government will do in the long term with a hospital that is new, but which is already too small. This happens at the same time as Aker Hospital is closed and Stensby Hospital is threatened with closure. What will the government do in the long term to solve the challenge in the capital area of a hospital situation that is already too small?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e76	I think I underlined very clearly in my post that we take all reports of defects and defects in Norwegian hospitals, including at Aarhus, in the utmost seriousness. They shall be handled in a clean and proper manner by the hospital's management, by the supervisory bodies we have, and in the most serious cases by the police. We do things both in the short and long term. In the long term, we now have a big message for treatment here in Stortinget – for the first time a big message about quality in health care – just to see how we can do even more about quality. We are perhaps the country that has the most systematic measurement of hospital errors and their publication – just to be able to do something about the mistakes. There is no country, and no hospital, which could say that they have a flawless health care system. Transparency about the errors, being open also to anonymous alerts, is a prerequisite for reducing the number of errors. I repeat, we do not have any documentation to suggest that Ahus has any lower quality than other hospitals, but even the best hospitals make mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e83	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Kari Kjönnaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e86	As an option for Akershus and a resident of Lørenskog, where Ahus is located, this was very little reassuring. The crisis at Ahus has now followed us for two years without anything happening. Corridor Asians in general are becoming a well-known phenomenon. All over the country, we have long waiting lists and corridors. This is after all a wild and planned policy from the red-green. From Stoltenberg, the government of the country took over in 2005 and until 2011, there were 1 700 fewer sick people in our country, and the closures continued in 2012. Just before Christmas, Stensby Hospital was admitted to hospital, despite the fact that this hospital has constantly remedied the problems at Aarhus. On behalf of patients, relatives and employees, who are constantly affected by the lack of bed capacity, I ask: How many more hospital beds are to be laid down before the government has reached its final goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e93	I believe that the best goal of success in health services is first and foremost how many people receive treatment and the quality of that treatment. The main picture, when we look at the international surveys comparing countries, shows, first of all, that much more people are being treated in Norwegian hospitals. Overall, there are seven to eight million treatments and investigations. 1.8 million different Nordics were treated at hospitals’ specialist health services last year, and the quality is increasing. It's not the number of cases that are the most important, it's the number of good treatments that are the most important. Stensby Hospital, part of Ahus, has performed certain tasks within Ahus. I think it's pretty important that it's Aarhus and the hospital board that decide how they want to dispose of their departments and their people. They believe that they get more and better health care by focusing on Lørenskog and Ski, instead of also maintaining Stensby, which is very close to Lørenskog.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e100	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e103	The situation we now see at Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus is the consequence of the lack of risk management and planning of the capital process. In its report on state ownership, the National Audit Board states that it is the primary responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Welfare for which the Prime Minister is also responsible. So this is a long-term effect of something that is a result of poor political governance. What has the government done since the recognition that this process was not well planned, so that the ministry – the government – can help to clean up the situation under government control, which has been created in two of the largest hospitals in the country? These include a large proportion of the country's population, and are now beginning to lose confidence that they are actually getting the health supply they can expect in the capital area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e111	What we are now experiencing is that we are implementing a major conversion that has been widely agreed on in Norway, and which we believe is right that we did, namely that we built a large, new hospital in Akershus. It's a top modern hospital, it provides a very good offer for a lot of patients. We also agreed that we should move patients from Oslo to Akershus. It's done. It was a demanding transition, and some of the problems that have been pointed out are related to the very conversion. But I warn you very much that we should now be so afraid of changes that we will not carry them out, even if changes are demanding. That we build a large, new hospital, that we transfer patients, that together has also improved the quality. Many of the problems that have been identified in connection with the migration itself are solved or well along the way now – it is about things that are a little behind in time, 2010 and 2011. Then there will still be reports of deficiencies, and then we'll catch up with them. The main picture, however, is that there is no evidence that there is less safety and less quality at Aarhus than at other hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e116	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e119	The measures taken by the management of Aarhus are absolutely necessary. However, the measures presented by the Aarhus leadership yesterday were, in the form of a letter from the Nursing Association, made a demand on 23 September 2011. It's been a year and a half. Getting in place crews that take into account the real operation was one of the requirements, and opening and staffing available beds at Aarhus, Ski Hospital and the patient hotel. This letter led to the supervision of the county board in Oslo and Akershus. The conclusion of the county doctor was that one had a caregiver who was at increased risk for patient safety. That was his conclusion. It's been two years. My question is whether it is satisfactory for the Prime Minister that it will take two years before one increases the staff that ensures patient safety, as opposed to the county doctor concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e124	I think it is generally recognised that what was a problem was that the conversion was not done quickly enough or well enough when we were in the middle of it back in 2010 and 2011. We did not quickly enough to re-embarrass Ahus because of, among other things. did not get the staff in Oslo quickly enough. That's what you've done better. Since 2010, there have been 1,500 new staff members at Aarhus, 250 doctors and 600 nurses. In addition, new job homes are being added to Aarhus now. One looks at the possibility of getting more cooperation with other nearby hospitals, and the Minister of Health has warned that we should look at the field of admission to adjust it, if necessary, so that Aarhus has less access to patients than they have today. That we must constantly be concerned about adjusting when we implement that kind of big conversion is not an expression that the conversion was wrong. Overall, there are several people who are being treated, and the quality is increasing in Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e129	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e132	There are many who express concern about the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. It's a fact that we have some sectors that go incredibly well, especially the oil-related. At the same time, we see failures in other areas. We know that in the future we're going to need more legs to stand on, and that in good times maybe one of the most important things we do is to look for the future and put down the important seeds that help us to pay for the welfare society we have in the future, and have the salary level and the private welfare level we have. What has been the conclusion of much of this concern has been that we need to give more priority to research, development, innovation, we need to make the Norwegian business world more innovative. In all international statistics, we're below the average for this. Norway simply needs to be smarter, sharper, we need to be better and have more knowledge and expertise companies in 20 years' time than what we have today. That means we have to input those seeds now. In this regard, I was a little surprised yesterday when Minister of Industry Trond Giske struck out with his arms and said that it is not serious that we score low on research and innovation. He was very pleased because we have some very good environments, but he didn't have any concern about the situation in terms of low bets on research and innovation, despite the fact that at all international barometers we score either medium or medium-sized on this. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does he agree that there is really nothing to worry about that we score low on research and innovation in all these international overviews?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e139	On the question of whether this is the case, we focus a lot on research in Norway, the answer is yes. On the question of whether we spend enough on research in Norway, the answer is no. I think we need to be able to take on board that it is both that Norway is putting a great deal of effort on research and innovation and succeeds in many areas, and that at the same time we have to do even more. It's not right that we score low on all international rankings. It's kind of dependent on which ratings you're looking at, and what you're measuring, but we score high on the most important ones, for example. economic growth, low unemployment, people at work, high employment. The most important thing to promote the growth capacity of the future is to keep people in work. When many leave the job, the growth capacity of the economy is weakened, because people lose their skills, they fall out of the labour market. Nothing weakens innovation more than that. We are also good at innovation and innovation. We have a record in new private enterprises, a record of employment growth in private enterprises, over 200 000, so it's not as dark as Erna Solberg's. See, for example, in public funding for research, Norway is definitely at the top of raining per capita. It is when we include business research that Norway comes down a little further. Public appropriations are high in Norway, while private enterprises’ own research appropriations are internationally low, at least lower than in many other countries. It is partly linked to the structure of the economy, and partly to the fact that we still have too little rates in Norwegian companies. We want to make that right. We had a good seminar yesterday, where we were just discussing how, together with business, we could further increase business research. But we are at the top in terms of public efforts, or among those countries that are at the very top in public research efforts. This government has strengthened research and will continue to strengthen research, because it is important for the growth capacity of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e146	I record that the Prime Minister did not answer the question of whether he shared the Minister of Industry's view that it was not so dangerous that we did not score so high, because he acknowledged that we did not score so high on innovation and research in business. On the contrary, he chose to talk about everything else. So in the international overviews of research and innovation, we score poorly. The sum of each of them is actually that we're in a bad position, and then we have a bad strategy for the future. In the last four of the last five budgets, this government has had less growth in research appropriations than in the government budget. They've cut food doctorates, they've put no more effort on innovation-oriented research funds. We have from the Right over half a billion more on just these measures because we sowed for the future. I repeat my question: are you satisfied with the situation you have, as expressed by the Minister of Industry? This shows a big difference in ambitions for Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e151	We're not satisfied, and that's why we want to do more. I am also quite sure that the Minister of Industry believes that we should do more in the field of research and innovation – he has been a strong driver for it in the government. That doesn't mean we haven't done much, and it doesn't do much. So we score high in many areas of innovation and innovation in private business. The strongest expression is over 200 000 new jobs in private enterprises, records in the number of entrepreneurs, in the number of start-ups and records in new jobs in private enterprises. It is a very strong, concrete expression that Norwegian business is doing well, and that a lot of new business is being created. Then we're going to get even better. It's partly about further increasing the appropriations, but it's also about being more concerned about what we get back for what we invest in research. Perhaps the most positive thing about Norwegian research now is that we are among the few countries that are increasing the number of publications in scientific journals and that Norwegian researchers are getting more articles published in scientific, international journals. It says something about the quality of Norwegian research, which is on its way up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e158	Four follow-up questions have been asked, and it is given an opportunity – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e161	I notice that the Prime Minister is diligent to tell what is happening in public regarding research, while the challenge for the Right has been to get more of the business active in this. Research and innovation is what secures our position as a knowledge nation and ensures our well-being. Yesterday, at the conference, the Minister of Industry repeated that he was not so concerned about the situation that we are behind the other countries in investing in research and innovation. I wonder if the Prime Minister will not be with the Right to trigger that major parts of the business can participate in this research. Perhaps there is the disagreement between the Minister of Industry, who is satisfied, and the Prime Minister, who has some promises now, which means that we do not see in the current budget any trace of the efforts that the Prime Minister is now trying to lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e169	I have not seen exactly what Trond Giske said, but I am absolutely sure that he does not believe that we are satisfied. That's why he's concerned that we're going to do even more on research and innovation and are a driver of it in a lot of areas. He has helped to ensure that we also increase research appropriations in this year's budget and facilitate more innovation. So it's not like we're not doing it. We do that, and that gives us good results. And then we want to do even more of that. Public research appropriations — this is what this is and the government is directly responsible for — are also high based on international objectives. Especially if you calculate in relation to the number of inhabitants, but also in relation to the national product, we're going to make a good international comparison. It is true that when we include private research, company research, we are lower. One reason is that in the oil sector, which is an important part of the Norwegian economy, the research share is low, in all countries, because it is a commodity-based industry, with high rents and high value creation compared to research efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e178	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e181	I allow myself to follow up the same thread. So yesterday, the State Council said Trond Giske both in the Address Paper and at the conference at which we were at, that it is the business community's fault that Norway scores poorly on innovation and research in international rankings, and he said that one of the reasons for this is that we have few skilled jobs in Norway. Prime Minister Stoltenberg himself said at the government's own knowledge banking conference in spring that national authorities have a responsibility to stimulate increased research in the business world, and that it is an objective that a larger part of the business community in the future should become competence-based, inter alia. to make us less dependent on energy prices in the future. The confusion today is even greater than it was yesterday. What is the government's policy? Is it a national responsibility to stimulate increased research in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e188	The answer to that question is yes. That means both the Minister of Industry and I.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e193	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e196	It has become a mantra, I think, from both the Prime Minister and the Council of State that you are not satisfied. I guess that's a kind of expression that you still have a job to do, and that you ask for some kind of trust to keep going. But you've done a lot in this area even in the red-green government so that you don't have to be satisfied. If we take a little look back, what has this government done on higher education and research? In 2006, the responsible minister himself said that a ‘sleep cutting’ had been introduced — that was his own certificate. So this government downplayed the ambitious goal of 3 pst. research and development shall be undertaken by GDP. And then they took care of the removal of the Research Fund, and they took care of the removal of the gift enhancement scheme. So you've really done a lot yourself to not be satisfied. What is it, with this history description, that makes you trust that you're actually going to do something in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e203	What makes us trust it when we say we're going to keep on investing in innovation, research and innovation is that we've done it and got good results. Firstly, research appropriations have increased by over 30 pst. real — a real growth. That's billions of dollars. Secondly, the results of Norwegian research, the quality of Norwegian research, have improved. I believe that a goal of success in this area is not just how much money you allocate to the area, but what you get left for them. And if you look at publications, in article writing, in recognized journals, which are really the best target we have on quality, it increases on the Norwegian side, as one of the few countries. Thirdly, we see that there is actually innovation in Norwegian business. The evidence is that Norwegian companies are established, that there are new start-ups and new Norwegian jobs, and that we are competitive, not because we are the cheapest, but because we are the best. Then we're going to take Norway on. We need to strengthen and further develop this, among other things. by continuing to increase appropriations, improving cooperation between industry and administrations and, more importantly, working for internationalisation and jobs for the very best, because they are the researchers of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e210	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e213	I also wondered about the statement to Giske in the address newspaper yesterday, but I will leave it. The Prime Minister mentioned the State budget for 2013 and it represents an increase of 1.4 billion. for research. However, what is the case is that large parts of this pot are eligible for international research cooperation quotas. It's important, but it can hardly be called bet. It's only going to go 40 million. SEK of this pot for nutrient research. How does this harmonize with a commitment to nutrient research?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e220	There must be more budgets over several years. There has been a steady escalation over several years, and the sum of there is a significant increase in research efforts, including for industrial research. It is, as I say, a commitment that will produce results on the one hand, by getting more back on public research appropriations, which are increasing, and on the other hand by using and using this research to develop Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian products. Once again: the evidence is in reality that we succeed in very many areas. But our success today is no guarantee that we will succeed in the future. Therefore, we need to continue to increase efforts, continue to improve cooperation between industry and the research community in order to improve even better in the future. Research is important, but at the same time, what determines whether we succeed in business is about doing things, and that's why we have to do more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e227	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e231	In one area, the government is providing for renewal, and that is the policy when it comes to the Lofoten/Western Pole. There the policy is renewed from hour to hour. Now, run a collection of oil in Sandefjord, state council says he will initiate activity, search drilling, in 2013. This is a vulnerable area and an important area for cod and the whole basis for lyophilisate. It is at a time when we are just happy to find oil and gas fields within already opened areas. We also open large areas in the Barents Sea, and we find relatively that the mainland economy in Norway is under pressure, and the oil industry is doing better than ever. Ola Borten Moe has previously sent out a press release from the Oil and Energy Department saying that he wants an opening of the Lofoten, and today he continues to say search drilling in 2013. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen says that the council “must take a cold shower and go for a long walk”. For once, the Christian People's Party may recommend the Council of State to drink something stronger than a shower! My question to the Prime Minister is, is it so that when expert councils in this government speak out, we can be sure that it is government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e238	Ola Borten Moe made it very clear what is the government's policy, and the government's policy is that during this process we do not open up oil and gas activities or exploration activities in the areas of Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II. What he's done is take part in a discussion in the Center Party about what they're going to think for the next big period. As for the next majority period, I think that many parties will have interesting debates – internally and even more interesting debates between themselves. I think we can all look forward to that. And then we meet at Soria Moria III and we agree on what the government thinks for the next big time. I agree with the representative Hareide that there are many areas on Norwegian pedestal, and that it may have been produced as if it were these areas that are the only one that determines the future of Norwegian pedestal. We have shown that we can facilitate too high activity on a Norwegian base by, first, having several concession rounds and distributing new licences in the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, second, getting to a dividing line with Russia, which allows new areas to become available in the north, and thirdly getting to an opening process around Jan Mayen and the Barents Sea south, and fourthly having good framework conditions. The sum of this means that we now have large investments on the Norwegian base, we have made large new findings, and that is a good development in Norwegian oil and gas industries. That's good, and then more parties and parties get to have a discussion about what's going to be the policy for the next majority period. The policy for this period is set out in the management plan and negotiated between the three parties. It also underlined Ola Borten Moe. I think we should now continue a responsible, step-by-step and knowledge-based approach and deal with these areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e249	This is where the Prime Minister is wrong. Ola Borten Moe sent out a press release in 2012 where he believed that one had to open the Lofoten and the Vestralen during the next majority period. What he's done for the last 24 hours is that he starts activity already in 2013 in the Vesterålen and Lofoten area. It's in the actual landfill period. Then my question becomes: is the understanding of Ola Borten Moe that he is not the Council of State 24 hours a day? Does Ola Borten Moe believe that he can express himself as a minister at one time and as a private individual at another? Or does he go with an experience that he may have his own Skybert-person who pronounces himself? I thought Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen had got that job in this government. [[Laughter]] I would like to repeat the question: when a expert council in this government speaks out, can we then trust that it is the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e258	You can, and I heard Ola Borten Moe on the radio this morning, and he made it clear that the current period was fixed, but that the next growing period starts after the election, when the new Stortinget is formed after the election. He had an opinion about what the Center Party should go in for then. It's an honest position he has, but then the Center Party first gets to figure out what their position is for the next magnification period. That debate – which certainly comes at the Central Party national meeting – I will not interfere, and other parties will have their debates. After the fall – which is until the fall, in September – a new ageing period also begins, and therefore there is time for the turn of the year. Then different parties get their opinion on what they mean for that ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e263	There will be three follow-up questions – the first question is from Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e266	The Prime Minister says that Borten Moe has participated in an internal discussion in the Central Party. I believe that everyone who has been present at the annual conference of the oil industry knows that it is relatively significantly different from a county annual meeting in the Central Party, but that is another matter. He has made it clear what he will recommend when the government is going to take these decisions, but there are several government councils that are responsible for the very issue of the Lofoten, the West and the future of the oil industry. The Minister for the Environment is responsible for the environment, the Minister for Finance is responsible for the money, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is responsible for the safety of the socket and the Minister for Industry is responsible for the supply industry and, in particular, the tourism industry. The question is then: Will the Prime Minister recommend all the other government councils responsible for these issues to go out with their recommendations in advance of the government's decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e275	I think we have to distinguish two things here: what is government policy, is defined in the management plan and relates to this ageing period and means that there will be no activity in these areas during this period. It's a clear point of view, it's solid, and it's confirmed by Ola Borten Moe – of course. Another discussion is about the next accumulation period. Without prejudice to hearing correctly on the radio this morning, I realized that Ola Borten Moe made it clear that he was talking about the next majority period, but the next majority period does not start next year – it starts after the election, until the fall. His assessment was that he would recommend that they then say yes to the opening. The government has not concluded that. We haven't even discussed it, because we'll get back to that when we win the election and sit and negotiate Soria Moria III. Before we negotiate Soria Moria III, the three parties have to clarify what they initially mean, and then there will be debates in several parties to clarify it. Then we meet, and then we decide what is the policy for the next big period, for a common government. That's why I think you've really mixed up two different things, and it creates confusion, but it's not because of Ola Borten Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e284	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e287	For those of us who follow the oil and energy policy to the government carefully and really every day, the oil and energy minister says a lot more than what he says in Political Quarter one morning. The fact that there are internal political debates in the Central Party must be accepted. I also accept that today's red-green parties do not fully know which policies to pursue after the next elections. It is also a position which the Prime Minister should take on today's opposition parties. But when an oil and energy minister sends out his private views on the government's letter paper, it is no longer an internal seminar. Then there is an opinion that needs to be interpreted as being on behalf of the government. If not, he's acting like a private person in the government, and I guess the prime minister doesn't think it's okay. But it happens at the same time that the Minister of Development is on Nature and Youth's summer camp and says that Norwegian oil and gas are a threat to people in the south. So the question is, is Norwegian oil activity a threat to people in the south?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e296	The answer to that question is no, and the government's policy is laid down in the documents presented by the government to the Stortinget. For example: the petroleum activity, it is contained in the notification of petroleum, and there we add up to a still high level of activity on the Norwegian base. With regard to the outlook on oil activities in Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II, it is set out in the management plan, and there we do not add up to activity there during this ageing period. There will be a discussion and negotiations on what will be the policy for the next majority period. It's part of democracy that we have that kind of discussion and discussion. Before the previous management plan, the Minister for the Environment expressed what he thought would be policy, then there was a discussion, and then we reached a conclusion and presented it to the government. So it's been in one party government, two party government and three party government, that you can have discussions before you've concluded, but once you've concluded, all the government councils are behind it. Here's a management plan that all the government councils are behind, even though they initially had slightly different opinions. But everyone agrees on the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e307	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e311	We have come to a point where we need to start and draw some clear and clear conclusions relating to the Lofoten and the Vestral, and on the Right we have done so. We believe that we should start work on an impact assessment. At the NHO Annual Conference, the Prime Minister said something like that we have so much knowledge that it is difficult to have more knowledge before we make a decision. Since the Prime Minister has now opened the discussion on what will happen after the next election, I have a question for the Prime Minister, by being the head of the Workers' Party: Has the Workers' Party now decided what they intend to do with the Lofoten and the West Pole? What is the Workers' Party's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e320	First, I think I should be a little cautious about standing here on the pulpit of the Great Britain and being the leader of the Labour Party, I stand here as Prime Minister, but I might say a little bit anyway. What I can say is that the Workers' Party fully supports the policy that this government has pursued. There has been a policy that has given many licences, many concessions, in many areas, in the Norwegian Sea, in the Barents Sea and in the North Sea, and laid the foundation for high activity, many great findings and developments on Norwegian pedestal. We've said we should have a step-by-step, knowledge-based approach. That's why we've also been a follower of knowledge acquisition in connection with Northland VI and VII and Troms II. Now we have that knowledge, and it gives us a good basis for deciding at our April national meeting whether we will go further and open the way for impact assessment in these areas as well. So at the national meeting in April, the Labour Party will give its answer to what we think about impact assessment. We've launched impact investigation around Jan Mayen, we've launched impact investigation in the Barents Sea south. If you go on, it'll be the first openings on the Norwegian base since 1994. And then we have to decide on these areas at the national meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e329	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e332	This was interesting, because in the statements from Ola Borten Moe, he has to base himself on opening up to oil exploration in 2013 that he will accept the 1994 impact assessment, a nearly 20-year-old impact assessment. Then it's interesting to know, according to what the Prime Minister now said, that the Workers' Party will decide later on whether they will launch an impact assessment. What is the view of the red-green government? A new impact assessment is needed to open up exploration also in Northern Ireland VI, or support the red-green government, Ola Borten Moe, by allowing this to be done on the basis of a 20-year-old impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e337	In unopened areas, impact assessment is necessary in order to open up. Important parts of Nordland VI have not been identified and have not been opened in the past, so that to open unopened areas, an impact assessment is needed. I think that's hard to implement. In this case, it will have to be started after the 2013 elections, and will take some time, even if one can use some of the knowledge contained in the knowledge we have now carried out as a basis for a possible impact assessment. It gets all the games back after the election. I also think that, on the civil side, there's obviously a little bit of different opinions, so there's going to be discussions. I'm doing everything I can to make the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party sit and discuss these questions in connection with Soria Moria III.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e344	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e347	Social protection has been one of the fundamental pillars of our welfare system. The base wall of popular security has been the pension system. The impact of the new pension system introduced in 2011 is now becoming increasingly apparent. Let me take a few examples: those who are pensioners today will have lower purchasing power development than those who are economically active in underregulation of 0.75 p.m. The new pension system means that the high-wages should be cut off if they are married or cohabited, while the low-wage, i.e. the cleaning worker who is married to the bus driver, should have a full curtailment. In addition, in the last few days of the media debate, we have seen that Norwegian youth is becoming one of the major losers in the pension system. This applies both in the private and public sectors. Let me give you one example: Kari was born in 1974 – otherwise a good year's worth. She is 38 today and started working as a nurse when she was 25. She works until she's 67. She was proposed a pension of 66 pst. of his final salary, but will get 53 pst. the final salary of the pension. She will get 51,000 kroner less in annual retirement than what she was suggesting. I record that more people are starting to worry that it is Norwegian youth, those who are going to pay for the welfare of the future, who are going to be the big losers. I see that both the YS, the LO State and the employer side want to look at new ways to get this done. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Does the Prime Minister think it is fair that the bill for the new pension scheme should be sent to Kari and Norwegian youth by getting far worse pensions than what they were suggesting?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e356	I believe that this is a wrong presentation of the pension reform we are now hearing. The pension reform proposes that we have good pensions both in the public and private sectors, that future pensioners will have higher pensions than current pensioners – they will continue to increase – and that both current pensioners and future pensioners will have their pensions regulated upwards, so that they will increase, provided growth in the economy, every year. So here it's about growth, but for some it's going to be a little bit less growth than it would be with the old system. Pensions will continue to increase, and future pensioners will also receive good pensions. In addition, we have taken some important steps in the reform of pensions. Among other things, we have, especially in the private sector, removed what we call the minimum pension trap, namely that people who have worked and had low incomes get zero supplementary pension. Now they get an additional pension. I think that's very important. The other thing we've done in the private sector is that we've provided a very great freedom of choice by getting rid of the 62-year-old pension and working as much as you like next door. It is one of the largest electoral reforms that have been carried out in Norway for many, many years. I think a lot of people really don't understand how much that freedom of choice is, that you can freely combine retirement and work from 62 years and beyond. It's good for the individual, who gets extra income, and it's good for society, who gets more value creation. In addition, it's more profitable to work, you get more left. We did not get such a good model in the public sector. We were concerned not to dictate a solution. We have to negotiate a solution for retirement. We did so in both the private and public sectors. What we got into the public sector was many important things, but not this flexibility, not this freedom of choice. We are prepared to renegotiate it, but I think we should wait for what the organisations actually say about it, whether they can gather and make a wish for negotiations. It is essential that we have a pension reform in both the public and private sectors that has provided a better pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e365	I would like to remind the Prime Minister that pension is not a gift from the state, pension is something you have paid for yourself and saved through a long professional life. I think it would be a paradox to implement the same cuts for Norwegian youth in Norway that are being carried out for Greek youth in Greece. I think that Norwegian youth really is something unintelligible about that. The Prime Minister also talks about the fact that we do not have that freedom of choice in the public sector. I am concerned that we should have the same freedom of choice in the public sector. The Progress Party is concerned that there should be consistency between what you pay for into a pension and what you get into a pension, including in the public sector. Unfortunately, we were alone in the position when we dealt with public service pensions in 2010. Initially, the Prime Minister agreed with us. Then he got vague and let himself dictate by the trade movement, and now you are more waiting again. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Will the Prime Minister, as part of the tripartite cooperation, take an active role in setting up a fair pension system also for the young, or will one continue to sit in the armchair, well backwards, and wait for Davidsen and Flöthen to knock on the door?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e374	We have set up a fairer pension system, and we have done so in cooperation with the social organisations, both LO and other organisations. This has given us a better, more sustainable and fair pension system both in the private and public sectors, but I would say especially in the private sector, because there we got a better model than what we got into the public sector. In Norway, we deal with these kinds of issues, the state does not dictate pension solutions, so we stressed, in line with the pension agreement, where it says that we should negotiate, that we should negotiate for a solution, and we came up with slightly different solutions in the private and public sectors. We're not going to dictate a new solution, that's not how we do it in Norway, but we're prepared to sit down with the organizations if they want to look at the public sector again. We have been very prejudiced in this matter. That is why we have made major changes. I am responding to the word ‘cut’, for pensions will continue to grow, purchasing power will continue to grow, both for current pensioners and future pensioners, but for some groups they will grow a little less. But getting a little bit less is not cut, it's getting a little bit less.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e383	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e387	It's true that getting a little bit less, still getting more. But if people realize that they have paid for a Volvo and get a Lada, most people will still feel cheated, even though they both have four wheels. The whole debate on pensions started again when the Banking Law Commission recently presented its report. The Banking Law Commission says that because people live longer — which we have known for a long time — and because lower expected returns are observed in financial markets, part of the pension benefits of private life companies are underfunded. That's why they think we need to change. To make changes to the pension scheme, a justification should be provided that it indicates a long-term expected lower return. When Norway’s Bank last year recommended that the rule of action be laid down to expect 10 pst. Return from the oil fund, the Prime Minister rejected it. In a chronicle in today's business on 23 February, he wrote that he believes it is still possible to achieve 4 pst. and that it is not right to translate the rule of action, which will work over many decades – only based on observations over a limited number of years. Does he believe that the Banking Law Commission is right in its premises, or has he changed his mind on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e398	Firstly, I think it is very important to distinguish between the location of the State pension fund abroad and the requirements for the placement of life companies. There are two quite different investment strategies, and therefore, of course, different returns. I am convinced that there is still a basis to assume that the expected return on the Pension Fund could be 4 pst. over time, and I have explained it quite thoroughly in various articles. With regard to the life companies, I will not conclude now. There we have received a comprehensive investigation from the Banking Law Commission. These are comprehensive technical things. The financial supervision has been asked to comment on this, and it has now been sent to the hearing. Then we have to go through it and conclude when that consultation is completed. I think it's a very wise approach to large and complicated areas. So I just want to clarify one thing: what we're talking about now is something quite different from what we've been talking about instead, because what we've been talking about before was the public-sector social security and occupational pension system. There we have a pension reform in place. These are the private occupational pension schemes, where we have a great diversity and very different arrangements, and where there is now some coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e407	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e410	The reform of pensions is important in order to ensure the security of pensions. At the same time, it is right, as the Prime Minister also says, that the reform has not been fully implemented. In particular, this applies to the public occupational pension. The challenge is that especially older workers in the public sector will lose weight in switching to the private sector — in other words, low flexibility in the labour market. There is also little incentive for longer working in the public sector. I agree with the Prime Minister that the state and the government should not dictate a solution. I also agree that this is a question of negotiation. The key question, however, is whether the Prime Minister will take initiatives towards the organisations to find a solution, because this is one of the Achilles heels of our pension system, both for those working in the public sector and for the flexibility of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e417	All organisations are well aware of our attitude. All organisations are well aware that we are ready to negotiate if they are now prepared to negotiate a model that is more in line with what we proposed in 2009, which gives it freedom of choice. However, I believe that it is now up to the organisations to decide whether they are prepared to negotiate on a different basis from what they entered into negotiations with in 2009. Secondly, I react a little to an image that is now recognizable that in the public sector the pension reform has not been implemented, while in the private sector it is ‘order and substance’. It's very wrong. In the public sector, key elements of the pension reform have been implemented and made it more sustainable — with the adjustment of life expectancy, indexing. In the private sector, it is – what to say – a very complex picture. The scheme is very different from that in the public sector. Some are much better and others are much worse. There are also problems with regard to free police and flexibility. So it's not like we have a simple and transparent system in the private sector and an inexhaustible system in the public sector. There are shortcomings both in the private and public sectors, and I will try to help – what we are going to say – to create fewer gaps in both sectors in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e424	Laila Bavøy – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e427	The Prime Minister was concerned about this with the adjustment of life. The general age limit in the country is 70 years. The Minister of Labour said to Dagsrevyen on 10 January that you can work after the age of 70. But we all know that this is not a right, and many feel enough that they are pushed out of work when they turn 70. One of the aims of the pension reform was to provide incentives to get people to work longer. Pension adjustment also means that people have to work longer if the pension is to be as good as previously foreseen. The question will then be whether the Prime Minister will be willing to increase the age limit for retirement to give greater incentives for workers to stay longer in work — and I think beyond 70 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e434	I don't quite remember, but I think maybe the age limit was 70 years on earnings -- I thought it was a little higher, but it doesn't matter. The crucial thing is that we agreed on an age limit in the pension agreement, and I will not go to Stortinget with the very first and begin to change what was negotiated in the pension agreement. I think it says it's a little stable over time. So the income limit in the pension agreement is part of the pension agreement, and negotiated between many parties here. The main objective was, in principle, to increase the participation of young people in the labour market. The problem was that people went off at the end of the fifties or after filling sixty or a couple and sixty. There we see that it helps. The freedom of choice of pension reform to combine work and pensions means that many more older people now either work longer or have a pension and work alongside them. Both parts are good for the individual, who gets increased income and increased freedom of choice, with the possibility of going a little out of work, and for society, who gets increased tax revenue. So the pension reform works and provides great opportunities, both for society and for the individual pensioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e441	Then we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e444	Northern areas are increasing in importance. At the same time, the government has put us in a situation where the preparedness and ability to carry out authority tasks is severely impaired. This applies across sectors, both in the field of justice and defence. The coastguard is missing helicopters due to a delivery that has been delayed for several years. The first NH90 helicopter was to be delivered in October 2005, but was not delivered until December 2010. Helicopter No 2 came last autumn, and no one knows when the remaining 12 helicopters are delivered. So that means that the old Lynx machines, which are already several thousand flying hours in overtime, have to continue and extend their lifetime. Of course, it has a major negative impact on the operational environment. It also has a significant negative impact on the ability to exercise sovereignty and seek and rescue at sea. Internal coastguards have four out of five ships for berth, at least out of February. At the top of this, there is still no decision on replacement helicopters for the rescue services now 40-year-old Sea King helicopters. They are increasingly in a state of crisis. The acquisition process has stopped twice. It has been marked by a lot of uncertainty, and the process has also dragged out very many years in time before it was finally sent out a new tender document. The sum of this is unacceptable. We are once again looking at processes related to social security and preparedness for lack of implementation by the government. Both immediate action is needed to remedy the situation, and the processes initiated need to be completed. The Prime Minister will certainly say that these things are in process. We know that, they've been for years. My question is, when will the process be completed, such that the rescue services and the Coast Guard have helicopters that can operate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e455	I agree that it is important that we have the ability to promote sovereignty, rescue and preparedness along our coasts. It's particularly important in the northern regions. There are large areas of hard climate. That is why it has also strengthened our ability to enforce preparedness in many areas. We're in the middle of a big flight deal. The purchase of new fighter aircraft is a very strong preparedness, which will also increase our ability to enforce preparedness and sovereignty in the northern regions. We bought new frigates. They are delivered and are now in activity. They've also strengthened our ability. In the case of helicopters, it is quite right that, in the case of both those to be on coastguard ships and rescue helicopters, there have been difficult and demanding processes. We have presented a statement of this to the Stortinget in the budget, and we intend to enter into an agreement during the year, so there is every reason to believe that we will conclude the necessary agreements during this year – explained in the State budget regarding rescue helicopters. Unfortunately, in the case of NH90, it is the supplier who has had serious problems. We have had to take remedial action to continue to extend the life span of the helicopters we have. It's worrying, but it's completely manageable that we're doing something longer with the helicopters we already have. Then we'll accept new helicopters as they come. We have received – as far as I understand – the first two. So we're dealing with this temporarily with remedial measures. Large investments have been made on the frigate side. We're on a fighter plane. Hopefully, we also get rescue helicopters in place during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e467	With all due respect: The battle lights – we get the first training planes in 2017 – do not operate search and rescue. This question is related to the Coast Guard helicopters. In addition, it does not increase the preparedness of the coastal population or of the population of other parts of the country to address the issue in a proposition to the Stortinget. The frigates are a different story. We're going to send a frigate to the Bay of Aden, with the consequence it has for the crew and the service of frigates here at home. Continuing to extend the lifetime of the Lynx helicopters is soon a parody. A little bit on the flip, it is said that the Lynx helicopters are now 30,000 spare parts flying in formation. This is simply because, among other things, it is no longer possible to obtain spare parts. It's the technicians and good mechanics who make spare parts. The aeroplanes are completely worn out. It has a negative impact on preparedness, and it has a negative impact on the ability to exercise sovereignty. The question remains: When is the government going to deliver and implement what is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e478	First, I think the fighter planes are part of our overall preparedness. They are also important for raising sovereignty, providing us with information on the northern regions and the large seas and can also be used for example. search and rescue. That's part of it, and we're doing these purchases. The frigates are important. They are among the world's most modern ships and provide us with a new and important platform to be present in not least the north. As far as rescue helicopters are concerned, as I have said, we are adding that we will have an agreement during the spring session – or at least during the year. It is stated in the State budget. Unless something unexpected happens, at least this case is on track, in the sense that we have concluded an agreement and are in the process of purchasing new rescue helicopters. I agree that it has taken too much time – there are several governments who have worked on this matter – but now it seems that we are going to be able to get a tender and make an agreement. In the case of the new NH90 helicopters, I dare not say when that matter will be resolved. So we're going to have to use these old ones until we get new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e491	Two follow-up questions have been asked, and it's given rise – first Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e494	I guess I'm not sure that a new fighter plane would calm a heart patient at the Finnmark coast for a rough day – when the Sea King doesn't come. It must be up to the Prime Minister. Sea King readiness has been poor for months in North Norway. There have been reports of concern both from the Police Master in Vestfinmark and from the Prime Minister's own county rapporteur in Finnmark. A little has happened. Until the last Friday, political leadership in the Ministry of Justice said that preparedness was good enough. I record that on Monday, the Ministry of Justice had changed its mind. The Prime Minister may have seen the problem and said that now the Minister of Justice also believes that preparedness should be better. In the past, the right has suggested hiring alternative materials to cover up for the hard-wearing Sea King. We also see, now that we've got the 339 Quadron back from Afghanistan, that there are opportunities to resume the ambulance preparedness that the Defense once had on Bardufoss. It will also improve preparedness. My question to the Prime Minister is, does he have any concrete thoughts about how to correct the poor helicopter preparedness in the north that we know today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e505	It's just the lack of and the problems with Sea King – an old helicopter that's been maintained and life-prolonged several times – that's why this government has put a great deal of emphasis on getting an agreement on buying new rescue helicopters. It is presented in the budget. We're suggesting that this could happen in the course of the year. Now something is finally happening, because we have done something about this matter, which is very important and very serious. I still believe that the fighter planes are part of our overall preparedness in the north – not of course for patient transportation, but for other preparedness missions and for the lifting of sovereignty in the north. That's the reason for buying these fighter planes. It's set at 340 million. kr to correct the problems we have seen with the Sea King helicopters. When the Sea King helicopters are not available, alternative resources are deployed – resources available to the Main Rescue Centre. It could be civil, or it could be military. So we'll put in alternative materials when the Sea King helicopters are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e516	Jan Arild Ellingsen – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e519	On 16 May 2002, the Stortinget held a fundamental debate on the future rescue helicopter service in Norway, which was largely backed by all parties. So when the government has now promoted a proposition, a proposal, to buy new rescue helicopters, it will take 15-20 years from Stortingen to have its basic debate. That seems to me to be a long way to go – with all possible respect – towards those who do a fantastic job based on the expectations of security and security that the population has. It's the state that has the overall responsibility here. When a builder of an oil and gas field is required to initiate his process, the central government is required to provide its own emergency response. If you see this in context, my question to the Prime Minister is: Would the Prime Minister and the government have accepted that a builder – Statoil, for example, – spent 15-20 years setting up his own preparedness as a builder, as the state does?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e526	There are problems with the Sea King helicopters, but it's not like we're not ready. The Sea King helicopters are an essential part of our preparedness. They function and carry out many important rescue and preparedness tasks. When they can't work, we have alternative resources. Then we dispose of the resources of the Head Rescue Center, both civil and military. It's not that we accept that it's not ready. On the contrary, we are just concerned that it should be prepared, either with the Sea King helicopters or with alternative solutions, which we dispose of through the Main Rescue Center. It is not that we accept – neither in the oil business nor in public emergency services – that we are not prepared, but we see that the Sea King helicopters need more often alternative solutions. That is why we finally started the purchase process for new rescue helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e533	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e545	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice and Security, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be raised by the representative of Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e565	So question 1 is deferred until the next question hour. So the first question is going to be question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e572	The question is to the Minister of Finance. «In answer to written question No. 1,296 for 2011-2012, the Council of State on the requirement for the submission of award decisions as evidence of the rights of private enterprises to compensation for VAT, writes that it will ‘ask the Tax Directorate for a more detailed assessment of the extent to which access to the award decisions is a problem for private enterprises and, where appropriate, ways of resolving it’. Rejection of claims for compensation in specific cases shows that the Council of State may not have initiated its informed assessment. When will this happen and can changes in practice be expected?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e586	First just a little bit about the purpose of the compensation scheme. It is there to counter distortions of competition resulting from the VAT system. Compensation for VAT is granted to municipalities, county councils and certain private and non-profit institutions serving households. In order for private or non-profit institutions to be entitled to such compensation, they must provide health and care services, educational services or social services which the municipality or county council is required to provide by law. The construction of dwellings by private or non-profit institutions to provide care has raised specific questions as to what is to be considered to be the production of regulated services. That is why we said in the revised national budget that we will assess the need to clarify the law. We are now also looking at the documentation requirements for compensation. The requirement shall be verified and certified by the statutory auditor. In cases where private or non-profit institutions provide and rent housing for the care of the municipality, but the care services themselves are provided by the municipality, the tax administration requires that the statutory auditor’s certificate be based on the relevant municipal award decisions. Of course, the right to compensation rests on the fact that residents receive the care and care of their luck. In order for this to be done correctly, the scope of the health and care services provided in each apartment needs to be documented. Only the municipality award decisions provide such information. As the fleet representative refers to, it has emerged from private sources that access to the grant decisions in the municipality is problematic. That is why the Ministry of Finance has asked the Directorate of Taxation to investigate it more closely. The Tax Directorate states that, in some cases, reference is made to the obligation of professional secrecy of municipalities in order to present these decisions. That is why I have submitted this question to the Ministry of Health and Health for an assessment. I can promise the representative Fleet that I will give priority and take care of progress here, so that we get a final answer on how this is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e599	In that case, it is good if you can get ahead of this, because what happens in the meantime is that municipalities and other institutions lose significantly in this regard. I brought this up in light of the fact that there were municipalities that were having trouble with it, but in the meantime I have also been informed that, for example. The rescue arm, in its drug-dependent housing projects, may lose between 3 and 4 million. kr per year. Then this is pretty serious. What I would like to ask the Council of State – this is his responsibility, even though he is now moving it a little over to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and we heard here earlier today that they have more than enough to do – is: Will he do anything to make this happen very quickly? I think it's quite crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e608	It is the Ministry of Health and Welfare that deals with the legal and regulatory issues of professional secrecy in relation to the type of issues involved, such as: health and care services, but I can promise that I will do what I can to get a quick clarification from the Ministry of Health and Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e613	I would like to make a new angle to this, so that you may not need the assistance of the Ministry of Health and Health: it is a fact that this is part of our tax legislation, and it is quite special that the principles of tax law, i.e. compensation in this case, are made subject to voluntary disclosure of decisions relating to individuals. As a proposal to the Council of State, I would say that the Ministry of Finance should be able to go in and change these rules so that we do not get this issue of professional secrecy, but get another method to control it in the same way. I have absolutely proposals for this, if the Council of State wants to hear, but I am watching the clock that it will not be today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e620	There are two things: one is that it is now important to get an answer to this with the obligation of professional secrecy from the Ministry of Health and Health. In parallel with that, we are working on simplifying the legislation, so that it will make it easier for those who are entitled to compensation. In this respect, I will also assess what the representative fleet is now addressing. We must ensure that it becomes a good, simple and comprehensible regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e629	«The Banking Commission recently submitted proposals for changes to the pension scheme. The background is the under-coverage of life-assurance schemes due to increased life expectancy and lower expected returns from financial markets. If changes in expectations are to lead to changes in pension systems, it has to be assumed that many decades of horizons exist in the development of financial markets. Does the Council of State believe that the return on financial markets in the next decades will be at a lower level than in the last decades?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e636	Initially, I would like to say that it is important to have a sustainable pension system that provides security in old age and that also supports what we call the workline. This is why private occupational pension schemes need to be adapted to new public welfare. This is what the Banking Act Commission has done, where three settings have now been made. A benefit pension involves promises of payment of fixed-term or life-long benefits. These promises must be fully financed at all times. In this context, increased life expectancy must be taken into account. The pension system needs to be robust for changes in both population and life expectancy, and it is important to encourage workers – by being at work – to adjust their life expectancy in a way. That is why it is important, with the job that the Banking Commission has now done, which has looked at the adaptation between social security and occupational pension in the private sector, that good solutions be found for the future. Providers of the pension product, e.g. insurance corporations guarantee a certain return on those funds. The average interest rate guarantee to customers in 2011 was at the lower of 3.3 pst., while the book capital return in what is called the collective portfolio was 4.2 pst. in 2011. The proposal for a new private-sector collective service product is not justified by the level of expected future financial returns. On the other hand, the proposals of the Banking Law Commission provide for a different distribution of risks between employer, employee and pension provider than is the case today. Part of the risk of future development is transferred from the insurance company to the employer or employee, depending on the choice within the new product proposal. The companies can also offer, and get paid specifically for, a guarantee that the funds of a scheme will receive a certain return. One of the reasons for the proposal submitted by the Banking Law Commission is that employers have wanted greater predictability of future premiums. There is some background to the proposals that have now been put forward. I have now sent the latest investigations from the Banking Law Commission to the hearing. That hearing takes three months. When the hearing is over, I will come back to the matter and make a proposition for the Storting, so that the Storting can deal with these questions during the harvest session this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e651	My focus is on assessing financial markets. The Council of State says that this, that is, the background to the proposals that have now been made, is not related to the expectations of lower returns, but is just a redistribution of the risk, if I understood it correctly. It seems to me that a little strange justification, if that's understood correctly, because if you go along with these changes, it means that the purpose here – everything else like – is to make life's companies get better out and pensioners get worse out, because pensioners get more of the risk and life's companies less of the risk. I do not fully understand that policy. I would like the Council of State to justify what he said one more time. I cannot understand making changes to the pension system that strengthen the banking industry at the expense of pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e658	With regard to the very reason for the proposal from the Banking Law Commission, I refer to what I said in my answer, which is the basis of the Banking Law Commission. When you sign a pension insurance or enter into a pension agreement, you have a expectation that you will receive an amount or a capital at the time you retire, but it assumes that the person who will deliver this product actually has cover to deliver the product. So there are many ways that there is a destiny between the one who manages and who is going to deliver the product and the one who's going to have the pension. Worse than that, it's not. Then it is important to make sure that you also have solid and good insurance companies that can actually deliver the product that you as a pensioner expect to be delivered on the day you retire.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e665	The last explanation suggests that either the life companies have previously sold a product for which they did not have funding – and then they have oversold what they had – or the person who is going to deliver the product sees that future returns are not going to be as high as they thought, and therefore renegotiates a risk assessment. My opinion is that this is the last thing that is happening. Last year, the Bank of Norway said they didn't think the return on the oil fund would be about 4 pst. as previously assumed, but approximately 3 pst. The government rejected it. Now I believe that what we see from the Banking Law Commission is the same reality that Norway's Bank presented. That is why it is interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's assessment: if one is on what the Prime Minister said last year, it is still expected to be 4 pst. real returns because the stock markets will stay at that level despite some turbulence now? In that case, the foundation for making the changes that are now taking place really disappears, because then the life companies should know what kind of returns they could expect in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e672	One of the most difficult exercises you can do, both as a politician and as a private individual, is to predict the future and be sure of what's going to happen. Therefore, it is important before the future comes, so to speak, to take into account both that the future may be unpredictable and that changes may occur in both directions. A challenge for life companies is, among other things, new, up-to-date figures in 2010 at so-called mortality risk show that one in the existing products, in particular linked to the problem of free police, has underestimated the evolution of life expectancy — so there is one type of challenge. The second is that it is not possible to estimate the kind of returns you will receive in the financial market in the years to come. The reason for the 4 pst position was that one based on the long lines backwards when one looked at the return on the share market. What I think we can quickly agree on is that there is uncertainty that characterizes this, and then we have to make sure to have the safest possible arrangements in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e685	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: “The day’s revision had a case on 8 January about a person who had served in the Defence, among others. in several international missions. He was left with a negative experience of the defence as an employer, among others. because he did not receive an answer to written questions after illness. Does the Council of State think this case shows that the defence has a significant potential for improvement as an employer, or is the Council of State well satisfied with the state of things?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e694	I look very seriously at the failure of the procedure in the case in question. It shouldn't be like that. The defence has therefore carefully reviewed the procedures. The veteran who brought the case up has shown great concern for his fellow soldiers by notifying the defense. The Government Action Plan ‘In service for Norway’ places emphasis on the recognition and preservation of veterans. The health of the staff is devoted to a considerable amount of space. The history of the veteran also shows how important it is for the individual to follow up on his or her own health. There have recently been a number of media lookups about and, naturally, a lot of attention around this matter. Let me say something about what the defense has done. The defense has a strong focus on being available to the veterans. In connection with the last media storage, the opening time of the Defence Veterinary Service was immediately extended in order to be able to receive prompt enquiries. The defense will connect its health records against the cancer registry to see if there is an excess of cancer among personnel serving in Kosovo. The aim is that this should be part of a regular reporting on the health of personnel and that all areas of service and relevant disease groups should be included on a permanent basis. The first work shall be completed as soon as possible. Several studies have been carried out at national level on personnel who have served in international operations. Three of the studies include personnel from Kosovo. The conclusions show that the incidence of disease is generally not higher than that of the rest of the population. Defence will also collect information from other allied countries and will continue to follow up on international research. A number of research projects on the health of veterans are currently being carried out, including: the life-cycle survey conducted by the Statistical Central Bureau will be able to provide answers to several issues. The survey covers the period from 1978 to today and will be available during the spring. International studies show that there is no reason to say that there is a demonstrable link between cancer and service in the Balkans. However, the studies still recommend further research, including: because disease can develop over time. As part of the implementation of the action plan ‘In service for Norway’, the measures will be further developed. This includes, inter alia: further research and implementation of actions based on research results. That we succeed is essential for a real and good care of our veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e717	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and let me also pay tribute to the Council of State and to the government for the work they have done so far. Yet there are some paradoxes in this, I think. I was on a bookcase with the Council of State some time ago. There it was, among other things. mentioned an example of a person who came home, and remembering that I was not wrong, it was said something such as that it is worse to fight Nav after a foreign service had ended than to carry out the mission outside. It shows that doing a job outside is seen as affordable, but when you come back and have help, it is directly by the Defense or by other public authorities, you meet a wall that you may not be prepared for. I think it's a surprise for many people who have felt they've taken a load – they've done a job that none of us would, or had the ability or the ability to do, and then you meet with a lack of respect and attitudes that are not good. Since it is almost eight years since the Council of State first joined in the job she now has: what does the Council of State worry most about in the future about what those who have served outside meet when they come back?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e726	Yes, it is more than seven years since I became Minister of Defense for the first time, and I just have to say that some of the first things I got hold of – because there was a situation where some veterans had gone to court with the state because they had not received their fair compensation – were the arrangements for veterans. It had been made sad little before that time. That's why we put in place a replacement scheme, we got in place a better veteran service, and we've not least got in place something that's been important to the veterans: recognition and good and worthy ceremonies, which really show that Norwegian society appreciates the efforts of the veterans. In the case of health care, it is important to follow. Although the health of the defense has a good investigation in advance of an area to which they send soldiers, they may later show that they may have been exposed to things that may affect health. Then it's important that we follow along, and that's exactly what we do in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e733	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and as I said before, I give the government credit for the job it has done. There is no doubt that there has been a lack of recognition of those who have done the job for us. It's been missing for a long time, and fortunately, we've increased our focus. I think that's quite in place and obviously in time. At the same time, there is another paradox in the matter. What strikes me, at least, is: Hadn't the person in the case with which I started the question, went to the media, what had happened in this case? And how many others are sitting with similar problems, but who have problems taking the first step on the way to pointing out: I have a problem, and I need help to solve it. I'm afraid that many of those who have served outside will end up in a situation where you isolate yourself, rather than standing up in the media or elsewhere and asking for help. Governments have talked about the fact that the living conditions survey is going to be interesting. But is the Council of State sure that the living conditions survey will provide the answers regarding the perhaps most vulnerable, those who withdraw and do not want to be offensive to the challenges you face after the end of service?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e740	As it is a comprehensive life-cycle survey, I hope that those who receive an enquiry will give feedback. We're dependent on that. But the very best tool is to check the health records of the defence against the other public health records available, for example. the cancer register or other types of health records. That way, we can detect disease. What is very important in this case is that we now do such a register survey. We hope that it will be completed in a reasonably short time, preferably before Easter. We can do that study again in just the same group, i.e. the Kosovo veterans, to see if more cases have occurred, for example. cancer and what type of cancer. The frequency will indicate whether we should proceed with investigations for the individual soldier. We can do this in several areas, and it's a very important tool to really follow up on how soldiers' health goes in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e751	‘How does the Council of State assess the situation of Aarhus with regard to patient safety and treatment, space conditions, capacity and conditions for employees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e756	We have reason to be proud of Ahus. Ahus is a modern hospital – one of Europe's most modern hospitals. There is great interest in this hospital, both from Norway, the Nordic countries, Europe and the rest of the world, and for good reasons. It's leading in the transition to day surgery, among other things, which is a patient-friendly operating model. 66 pst. of all surgery is now being performed as a day surgery. There are about 5,000 births this year, and this is also Norway's largest emergency hospital, which receives an average of 120 immediate-help patients per day. Ahus does not have a different level of unfortunate events compared to other hospitals, as you can get the impression. We have to remember that Ahus is the country's largest emergency hospital, with about 500,000 patient contacts every year. The hospital has chosen to publish anonymised versions of reports of adverse events. This will increase media awareness, but it makes being a patient safer. When we use a new hospital, we need to be open to adjustments. I understand that the signs of sub-capacity we've seen are disturbing. The Ministry has signaled to Health South-East that the management at Aarhus must be clear in its communication when critical reports of operating and working conditions appear, and I expect the hospital management to address the concerns to find out what has happened. I see that now is the case – they respond offensively, and that is good. In addition, the County Doctor investigates where appropriate. It is in line with normal treatment of such cases. I'm briefed that health south-east, in close dialogue with Ahus, is now taking more action. Among other things, eight new medical homes are granted, which will improve the capacity. Ahus’ catchment area and capacity shall also be assessed. I have noticed that the management of Ahus and the trustees of the doctors to the press indicate that they do not want to reduce their patient's preference. Nevertheless, it is natural for this issue to be raised and considered. For my part, I do not exclude an alternative with adjustments in the hospital admission area if, overall, it appears to be a good solution for the patients. A plan for improved capacity in the short term will be in place within a few weeks. Aarhus has already recognised that the acute reception capacity is too low and is expanding the capacity of the reception significantly during the year. In addition, the hospital wants to expand the bed capacity at the clinics. I am pleased that measures are being taken to improve capacity, but will await my final assessment until the capacity assessments and the capacity plan are completed. I'll follow it closely. Until this is completed, Aarhus will have to deal with the situation in cooperation with the other hospitals in the region if situations and days of high need for emergency assistance and hospitalisation occur during periods. Finally, let me repeat this: there is no doubt that parts of the staff at Aarhus are experiencing the situation as demanding. They may experience that attention to individual matters creates an impression that is out of proportion — to all the good work done conscientiously and in line with the high expectations of society. We owe patients and employees the opportunity to facilitate the hospital's proper performance of their duties. The ministry and I are following this continuously, in close contact with Health South-East and Ahus.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e773	Thanks for the answer. Yes, we're going to be proud of what works at Ahus and at all our other hospitals, but what doesn't work, I don't think we're going to talk proudly about. They are absolutely necessary, the measures that Ahus is now taking — to provide more beds and also more staff or medical homes. But these measures were pointed out by the nurses, among others, a year and a half ago. In the letter that they then wrote to the division director, they asked to ‘put in a better crew that takes into account real operation’, and also to have to open and staff available beds at Aarhus, Ski Hospital and the patient hotel. So it takes two years before these things happen. Is that satisfactory? Is there anything the Council of States can be proud of?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e778	I think the Prime Minister answered exactly the same question an hour ago. It's not like you haven't done things on Ahus since that letter came. Neither did Ahus need that letter to take action. There are ongoing measures in place in Aarhus to adapt resources to needs and demand. There are hundreds of doctors and more nurses employed. Hitting this isn't easy. We have had an influenza epidemic before and after Christmas, and before Christmas we had a gastric infection epidemic, both of which caused a great burden to the hospital. Then there's pressure on resources. I think we have to live with that. But I don't think it's good that Aarhus only now responds to a letter that came in 2011. No, there have been actions all the way here. I think you now have a more stable operation. I fully agree with the representative that the conditions we do not have reason to be proud of, we should not be proud of either. We'll get hold of them, do something with them. It is the hospital's responsibility, but it is also something that the health minister follows closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e785	The supervisory report from the County Medical College last autumn writes in black that it is uncertain whether the measures referred to by the Labour Inspectorate have been put into practice. That's what the County Doctor points out. Ahus’ management is unable to prove that what the Labour Inspectorate asked for has been completed. It's alarming, and we can't have such a reporting system. When the Labour Inspectorate comes with instructions, it is expected that they will be followed up. What will the Council of State do with such a reporting system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e790	I find that the County Game didn't say this was a break. It was uncertain whether the measures were implemented – that is, a slightly unclear wording. I want to give a general answer to this. I assume that the hospitals are following the instructions that come from the inspections. They're under close control from, I think, 11, 12, 13 different supervision. It's in itself a great task to deal with them. I agree that they comply with the laws and regulations and follow up the decisions and references that come from the inspections when they are visiting. Once again, I just want to come back to the fact that there are no reported higher differences in Aarhus than the average for other hospitals. Ahus has the greatest number of acute patients and complex situations, and they deliver well. It was also interesting to see that when the media storm was as bad as it was around Ahus, over 80 pst. of those affected, that they were satisfied with the hospital. They were slightly above the level of what is the average for many other hospitals. After all, it shows that the experience of those who have close contact with the hospital is consistently positive. We have to do everything we can to get to the conditions that are not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e801	‘On Friday 4 January 2013, the Official Journal of Bergen reported under the following heading: ‘Examining the submarine at Fedje – again.’ Furthermore, it states that the vessel ‘Skandi Skolten’ shall carry out surveys of the submarine U-864 through a mission from the Coast Guard. Only in a year's time can people at the Fedje expect the answer. The government's handling of the submarine and its mercury cargo on board the submarine is an environmental policy scandal marked by government lifting breach. New conclusions on raising versus coverage and new investigations have exposed actual measures. What is the government's plan, and when shall the mercury load in U-864 be removed?"
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e808	Environmental and coastal considerations, and not least coastal population, are crucial in this matter. We have to choose the safest option in both the short and long term to deal with mercury both in and around the wreck of U-864. This means that thoroughness and quality must govern that work. In the revised 2012 national budget, the government therefore briefed the Stortinget that two concrete alternative environmental measures should be planned – one alternative to which the wrecked cargo and contaminated seabed is covered, and one alternative with the removal of mercury containers from the wreckage and subsequent cover of wreckage and contaminated seabeds. Furthermore, it was briefed that the pre-projects will be subject to external quality assurance prior to the submission of the case to the Enlargement for decision on implementation, in line with the usual practice of large-scale State projects. The planning of actions must be based on an up-to-date and accurate factual basis. Therefore, this year, the Coastal Plant is implementing new detailed surveys both of the wrecked and of the seabed in two phases – phase 1 now in January and phase 2 in the summer. Data from January mapping will provide the basis for the best possible targeting of summer surveys. So it's not like there's just a new general investigation going on. No, on the contrary. The Coastal Plant carries out targeted detailed surveys with the latest and best equipment in underwater technology, for the planning of the two concrete alternative environmental actions. The depth and quality must be the guiding force in the U-864 process. In the interests of the environment and safety, we cannot allow anything else. The coastal works' pilot projects and the recommendation on the choice of method have been assessed at present to be completed for an external quality assurance for the autumn, but the time of completion will depend on the results of the wreck and seabed surveys. As soon as the external quality assurance is available, the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner on the matter. After the Storting has dealt with the matter, an order for the implementation of the environmental measure must be placed on the market. Therefore, it is too early to conclude exactly when action can be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e821	It's been ten years since the submarine was found. It is gratifying that new studies seem to confirm that the mercury load is most likely to lie in the wreckage area, but there are studies that should have been carried out a long time ago. Most of these ten years are the current government of Stoltenberg, which has been responsible for the matter. So it's been ten years since localization. It is important for the population of Fedje, for the West and for Norway that the government commits itself in a credible manner, and therefore it must and should be possible to provide an obliging response as to when the government will ensure that the mercury load has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e826	As the representative of Sortevik says, this is a matter that has remained for ten years since the submarine wreck was found. It has been investigated, it has been discussed, and there is no doubt that it is a complicated matter. We have no practice other places in the world to look at, and we have to find the solutions ourselves. In parallel with doing things, not least technology is also developed. We have probably – at least I assume that I and the representative have – seen the latest images on TV, where you can see things in a completely different way from what you could have done before. I have also been to Fedje several times, I have met many who are concerned about this matter. What I have committed myself to – and to which the government has committed itself – towards the people of both Fedje and other coastal areas is that we should find the best environmental action. I think they're more concerned with it than we're going to follow the proposals of the Progress Party to rush through things without having thoroughly investigated it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e833	We're a lot of people who've been to Fedje more than once. There is experience in raising submarines internationally. What should be a manageable recovery operation, including: According to Mammoet Salvage and other international rescue experts, instead, a political revolution has become with changing solutions and broken political promises. Helga Pedersen, Vice-Chairman of the Labour Party and then Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, promised on 29 January 2009 – it was four years ago, rather accurately, today – that the wreck should be lifted and contaminated seabeds covered. Nevertheless, the government is still investigating a cover-up option. What is the government's guarantee that mercury will be removed, and when should it be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e842	With respect to reporting, I must be allowed to say that the experience of lifting submarines is difficult to use in this case. The submarine, the wreck, the wrecks -- that's not the problem. The problem is mercury. Had it been without mercury, well these pieces would have been removed too far away if it was a goal in itself to remove them. The target is mercury. There must be no evidence that there is experience, that there is technology to extract when it comes to solving what is really the problem. It's not the submarine wreck, it's the mercury. It's a substance that, to put it mildly, requires complex solutions. There's a little difference between mercury and oil collection equipment and what you need there, and that's what's always been the risk of a cancellation operation. We have said – and I repeat it again: we are concerned about finding the absolutely best solution. Whatever it becomes, it has to cover up an area there, because we don't have the opportunity to get up absolutely all of the mercury contamination on that seabed. Something has to be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e853	‘The report of the National Audit Office on 11 December 2012 shows that there has been a significant increase in the operating costs of toll companies from 2005 to 2011. In 2011, operating costs amounted to a total of 12,5 pst. of the revenue. In 2010, two toll companies had far higher costs of operating the booms than they received in tolls. How will the Council of State ensure that we have a system for collecting tolls that drivers can trust, and where does the money go and not administration?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e860	Today, the drivers are involved in financing a large proportion of road construction in Norway, and the aim of the government is to ensure that this collection is as effective as possible. In its report, the Court of Auditors concluded that the objective of the lowest possible cost of toll collection has not been achieved in recent years. The national audit is clear on where there is potential for improvement, and they also provide constructive assessments and recommendations. Of course, the Ministry of Transport will provide the best possible follow-up to those recommendations. I am of the opinion that a well-managed toll system is a system in which the costs of operation are minimised, and also a system that provides the least possible disadvantage to road users. In fact, in its report, the National Audit Board stresses that the automation of the toll collection, which has largely taken place in recent years, has helped to achieve a target of the least possible disadvantage for road users and is positive about how the automation of toll collection has contributed to good traffic management and improved road safety. In a number of areas where the Riksrevision points to weaknesses, change processes are already under way, and action will be taken during the year. I would like to mention three of them: one is that it is working to increase the share that uses electronic chips through its own chipsets, and the planned introduction of mandatory chips for all heavy vehicles, i.e. vehicle above 3500 kg. Mandatory piece for light-duty vehicles is also a valid question to consider in the longer term. A public consultation has now been carried out on a legislative proposal that will open the way to mandatory tags for all heavy vehicles, and the Ministry intends to submit a legislative proposal to the Stortinget on this issue as soon as possible. There will also soon be a consultation on the regulation related to this bill, which means that one can see that such a system can come into force during 2013. The second measure, which is also important to follow-up, is a move towards fewer and larger toll companies. It will be important to improve the efficiency of toll collection through economies of scale and more professional operation of companies. On behalf of the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Roads is already well in the process of preparing a system of fixed regional or county toll companies. The first regional toll companies will hopefully also be in place from the beginning of 2013 to 2014. In addition, the Ministry of Transport has also taken action to help the toll companies obtain the best possible loan conditions, including: by way of derogation from the toll write-off requirement. As a direct consequence of the National Audit Office’s recommendations, the Ministry of Transport has also looked at how the overall management and follow-up of toll management can be improved. In concrete terms, we have asked for a much more comprehensive reporting of accounting data, for which analysis of the accounts and operating costs is also of what will be included. An increase in the number of projects means that greater emphasis must be given to users and road users and that we must have the most effective collection of the toll projects we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e877	I would like to thank you for the good answer. I think the moves that the Council of State has now made are very positive. It seems important to me when we read this report from the Riksrevision, because it is very clear that the toll collection does not take place at the lowest possible cost. The company has large losses on receivables as a result of road users not paying for their passages. It is also clearly stated that the Ministry of Transport has a ‘very overarching role’ and gives little guidance signal in this area, and that there are ‘weaknesses at the State Road Service’s follow-up to the toll companies’. I agree with those measures, but one of the measures taken by the Council of State is the mandatory piece, not only for the heavy goods vehicles, but also for those who are easier, and the Council of State in its reply says that this is the case ‘in the longer term’. So my question is, why can't it happen in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e884	It is nice that the representative Hareide thinks there were positive leads in my answer. There is very important work in the department in this area. With the measures that the government is now working on, I think during 2013, you may see a significant change in the management and organisation of toll collection in Norway, just a reform of what you have seen so far. Part of the background for it's of course that on average 12.5 pst. revenue goes into operating costs is too much. This has to be done, where the Ministry of the National Audit Office sees recommendations and references as an important basis, including in the work already started. In the case of the heavy goods vehicles in relation to the light-duty vehicles, there are some more complex questions, such as: data protection issues – related to the light-duty vehicles in relation to what professional traffic has to do with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e891	I thank you again for your answer. I still thought that we should get to grips with a toll bar in all vehicles, we must have ambitions in this area. This is what I want from the Council of State, because I feel that this will be an important tool in reducing costs. I support a toll reform, and one of the things we know that the State Road Service has been concerned with, among other things. in this work previously, is a competitive outsourcing of operations. So my question is, isn't there an ambition to get a mandatory piece on the lighter vehicles, because the Council of State uses the word 'in the longer term'? My second question concerns what is involved in the competitive outsourcing of operations. Is this a tool that can become relevant in this toll reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e900	Firstly, as I said in my original answer, it is a longer term goal to have a mandatory piece in all vehicles, also in light vehicles, but there are some more issues related to the general passenger traffic that one has to go through in the meantime. It would be a shame if someone would wait with the heavy vehicles. Therefore, the government has chosen to address the issue of mandatory pieces for the heavy-duty vehicles first, also because we know that there are very many foreign heavy-duty vehicles currently travelling on Norwegian roads, and it is important that they also contribute when using Norwegian roads. This is a little bit of the background for it, but that we have a common goal of a mandatory piece in the longer term, there is no doubt about it. With regard to the issue of competitive outsourcing: it is difficult to see the concrete benefits to be derived from competitive outsourcing in this area. I think the big benefit is that you both get the best terms and conditions relating to interest and the loans raised, and that you get a reform in terms of the number of toll companies in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e911	This question, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be raised by the representative of Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e914	‘In the climate agreement, phase-out of oil firing is foreseen by 2020. New and extended State aid schemes were to be set up from 1 January 2013 in order to achieve this objective. The government has not followed up. In Oslo, the municipality has its own support schemes for phase-out of oil fires, but state legislation is designed to prevent Oslo’s aid scheme from triggering equivalent aid from Enova. Will the Council of State clean up so that we can make a strong commitment through an interaction between municipal and state schemes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e921	The Ministry of Oil and Energy has overarching management of Enova and follows the principle of target and result management. Enova is governed mainly by four-year agreements. Enova has, over the past ten years, developed a solid competence in the market areas in which they work and within. In June 2012, a new four-year agreement was concluded on the management of the funds of the Energy Fund for the period 2012 to the end of 2015. Enova thus received a long-term mandate for her further work. As a follow-up to the decision of the Storting relating to the treatment of the Report. St. 21 for 2011-2012 on the prohibition of fossil fuel oil firing in households and the baseload in other buildings from 2020 requires support schemes from 2013 and other instruments for a transitional period, it is in the current agreement inter alia. confirmed that: ‘The funds may finance a specific scheme for the conversion of fossil energy carriers into households and to the baseload. The scheme shall build upon the development of a competitive market for heating based on energy carriers other than electricity and fossil fuels.’;» The Ministry of Oil and Energy stresses that support through Enova should not overcompensate. The resources of the Energy Fund shall therefore be managed in such a way that the tasks assigned are carried out in the most cost-effective manner possible. Efforts shall be made to develop programmes aimed at triggering the grants granted for the supported project. It follows from the Enova governance model that it is up to the entity itself to develop instruments and support programmes under the Energy Fund. Enova, on the Board of Directors, is responsible for the support schemes, including the interaction between their schemes and other grant schemes. However, it has been common to provide no disparity of public support on top of each other — shopping in different public bodies — just to support efficient use of resources and to ensure that the funds are just triggered. I am aware that in the autumn of the year, Enova, at the Board of Directors, launched a major strategy work, including: with the intention of looking at the programme structure in the light of the new agreement. Enova itself launches its support schemes to the market. However, I am aware that the launch of the changes is imminent, and therefore we should be good within the deadline set in the Storing Message, which was not 1 January 2013 but in 2013. In addition, work is under way on the ban on fossil fuel oil firing in households and at the baseload of other buildings in 2020. The agreement between the Department and Enova on the management of the funds of the Energy Fund is available on the Ministry's websites.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e942	I thank you for your answer. I also thank you for this going on in 2013. That's good, but it doesn't solve the problem I asked questions about, that with the system we now have, there's no incentive for municipalities to put their own funds at their disposal to support as individuals remove their oil fires. Oslo has such a system, and it's way better than Enova's system, so it'll also be more favorable for most people, and it works well, but we need to get the pace up in the removal of oil fires. So the way it is now, let's get rid of that. 250 a year, but we also need an interaction with Enova, just to make better use of the resources and get a faster phase-out. Then my question is: is the Council of State willing to look at possible solutions that can also create incentives for other municipalities to create their own support schemes for individuals in order to advance the phase-out of oil firing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e949	Of course, other municipalities are free to launch the support schemes they have to feel and afford at all times. My responsibility is to facilitate – and I have done so through the agreement with Enova – support schemes that enable us to get oil fires out, and to facilitate the objective of bans by 2020. Then I also have a responsibility for using the funds as efficiently as possible, and I believe that the starting point for this debate, namely that it should not be possible to impose different forms of public support on each other, is a good principle. It should be such that the aid granted is initially triggering. That is, it is the amount of money, the resource, that is needed to trigger the specific measure on which it is based. To the extent that municipalities come with complementary activity and other grant schemes, I take a positive view of it, but it should not be possible to shop around in the public agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e956	The problem now is that other municipalities have no reason to make their own arrangements, because it only makes them disappear. Oslo has it, and has a 30-year tradition and history to have that kind of support scheme and will continue to do so. I agree that aid schemes should not be placed on top of each other with the individual citizen who needs to remove his or her oil fire. But that should be possible. I also hope that – and I can ask for – the Council of State is willing to look at other ways of getting government and municipal funds to work together, so that we can get a job to remove oil fires, even if for the individual citizen who receives this support, it will be only one type of support, but that we can put them next to each other and get more weight in the phase-out that we need to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e961	Of course I have nothing against that. But then it will be that the support schemes that I am responsible for through Enova will be of a national nature and will apply to the whole country and its more than 420 municipalities. At that time, it will initially be the municipalities that have to adapt their instruments to the state and national instruments, so that they complement each other in a good way. So I think the starting point must be that now you look at what arrangements Enova comes with and presents in the near future, and then – in this case for the part of the Municipality of Oslo – you sit down and look at how the municipality's funds can be used as efficiently as possible to underpin the common goals, which are good, namely to get oil lighters out and convert them to other and more environmentally friendly energy carriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e970	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In a few cases a farm is used for criminal purposes and the owner is convicted for this. Could it be appropriate, on a general basis, to amend the concession law in relation to detected criminal offences that can be related to the farm?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e979	That's an interesting question. But does the representative Bredvold believe that the concession law should have a criminal sanction that affects criminal matters? See that the owner of a compulsory farm goes and grows hay plants on the barn. According to health law, it is criminal, and it is punishable by drug law. Should we have such legislation also in the concession law when we have it in the penal law? Or does Bredvold believe that the concession law should open the way to condition that the applicant should not commit any criminal activity on the property? And if you do something criminal on the property, are you going to lose the property? Traditionally, the Progress Party is opposed to the Concession Act and its provisions, and wants less regulation on the trading of agricultural property. The concession law has two main objectives: to maintain the obligation to operate and to live on the property. But when I hear the question from the representative Bredvold now, I can get the impression that you want to have more conditions in concession law, for example. that if a person owns a farm transfers drugs, he will lose the farm — that it will be part of the concession law. Does the Progress Party really think that we should add more conditions to concession law, or does it not? In this case, it is a major shift from the Progress Party that there has traditionally been a desire to liberalise property policy, one now wants to tighten up property policy, and so one wants, for example. that if a person does something criminally, it shall not only be affected by the criminal law, but shall also cause the person to lose the property he owns. As the Council of State, I disagree that we are going to add all kinds of conditions to the concession law. The main condition of the concession law is compulsory residence and compulsory employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e988	I actually thought it was me who was going to ask the Council of State questions and not the opposite, but I would like to answer questions from the Council of State. First, I would like to say that we have a concession law today, and it disagrees with the Progress Party, but as long as the law is there, we relate to it. We're going to do the best we can to change it after October 1st, to the harvest – so that's what they say. But it has to be a little special when you get a concession on a farm, maybe in competition with others, and then you don't meet the concession requirements that are set to get the farm, but you're doing a completely different kind of ‘industry’ on the farm. There must be a breach of the concession law. I find it strange that the Council of State will not at least be involved in looking at the possibilities of taking up criminal action. If someone, for example: smuggling, using a car and loading it full of things you are not allowed to enter the country, or taking in too much of it, it has become so that the car is a tool to do a criminal act, and it is withdrawn. Then it might be interesting for the Council of State to take a look at this with concession when the concession is not met.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e997	Before the President gives the floor to the Council of State, the President of the Council of State will state in all his kindness that the job of the Council of State is to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1000	Then the Council of State would also say that my job is to respond with political answers, and one of the political answers in this regard is precisely the discussion about the concession law and its purpose. There I am quite clear: the concession law has a purpose of living and operating obligations, not whether there are criminal offences in progress there. Then it's interesting in the political change of words that parties that are opponents of the concession law in general want to introduce new conditions. We do not want that, and we are clear about that. We believe that there are enough provisions in the concession law, and do not want to make the concession law more complicated than it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1005	I thank the Council of State for what he said. I repeat that as long as we have a law, the Progress Party relates to it, whether you disagree or not. We think it's a little strange that you get to keep a concession when you use what you've been granted, on the wrong basis. That is what I want to have a debate with the Council of State on. Whether to change the law or not, time will show, but I think it is strange that the Council of State so consistently will not think or dwindle – or what words we are now using – around it when a person or persons who are given a concession on a farm in competition with other active users use the farm for purposes other than what they have originally been given. It's entirely on a general basis I'm asking about this, even though I could have drawn up examples that the Council of State knows about. Then I find it strange that the Council of State will not use at least some of its time to think about whether in a few cases there may be an opportunity to look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1014	If the concession conditions are not met, the person with the concession will be deprived of it. The concession terms and conditions relate to accommodation: if you do not fulfil the obligation to live, you may be deprived of the concession. The concession is about compulsory employment: if you do not fulfil the obligation to operate, you may be deprived of the concession. But that's what this law rules. If the person who has a concession fulfils the obligation to live and operate, but is guilty in other circumstances that have nothing to do with the provisions of this law, such as: is affected by criminal law, has nothing to do with concessional matters. The concession case has something to do with living and working conditions, not any other criminal offences committed by the holder/holder. That is why I think it is neat and proper that the two terms of the concession law should be followed – i.e. the obligation to live and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1026	‘The Arctic Race of Norway bike ride applied to the Ministry of Culture for state subsidies last year but was refused. The bike ride will have a very positive impact on business and travel in the region, as it was for Rally Norway when they got a State guarantee of 23.5 million. Any OL in Norway will need a state guarantee of $10 billion. Does the Council see any possibility of meeting Arctic Race of Norway’s need for state support in the form of state guarantees, all the time Rally Norway received state guarantees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1033	I think I have to start with a quick clarification about the ‘state guarantee’ and ‘state guarantee’. A state guarantee, as the representative asks, means that the State undertakes to cover any deficit or loss, for example. in the case of a loss of income or an excess of costs. Such a guarantee may be an amount-limited or unlimited guarantee. A government bill, on the other hand, means that a concrete and fixed amount is released. It is an established practice that there is no appeal to championships and sports events in single sports. There is one exception to this practice. This applies to State involvement in the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games. When it comes to the Arctic Race of Norway, they applied to the Ministry of Culture for a 60-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-over. kr, divided into three years. It was also about a coup d'état when Rally Norway received a special award from the state budget for an event to arrange a candidate race in advance of the 2005 application to be approved as the event organiser by the World Cup in the rally. There were business policy assessments and not sports policy assessments on the basis of which the government favoured Rally Norway. A commitment to the 2006 candidate cycle was that the following World Cup rounds should be self-financing. It didn't turn out to be the case. Both the 2007 World Cup round and the 2009 round, which did not receive state support, went with significant losses in the million class. The Ministry of Culture has also later rejected applications for state subsidies from Rally Norway. Both the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have made thorough assessments of the Arctic Race of Norway. The county councils and municipalities have been granted credit for the project, as well as for the fact that Innovation Norway has supported the project. The Ministry of Culture has rejected the application. The Ministry of Culture's justification for the rejection is probably known to the representative, but I repeat it: there is established practice that there is no appeal from the games to the championship and sports event in single sports. It was both the Ski World Cup in Homenkollen and the World Championship in snowboarding at Tryvann, and it also applies to the international bike ride Tour of Norway and Tour de Fjords, both of which, according to the International Bike Association, are in the same category as the Arctic Race of Norway. I'm sure the Arctic Race of Norway is going to be a great event, but it has to be expected that it can be accomplished without government support – in line with similar sporting events. Playing media for sport are mainly distributed for the development and rehabilitation of sports facilities and for activities primarily for children and young people. There is a large backlog of gambling media for the construction and rehabilitation of sports facilities, and there is therefore no financial basis in the gambling media scheme to address a practice of state support for sports events. This principle is also clearly set out in the new report on sport, which is now being dealt with in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1052	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I have understood it, Rally Norway received a State guarantee of 23.5 million. kr which was a co-financing between several departments. If that doesn't lead to correctness, I think the Council of State should say it. The potential for Arctic Race of Norway is significant. One can only look at the cross-political support this event receives from the whole of the country. There is not one event that has received so much support from all the parties, and that is quite interesting. The rector of the marketing college has stated that this will have a commercial significance in the billions class. With that background: there is a term called ‘no rule without exception’. Will the Council of State be able to look at this with new eyes and compare it with Rally Norway and their state guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1061	It is true that a special addition of a total of 23.5 million was allowed. kr from the State budget of Rally Norway, which is named for organising this candidate race. There is also, as I said, a difference between subsidies and State guarantees. But the principle is still the same, that one is very reluctant to provide that kind of favor or state guarantee for events other than the Olympics and the paralympics. So I could understand the reference to Rally Norway even better if you could say that having given the special advantage of Rally Norway was a great and completely clear success. But when one knows that part of the premise for the special purpose was that the event was to be self-financing, and one sees that it was not the case, but that it was rather with a million losses, I thought it was imperative to conclude that it was a quite clear success. I believe that it in itself underlines the importance of holding on to the principle that a non-government grant or state guarantee for a single event within sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1068	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just record that it's referred to as a state guarantee, a separate grant. Then you can have a debate round it, that is not what I intend to do. My intention is to see this event with new eyes, see new opportunities. That's my background. I think it's a little wrong to compare with Rally Norway, which was the project it was, and got the result it got, when you look at everyone who's been with and supported them, verbally and not least financially. The county has gone through with funds. Municipalities have gone through with funds, and private business as well. So there's no one who finds anything negative about this trip. You can see the potential of this trip as you have the good partner, organisers of the Tour de France, and that you can broadcast it on television in the United States. It's inside the calendar of bike rides as the northernmost ride. I hope that the Council of State will make a new assessment if there is an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1079	The comparison with Rally Norway was made by the representative in the question, and that is why she was referred to from my side in the answer. Then I have great understanding of the strong commitment attached to the Arctic Race of Norway both from the representative here and – as he himself points out – from cross-political in North Norway. But the strong personal commitment doesn't change the sporting policy assessments that have to be made, and that we've done from our side, when the principle is that a mere offer or guarantee for events such as Olympic games or paralympic games.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1086	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-16.ana.ud1990e1099	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
