ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e46	The representatives Freddy de Ruiter and Morten Højlund, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. There is a permit application from the representative of Truls Wickholm for parental leave from 1 April to 21 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Lotte Grepp Knutsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave, from 2 April to 21 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e72	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e75	On behalf of the representative Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I would like to make a proposal on better health construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e80	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will put forward four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e83	On behalf of Knut Arild Hareide, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and the undersigned, I would like to propose a representative to raise the teacher's position in primary and secondary school. On behalf of the representatives of Line Henriette Hemdal, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on religion, life views and ethics. On behalf of the representatives of Steinar Reiten, Line Henriette Hemdal and the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for action to strengthen maritime education. On behalf of the representatives of Steinar Reiten, Øyvind Håbreek and the undersigned, I would also like to make a proposal for strengthening the engineering and civil engineering studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e94	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e97	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Harberg, Dagrun Eriksen, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal on the quality of studies in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e102	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e106	I am pleased to present a proposal by the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Kenneth Svendsen, Åge Starheim, Arne Sortevik, Bård Hoksrud and myself on an impact assessment of the coastal roads in Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e111	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e114	First, I would like to promote a representative proposal from the representatives of Line Henriette Hämdal, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and signed to strengthen the ethics work of the State pension fund abroad. Then I would like to promote a representative proposal from Knut Arild Hareide, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and signed to extend the local authorities' access to social considerations in the design of property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e121	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e124	On behalf of the representatives of Ingerd Schou, Lars Myraune, Torgeir Dahl, Frank Bakke-Jensen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on better conditions for agricultural co-operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e129	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e132	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Line Henriette Hemdal, Kjell Arvid Svendsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the provision of secondary school services to patients in health care institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e137	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward six proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e140	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I will present the following proposal for a representative: Proposals for a modern, safe and flexible working life – proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act, then proposals for a clear deadline for transition to five-year Master's degree-based primary school teacher education, then proposals for measures to promote real gender equality in Norway, proposals to establish a new national human rights institution, then proposals for common Norwegian land information and, finally, proposals for Norwegian natural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e147	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e150	In order for the Storting to have enough to do, I have at least two here, so if anyone can help with the third, I'll be happy for it. I have, on behalf of the representatives of Steinar Reiten, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and signed the pleasure of proposing measures to strengthen Norwegian industry. On behalf of the representatives of Hans Olav Syversen, Steinar Reiten, Knut Arild Hareide and the undersigned, I would like to propose a derogation from the tax on wealth on working capital. On behalf of the representatives of Knut Arild Hareide, Hans Olav Syversen, Dagrun Eriksen and I signed – it really shouldn't be promoted now, so I'll leave it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e162	We therefore put forward proposals for proposals, but the third was not tabled. We will move on to the representative, Mr Reiten, who will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e167	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Øyvind Håbreek, Dagrun Eriksen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to wind up the inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family business. On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Øyvind Håbreek, Line Henriette Hemdal and the undersigned, I would like to propose a proposal for measures to move more freight from land to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e174	Peter N. Myhre wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e177	I only have one representative proposal, and it is from the representatives of Siv Jensen, Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself on the financing of the exceedances of Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e182	All representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e201	I first want to start with some climate myths. The first is that saving the climate is so expensive. Not all climate measures are expensive. The elimination of subsidies is both profitable and effective. Reports from both the United Nations Environment Programme and the OECD conclude that the elimination of subsidies will lead to higher economic growth, as resources will be better used. The other myth is that climate problems are caused only by rich countries. Historically, this has been true, but the responsibility of poor countries is growing. In fact, non-OECD countries use the State budget most to sponsor global warming. Sickness about Obama's removal of subsidies also at home now applies to the top of subsidies such as Iran, Russia, China, Saudi Arabia, India, Venezuela and Indonesia. The third myth is that the political left has always been the best in the environment. With regard to the removal of subsidies, there is a lady who is actually far to the right of me, who was very effective in that area, namely Margaret Thatcher. As British Prime Minister, in the mid-1980s she took up the fight against State aid for unprofitable coal and against strike miners. She did not completely remove the coal subsidies, but she contributed to the British adding more to natural gas. The United Kingdom is now overcomplying with the Kyoto agreement. Thatcher's market liberalism and trade unionism actually proved to be a very effective climate policy. Climate change has sponsors. Global warming is sponsored by taxpayers, through fossil subsidies. In 2010, 37 countries spent 408 billion. dollar to subsidize fossil energy, according to the IEA. At the same time, renewable energy development and expansion were supported by 66 billion. dollar. In 2008, the G20 Group adopted a declaration to eliminate inefficient fossil energy subsidies in the medium term. Norway has participated in that work. The International Energy Agency concluded in a 2011 report that fossil energy subsidies are a barrier to the development of renewable energy and that we will be able to meet the climate challenges. The report concludes that there is a need for a revolution in renewable energy. The report says that clean energy is making great progress globally and can lead to growth of between 30 and 40 pst. annual. At the same time, fossil energy ignores the pure alternative sources. The IEA notes that the world now needs a revolution in clean energy in order to achieve its climate objectives and to avoid the serious impacts of climate change, with the need to double all renewable energy by 2020. What are these fossil subsidies? The largest proportion of subsidies is offered to consumers. Oil producing countries such as Iran, Qatar, Kyrgyzstan and Venezuela subsidise the consumption of petrol at a price that makes the price of petrol well below the price of fresh water. Subsidies for consumers in developing countries are disguised as poverty-reducing instruments. However, several of these subsidies are mainly directed towards the increased use of fossil fuels by the middle class. An example of this is 40 pst. of the diesel subsidies in Egypt goes to the richest of the country. Less than a tenth of these subsidies go to the 20 pst. Poorest in the country. They never reach the poor. Countries that have had unstable political conditions have in several cases been trapped in traps where the government has used parts of national GDP subsidies to remain in power, or leaders have abused their oil wealth and accumulated it in large personal fortunes. Most poor countries with significant mineral and oil deposits have the framework and the resource curse — e.g. countries such as Nigeria, which were forced to stop their subsidies from one day to another in order to avoid national bankruptcy. Indonesia is another example. Here's going to be 60 pst. of the fuel subsidized. The number of motorcycles is expected to grow from 42 million in 2007 to 60 million – that's one per. household – in 2010. Subsidies to fossil energy and electricity take 12 pst. by the State budget in the country. The government wants to cut it to 7 pst. in 2014 to reduce the budget deficit. The problem is that the proposal for more expensive fuels is at least as ‘popular’ in the world’s poorest countries as it is in Norway. At the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference, the rich countries pledged 100 billion to the poor countries. dollars in climate action each year until 2020. If international climate negotiations are to get somewhere, the money has to be put on the table. A cross of thought — to put it mildly — is that poor countries are already spending five times as much on creating climate problems as rich countries are required to help them solve them. Industrialised countries in the north provide massive subsidies for oil and gas production. Both ways of subsidising distort the real costs of fossil energy, because rich countries too need to clean up their subsidies. The poor countries receive subsidies to consumers, while we subsidise producers and production, for example: through favourable tax arrangements to promote investment. It is estimated that rich countries will subsidize by over 100 billion. dollars per year – more than we have promised the poor countries in climate support by 2020. Despite this special treatment of fossil energy and renewable energy, renewable energy is on the way to becoming evenly priced and has actually become cheaper than fossil energy in countries such as the United States. India, the United States and China – and that's interesting enough. Also in the remote part of West Africa, there has been very high dependence on diesel and kerosene. Consider what would happen if the fossil subsidies had been phased out. I'll give you an example of the order of magnitude. If all subsidies aimed at fossil energy consumption had been eliminated, global CO2 emissions would fall by 6.9 pst., according to the IEA. This corresponds to the total emissions from France, Germany, Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom. But there are some points of light, but there are some promising signs of phasing out these subsidies. In Obama's 2013 budget proposal, there was a commitment to cut fossil fuel subsidies within ten years, and it is proposed to cut about 4 billion. dollars in 2013 in tax subsidies for the production of oil, gas and coal. In Norway, the Global Subsidies Initiative claims that we sponsored our oil and gas production by 25.5 billion. kr in 2009. It is clear that we are still facing an overview of oil subsidies also in several oil producing countries, and that it is good that we have openness around it. Norwegian oil industry vacuums Norway for engineers of all kinds, and we see a major challenge in the two-part economy, which we often discuss in this room. We can do a thought experiment. What if the state went into the REC and guaranteed for 78 pst. of development costs? It is the reality of the Norwegian petroleum industry that the State pays 78 pst. of the search costs of small companies in deficit to ensure more search operators on Norwegian pedestal. This allows us to start fresh each year and forget about the costs of last year. The Norwegian petroleum industry has been assessed by the World Trade Organisation with a definition as being strongly subsidised. The report reveals nine subsidy schemes, four of which are tax-related and many others are very large. In addition, we see that there are a number of other fossil support schemes within our system, both in terms of CO2 exemptions, NOx and base charges and our tax-free schemes, which are a four-million-dollar subsidising the operation of aircraft and ferry. The use of coke and coal for energy and process purposes is supported by approximately 900 million. kr in our system. We have the allocation of free allowances in the quota system, and several ministries have support schemes such as: cargo allowances for meat, eggs, cereals, power-feed and compensation for various fuel worms – or we have the commuter deduction, to mention it at last. What all these subsidies have in common is that they have in themselves good and good purposes. The left supports more of them. The problem is that the individual objectives trump the fact that these subsidies increase greenhouse gas emissions. So that's why, since Stoltenberg at his press conference before Christmas spoke extensively about removing fossil subsidies: in the international climate negotiations, there are countries that have to agree on agreements. This means that CO2 emissions will no longer be free, but they must have a price. So what will the Council of State do to make the Norwegian State budget more in line with Norwegian ambitions to eliminate fossil subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e239	It is nice that the representative, Mrs. Skei Grande, addresses this question. It is an important issue, and it is a matter that will mean a great deal to what the future will look like, and whether a global one will be able to arrive at an international wide climate agreement combined with the achievement of good opportunities to finance the implementation of active climate action. That is why I share the concern of the representative Trine Skei Grande for the extent of fossil energy subsidies internationally. Subsidies to fossil energy, as the representative said, have great economic consequences. The subsidies give wrong price signals to fossil energy producers and consumers, burden public budgets and, as the representative also pointed out, have unfortunate distribution effects. Subsidies to fossil fuels are, in fact, the same as a negative carbon price and contribute to increased greenhouse gas emissions. The representative, Skei Grande, shows, among other things: for calculations carried out by the International Energy Agency (IEA). These suggest that some countries have very high fossil energy subsidies and that subsidies have increased in recent years due to rising energy prices. Many oil and gas producing countries are high on this list. At the same time, the IEA also expresses that the amount of energy subsidies would be even higher without reform efforts in several countries. In 2009, the G20 committed itself to phase out harmful subsidies to fossil energy in the medium term. Several countries have joined this target after 2009. Norway also supports this work. Subsidies for fossil energy are not obvious. There are different approaches to what is considered to be aid. For example, IEA and OECD use different methods in their calculations. The IEA calculates the subsidy as the price difference between fossil energy traded on the domestic market and the world market price. Such a price gap can be considered a negative fossil energy charge, i.e. the opposite of our fossil fuel taxes and emission allowances prices. In Norway, we have no subsidies that directly lead to lower prices of fossil fuels. On the contrary, prices are significantly higher than the world market price. This is because we have CO2 taxes on emissions, user charges on fuel and a greenhouse gas allowance system. Norway was one of the first countries in the world to introduce a CO2 tax in 1991. The CO2 tax has contributed to lower emissions from the activity on the socket and to a significant reduction in the use of heating fuel oil. The fee concession has been extended for several rounds. A CO2 tax on the use of gas was introduced in 2010 and by this year at the latest the CO2 tax was extended to include fishing and fishing in close waters. In addition, Norway is part of the European system of trading greenhouse gas allowances. From 2013 onwards, the EU ETS has been extended to include, inter alia: emissions from the aluminium and ferro-alloy industries. So it's over 80 pst. of the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions subject to fees or greenhouse gas allowances. The OECD has recently presented a report providing an overview of subsidies for the production and consumption of fossil energy in OECD countries. In the calculations, the OECD has taken into account economic benefits resulting from exemptions or reductions in fees for certain fossil energy uses. This method gives some kind of unobtrusive results. For example, a country such as Norway, with high overall fossil energy taxes but at reduced rates for a few users or products, will come out with more right-wing support than a country with a generally low level of charges. This applies even if the low rates in Norway are above the overall level of charges in other countries. Therefore, as the OECD notes, subsidies between countries cannot be compared with this method. The same objection to comparisons also applies to the list I presented in my written reply to the representative Borghild Tenden about direct and indirect support for fossil energy. Many of the estimates for indirect aid are due to exemptions or reliefs from climate and environmental taxes. In my answer, I therefore underlined that there is a significant difference between the tax costs included in the overview and what is generally understood as subsidies for fossil energy. As the representative Skei Grande refers to in his interpellation, the Global Subsidies Initiative, in cooperation with Econ Pöyry, published a report on subsidies for oil and gas production in Norway a year ago. According to the report, the main subsidy elements are linked to the exploration cost scheme and rapid depreciation of oil taxes. The extraction of oil and gas yields a higher profit than is usual in other industries, a so-called rent on land. There is a broad political consensus in Norway that this rent belongs to the community. In order to secure the community a large part of the rent on land, we therefore have a special tax on the extraction of 50 pst. This means that the total marginal tax on profits on the capital business is 78 p.m., while the normal corporation tax is 28 p.m. In my view, it is not right that exploration cost schemes are State aid. The lightening merger results in companies that do not yet have profits being able to benefit from the tax credit for exploration costs at the same time as profit-making companies. It does not reduce the overall tax burden on oil companies over time and is therefore not a subsidy. The Lightening Fusion Facility thus contributes to the equalisation of new and established companies on a Norwegian base and thus to the promotion of competition between companies to search and extract oil on a Norwegian base. The report also points to the benefit of rapid depreciation. It's true that fast depreciation in isolation is an advantage for the companies. However, GIS and Econ Pöyry also calculate tax advantages for so-called SAD investments. Its activities are not taxable but are, in fact, part of the tax system on the base. The report from GIS and Econ Pöyry therefore overestimates, in my view, the tax advantage of rapid depreciation. The representative Skei Grande asks what we will do to ensure that the Norwegian State budget is consistent with Norway's ambitions to eliminate fossil energy subsidies. Although the Norwegian oil tax system is not perfect, I would argue that we have succeeded in attracting a large part of the rent on the base, without preventing profitable projects from being carried out. There is broad consensus in the Storting on both the way we conduct oil policy and the way in which the oil tax system is designed. An important part of the activity of the Storting also contributes to the distribution of the large revenues received by the State from the oil business. I would also like to point out the high CO2 tax we have on emissions from the petroleum activity at the top of the quota obligation. Norwegian consumers also face high prices of fossil fuels due to CO2 taxes, fuel user charges and the greenhouse gas allowance system. One also sees the voltage in the discussions in the hall here. I have had the pleasure of participating in debates on Document 8 proposals that have been about the exact opposite, i.e. the price of fuel, the price of petrol, compared to other countries. It is a fact that Norway has high prices of, for example: fuel for car. One important reason for this is, among other things: The CO2 tax and the user charge. Overall, I therefore believe that the State budget is in line with our ambitions to eliminate subsidies on fossil energy. It will also be an important consideration for the government to take with it when designing the State budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e305	I thank the Council of State for the answer; sail if there was a slightly different tone than the tone I heard from the Prime Minister when he was going to have the big review. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that it is good that we in Norway do not have subsidies on consumption, and I used quite good arguments to show that it is not very targeted. I don't think we should compare ourselves to the regimes that use that kind of subsidies. It is not targeted for both climate, social and other reasons, and it also raises the issue of Norwegian oil saving the world from poverty – and that is wrong. Governments spend a lot of time saying this is hard to calculate, and there are an incredible number of different ways to evaluate it. Yes, of course it is. Our point is that we have a Prime Minister who has said that we should remove the subsidies, and then we have to go into the subsidies that we actually have. The support we give, and the subsidization we have of the companies in the sector, it's not possible to get away from it. Especially the search function is so strongly subsidized that I don't think the Council of State can get away from it. That's a whole The investment of the petroleum sector is written by six years — it is not normal lifetime. I don't really think the Council of State responded to what the government wants to do to remove these subsidies, as the Prime Minister thought it was important to use his semi-annual press conference to say that he should remove them. Is it just that you have to learn how to do this properly, so that we don't have to do anything, or is it actually a real desire to remove the subsidies we have in Norway today? We have a lot of subsidies, and some of them have a big impact on the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e319	It is right to say that the perfectly ideal system for both taxation and the lack of subsidies is hardly possible, because it will always be possible, both in terms of taxes and different arrangements on the expenditure side of the State budget, to take different policy considerations into account. But I would like to stress what I said in my answer, that the ambition we have to actively use the state budget to remove subsidies on fossil energy is an important guideline for the way we work with the state budget. Let me therefore use a few words to explain the investment deductions in the oil tax. In 2000, a sample presented an assessment of the oil tax. The sample pointed to reductions in the interest rate deduction, equality between new actors outside the tax position and convergence of the investment deductions. With regard to the recommendations made by the sample on reductions in interest rate deductions and the equalisation of new actors, changes in the oil tax were introduced with effect from the year of income 2002. It was also mentioned in the same proposition as the legislative proposals that the oil tax system was not neutral since the investment-based deductions were higher. However, proposals for tightening up were not made because priority was given to changes in the interest rate deduction and to stimulating the diversity of companies on a Norwegian base. The investment deduction consists of both depreciation, interest rebates and free income. Depreciation and interest are deducted from the ordinary tax base and the special tax base. The exemption is only included in the calculation of the special tax. This principle also underlies both the so-called shareholder model for the taxation of the share income of personal shareholders and the rent tax on hydroelectric power plants. A risk-free interest rate is also used when calculating the value of the tax deductions. In the oil tax, the value of the investment deductions is higher and may give incentives to high capital use in projects and greater willingness to take investment risks. But most of the expansion projects on the base are very profitable, and I don't know any examples of companies promoting development plans that are socio-economically unprofitable. Projects that are highly profitable will pay higher taxes than projects that are taxed at standard country taxes. Oil resources are the property of the community. The values shall benefit the entire community. The extraction of resources is based on competent and good oil companies making decisions that are in the best interests of society. We are then dependent on both good industry framework conditions and on a well-functioning tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e330	I would also like to start by saying thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important topic, because it does the interpellant. This is a major and growing theme in global climate negotiations. It is an increasingly high-level issue on the agenda, and that is good. When I started following these global climate negotiations for a few years ago, this was hardly a topic. Now there is something most countries are discussing. A very important effort has been made to finance climate adaptation measures and greenhouse gas reduction measures, where Norway has had a very leading role, a role that I believe deserves a lot of praise. But it is also a quite obvious paradox that there is a huge amount of global subsidisation on a very different scale from what we can mobilise for climate action. Too little has been done. At the same time, I respect the fact that removing subsidies that are perceived as important poverty measures in many countries is difficult, that it takes time. This is why the G20 initiative is important, and it is obvious that Norway is taking part in this work. I still think that the entrance to this interpellation is a bit strange because the price of fossil energy in Norway is much higher than what it does on the world market. We have a long history in the international context of praising CO2. We were first out with a high CO2 tax on the base, so there are no subsidies that reduce the price of fossil energy in Norway. I'm not going to go into the different ways of calculating subsidies – the finance minister explained it – but I think it's a little weird to do it without including pricing CO2 or counting on it based on exemptions or reliefs from taxes. But the reason why I take the floor is that there are several things that are politically interesting in the Left's approach. There has been a broad consensus for a long time on the basic interest rate charge on the base. There has been a broad consensus about the very high marginal tax that we have on the base, on the profits of the activity that happens there. That is the result of a political attitude, a political attitude to the fact that the resources that are pumped up from the Norwegian base are resources belonging to the people – the surplus should largely fall to us. This is mirrored, inter alia, by: of the cost-reimbursement scheme, which is also a broad-based scheme, inter alia: because it contributes to the promotion of plurality on the plurality of the plurality of the plurality. I personally believe – and I am absolutely sure that the Left agrees – that it is a good thing that it is not just Statoil operating on a Norwegian base. It is difficult to argue that this is a subsidy, as long as it does not result in oil companies paying less taxes over time, and so it does not. It is always possible – and always important – to discuss devices, adjustments and improvements, but the basic principle of high marginal tax combined with the light-refusion system is in many ways at the heart of the petroleum tax system. If it is that the interpellant believes that this way of setting up the petroleum tax system is subsidising, I would like to challenge her on what she thinks the petroleum tax system should look like. Does the Left believe that the search for fusion scheme should be removed? In that case, are we going to keep the high marginal tax we have, or aren't we going to? It would be very valuable for the debate and very enlightening in many ways to hear both the Left and the other bourgeois parties with which the Left wants to join the government, say something about this. Because it's easy to point to challenges, but it's unclear what the answer is. Is it that we can expect a strong conversion of the basic principles of petroleum taxation in the event of a change of government? In that case, it is such a big and important topic that I believe it would be valuable to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e354	Let me first thank the representative Skei Grande for focusing attention on an important topic. The world needs more energy, and we need to use the energy we have in a more efficient way. In 1950 we were 2.5 billion people on earth, now we are 7 billion people. More and more people need to share more and more scarce resources. If we are to succeed in both combating poverty and solving the climate challenge, we need to produce cleaner energy at a fairer cost, with less environmental impact. Today, much of the energy needs are met by coal, gas and oil. On average, two new coal plants are being built in India and China every week. 80 pst. greenhouse gas emissions worldwide come from the combustion of oil, gas and coal. If we're going to solve this challenge, we have to address the main problem, that it's too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly. Subsidies to fossil energy dramatically reinforce this market failure on a global basis. Ideally, we solve this through an international price mechanism such as a global greenhouse gas levy, or an international quota system and a gradual phasing-out of fossil subsidies. Unfortunately, the international climate negotiations provide little reason for short-term optimism. At the same time, we see that several states are now following in the footsteps of the EU and establishing quota markets, such as. California and Mexico. China shall set up tests on allowance markets in five regions and has also decided to introduce a new CO2 tax. As the interpellant has been involved, many countries have joined the goal of phasing out fossil subsidies. In Norway, half of the emissions are subject to the EU ETS. It is true that many allowances are allocated free of charge, but Norway must have the same conditions as other European countries. In addition, we have had CO2 tax on the Norwegian base since the beginning of the 1990s. We also have a high CO2 tax on petrol, diesel and mineral oil and large tax advantages for environmentally friendly vehicles. Norway is thus one of the world’s most advanced countries in correcting the market failure by maintaining the polluter-pays principle. It is positive, and the fee conversion in favour of environmentally friendly cars must continue. The public sector also has a special responsibility to go ahead, set environmental standards in public procurement and phase out fossil energy use for heating and transport. Here we see that many municipalities are in charge, but the government is doing very little. On the right, there is also a lack of a support scheme for phasing out fossil oil firing, which the Stortinget has decided to introduce from 2013, but which the government has still not implemented. Despite the fact that Norway can improve, we have come further than most in setting a price for emissions. In many developing countries, the situation is quite different. Gasoline, diesel, fuel oil and gas are strongly subsidised directly to the consumer. At the same time, clean, renewable energy sources are very expensive. This imbalance makes it demanding to change the energy balance in an environmentally friendly direction. We have to recognize why it's like this. Deep poverty makes it difficult to make changes without affecting those at the bottom of the ladder. Although the subsidies in absolute numbers, which the interpellant had in mind, favor the richest most, they mean most, relatively, to the poor. Norway’s commitment to building more renewable energy in developing countries, e.g. through SN Power, is essential for the generation of more renewable energy on commercial terms. The industrialisation of solar photovoltaic production in the last three years has made solar power competitive now without subsidies in many parts of the world, and when we gradually succeed in exploiting the efficiency of solar cells better than today's 17 p.m., the competitiveness of solar power will be significantly strengthened. The growth of competitive environmentally friendly energy sources will make it possible to gradually phase out subsidies to fossil energy sources without unduly affecting developing countries. As the interpellant points out, Norway also has a target of phasing out fossil subsidies. I think we have to admit that it's easier said than done, not least because most of what you can call fossil energy subsidies in Norway are indirect subsidies, and many of them find their counterpart in a high CO2 tax or quota obligation. The representative Marthinsen wondered what the other bourgeois parties thought about the petroleum tax system. I think we can say that there is a broad consensus on that in this room. But the burden of proof is not on the opposition either, because it is the Prime Minister who has been out saying that Norway should phase out fossil subsidies. The Minister of Finance has basically not responded to what it really means, and it could be interesting if the Minister of Finance could respond to what one has in concrete terms intended to do to phase out what one considers to be actually subsidies to fossil energy. I do not include the petroleum tax system in that category. There is no doubt that Norway has a high potential for green tax exchange, but the major challenge of fossil subsidisation is global above all. We must support and help developing countries to phase out fossil subsidies, among others. by providing more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e394	I would also like to stress that it is an important topic that the interpellant addresses, and on which it is important to keep a constant focus, subsidising fossil fuels internationally, but also focus on ourselves: what is the impact of our own overall fiscal policy and of the state budget as such? Interpellant asks: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Norwegian State budget is in line with Norway’s ambitions to remove fossil subsidies? This refers to the Ministry of Finance's list. There I want to look at another issue that is also relevant to the debate, and of which it is important to bear in mind the consequences. It is that that list does show, however, that the majority of the budget appropriations that can raise this issue are appropriations for public transport in the districts. There are appropriations for national road ferries, there are appropriations through the municipal budget, for quick-boat operations in the districts, there are appropriations for the purchase of air routes on the short-haul network, and there are appropriations for the purchase of services by Hurtigruta. It is therefore important infrastructure in this country that we discuss when discussing fossil fuels and subsidising them. It is clear that it must be an entirely un topical problem to cut these appropriations, and even reduce them significantly. The consequences of this would be so great, it would be so hard throughout the country, and I am convinced that there will also be bad environmental policies. That is what needs to be discussed in this context. The right policy must be to stimulate the conversion of machinery and the operation of these ferries, boats and air traffic, in order to obtain fast boats and ferries that emit less CO2 than they do today. The government has contributed to this. We're about to launch a battery-powered ferry over the Sognefjord, the first in the world, we've got a gas ferry over the Westfjord, which is also an important environmental measure, and we've come a long way in developing better machinery and the operation of the speedboats, which are also positive for the environment. So it is to facilitate the development of environmental technologies that is right, not to focus on reducing the appropriations for the purchase of services. The strong reconversion of fuel taxes by the government has also helped to reduce climate emissions from car traffic – 26 pst. reduction of emissions from new cars since 2007. Norway has become the world’s best electric vehicle because we have granted large tax exemptions and benefits for zero-emission vehicles. So the policy is going in the right direction – it is important to underline and include in this debate. SV will increase air-conditioning charges. It is the basis of our policy. Contaminants have to pay. But as I have said, in the real world, this must be done gradually by using a combination of whip and carrots, so that we do not put down important transportation offers in the districts or flag out powerful industries to countries without environmental requirements. It is our way of going, and not as the interpellant announced in his speeches in the debate when she referred to Margaret Thatcher and the United Kingdom in the 1980s and the crushing trade unions and laying down jobs to a large extent. I was a little unsure if the interpellant thought this was an example we should look at from the Norwegian side. In that case, there's an interesting reflection on the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e408	Nature is the basis of all life and activity. The man-made climate change is one of the main challenges of today's political reality when we know the boundless nature of global action to meet these challenges. Compare with other crises such as: the financial crisis is a cause for great concern. The inter-pellant must therefore have the honour to raise the issue of whether our charging policy actually works in relation to our agreed climate objectives. Trine Skei Grande refers to the Left's question to the Minister of Finance on this matter earlier, and I see from the Stortinget's report that the Minister of Finance in both 2011 and 2012 has done well for direct and indirect subsidisation of fossil energy in Norway. Then we have an area where we have a good start on energy conversion. Several and several gas ferries are examples of this. This battery-powered ferry at Sognefjord, which is soon to be started, is also a good example of us trying out new areas. Conversion of car charges is one of the areas where we have really been closed by twisting consumer behaviour in the right direction. We buy fuel-friendly cars because it pays off, and we choose electric cars to a greater extent than other Europeans because it follows benefits from it through the ability to run in collective fields and by dropping tolls. The car tax policy shows that people are well climate-friendly solutions when we make a positive effort to do so. We must continue to convert in the same direction by strengthening the environmental elements of car charges. Soon, the national transport plan for the next ten years will be submitted. We have already received some signals about important elements of the plan. There's going to be an offensive intercity bet, free of charge E39, a strong bet on urban packages for public transport. Some would argue that rail and public transport are good steps in an environmentally friendly direction, while road in the West is not. Many in the country spend precious time in ferries or on more or less executable roads. I hope the interpellant doesn't belong to those who see bets on better visibility as negative environmental policies. We're not becoming a more environmentally friendly society by preventing the development of business and construction across the country. Increased moving currents do not turn out positive in the climate accounting. Some claim that on-road bets and holiday-resolution projects are environmentally hostile policies. It's going to be a lot less accounting to get such an answer. Good roads, safe roads and the shortening of distances make transport more efficient even in the case of pollution. In many parts of our long-distance country, rail and other collective solutions are not an alternative. The centre party thinks that we should continue with the effort for energy conversion from dependence on fossil fuels to renewables. The government has provided a good basis for increasing renewable production. The scheme of green certificates has given us a new boost in the commitment to clean renewable energy production. The centre party will also continue to use fees as an instrument to stimulate climate-friendly development. But we want to make use of the whole country. If we do, and if we want to secure Norwegian food production, we must also avoid a charging policy that leads to liquidation rather than stimulating energy conversion. I hope that the interpellant agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e429	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for an important interpellant. It is also important because it recalls some of the dilemmas of climate policy. Often there are things that can be easy to talk out about, but it may be difficult when you come down to the specific issues, although I agree with the interpellant that if there is anything you can do about, it is the kind of subsidies that she was into. We all agree that we should have an international climate agreement, we agree that a price of CO2, we agree to improve quota systems. Unfortunately, it looks dark, and it just shows that we have to do things nationally, and we have to do things international where we can, at least to get something done with the different areas and sectors with which it is possible to do something without the agreement being in place. I believe that the question of fossil energy subsidies is an issue that is important to travel. As the interpellant was involved, reducing CO2 emissions globally could be 6.9 pst. It shows the need to reduce them and preferably remove them. The interesting thing, as the interpellant also pointed out, is that it is an important initiative from the G20 countries, and I believe that the G20 countries have an additional responsibility to lead, and especially Norway. But then it's the poorest countries that sponsor the most, and it's actually a little understandable as well. What's interesting is that the debate that's going on in the poor countries about cutting various subsidies, especially to consumers, is equally tough, we know that. The challenge is only: if they are subsidies – cheap petrol or cheap fuel oil etc. – making us unable to obtain renewable energy is life-threatening. Therefore, it is crucial that an international initiative and agreement be able to produce new technologies that we can give them, or at least can be a driver to ensure that fossil energy subsidies do not take longer to phase in new renewable energy. Although we know that it's like this today, it's at least important that you have that focus on the future. So it's important to work internationally, but it's so important to work nationally. This week there was a matter in today's business that I think shows a little of the paradox. Government councillor Borten Moe announced that there would be no new support schemes for building renewable energy, i.e. sea windmills. There should be no new subsidies, even if the developers say they don't think it's profitable, and therefore development will not happen. But we also know that the agreement on green certificates has made much of the expansion of renewable energy that we hope would come to Norway seems to end in Sweden instead. It also shows that at least there is a need to look at the aid schemes, subsidies, renewable energy. But the same state council doesn't seem to be very worried when you see the Yme scandal, where the state has to pung out with maybe as much as 8, maybe 10, maybe 12 billion. kr. There are actually indirect subsidies for fossil energy, but in terms of generating new renewable energy projects, there is no great will. There are some other points that I also think are interesting. This applies, for example: The gas power plants we have, Mongstad and Kårstø, which are not so much in operation. We warned against that already in 2000, some of the parties here, but now they're built. But if you look at the CO2 tax on these power plants, it is 25 kroner per tonne of CO2 emissions, compared to e.g. 231 kroner per tonne on Snow White. I know that there are differences between these types of power plants, but it also shows that there is a difference in the CO2 tax, and it could be appropriate to regulate it. The same applies also when considering the free emission allowances that the petroleum activity receives, or CO2 taxes on fuel, where, for example: on diesel is more than 100 kr lower than petrol per tonne of CO2. It also shows that there is a potential for making charges even better. Subsidies are not necessarily involved in this sense, but it is at least important to address the different charges and regulate them so that there are charges that ensure that the most environmentally friendly solutions are chosen. I think this is a very important interpellation and hope that the Minister of Finance will also include the national questions and continue to work to change the tax system and ensure that it pays to choose green and costs more to pollute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e472	Like everyone else, I also think this is an important interpellation. I believe it is because it is extremely important to get attention to the fact that renewable energy worldwide is currently profitable, but it is struggling with subsidised fossil energy. We want a climate policy that works, of course, when it comes to reducing emissions, but which should also be linked to poverty reduction. It is clearly right that we, as a rich country, have to go ahead – not least in order to have good arguments in the fight to reach an international agreement. The world's poor people need energy, but coal, oil and gas are not part of that solution. On the contrary – IEA, the International Energy Agency, believes that 70 pst. the energy of the world's poor countries should and will come from renewable energy. That means that we're turning today's consumption on our heads, and that only 20-30 pst. will come from fossil energy. It should, in my opinion, be of importance when discussing oil and gas extraction in Norway, where many people almost make it as if we are producing oil and gas to help the world's poor in their fight against distress and for energy. This is the question of whether the tax system and the depreciation rules for oil and gas should be regarded as subsidising, perhaps in a way a little less interesting discussion. The important thing is at least that the depreciation rules drive investments in weather conditions. This leads to a two-part economy in Norway that weakens other industrial activities, creating a pressure on the economy, such as: make investments in environmentally friendly transport, such as rail, more expensive than it needs to be. The idea behind the depreciation and tax regime for the petroleum sector is that the revenues are large and safe, sail if it takes time before they arrive. We can now ask questions about this, because it will depend on the use and demand of oil and gas in the future. We must not have a system that promotes investments that are only profitable and that will provide community money, if oil and gas demand becomes so high that we are moving towards a temperature increase that is far higher than the two-degree target. Then we're subsidising a climate crisis, and it's possible to discuss whether we're getting into such a situation. Therefore, in the opinion of the SV, we should now review the depreciation rules for the petroleum sector in order to see whether they comply with the targets for the reduction in fossil energy use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e483	Interpellation is the way we have to raise a topic debate in Stortinget, and the reason why I promoted this interpellation was the Prime Minister's desire to cut off the subsidisation of fossil fuels in Norway. Then I think it might be a little strange that the representative Martinsen walks into my throat and asks, "What do you want to do?" My open question was: what was the Prime Minister's point when he said he would do it? When I then ask the Minister of Finance how he will do it and what the Minister of Finance will do, I get a ten-minute introduction that this is difficult to calculate. Yes, there are probably a lot of different methods to use, and the Minister of Finance has a very high finance department to make those models, but it was the Prime Minister who made an initiative, where he said he wanted to cut, and I still didn't understand what the Prime Minister thinks he should cut in. The representative of Egeland now made a post from SV, but I want to comment on the first post from SV, which I think was a lot on the page if you think it's Hurtigruta you're talking about when you're talking about fossil subsidies in Norway. Then you haven't understood what the challenge is, and it kind of scared me that you think that's what the focus is. In the Financial Newspaper a little before Christmas, calculations showed that oil projects in Norway had to cover up to 104pst. of their costs through the depreciation regulations we have. Then I think it's time that the Storting might have a discussion if it's right to do it. It may be right to do so when we have large returns on the projects, but when we start moving to less profitable projects and more and more marginal projects, we can discuss whether it is economically and financially profitable for Norway that we have such a kind of subsidisation of the investments when we start moving on the margins. This is a discussion that we must keep alive. The left will also raise this further, because we need to have a discussion about investment, funding and how we are to achieve targeted, both with our climate policy and with a sensible economic policy on our socket, so that we get the right investments and priorities in the future as well. For the third time, I would like to repeat my question: what was the Prime Minister's intention to cut when he thought it was important to cut off the subsidisation of fossil energy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e496	As I said in my previous post, the tax system in general and to the extent that the oil tax system in particular is not perfect. This is a question that the Stortinget has discussed earlier, and I also believe that it is important to discuss, in the context of the tax and tax procedures presented by the government in the State budget and, to some extent, the establishment of both the tax system and the charging system in order to achieve important objectives, such as: in the case of climate and climate reduction. That's my general answer to the question asked by the representative Skei Grande. It is important to bring with it some other pillars that have also been put in place in relation to climate work: the broad consensus in the Stortinge on the road further in terms of climate change and work on climate, based on the similarities in the Stortinge. There is no doubt that the main objective is to reduce climate emissions, both in Norway and internationally. This means that you have to keep working on reducing subsidies and not least getting a more accurate pricing of carbon internationally. There's basically a lot of the key here will be in the future climate work. We see – and I think that was well illustrated by the contribution to Geir-Ketil Hansen – that there are some dilemmas to be faced, because it is often so that the policy should serve different purposes. On the one hand, there is a tax system, on the other hand, there is district policy and on the other hand, which is an important part of the policy. So there are some dilemmas and choices we are facing, precisely because politics has to serve more purposes. So, as I said, it's important that we use the tax and tax system to influence and change the behavior. An example of this is what the representative Astrup referred to – the conversion of car charges. The combination of CO2 taxes and the conversion of car charges has given a much more environmentally friendly car park in Norway in recent years. It's kind of a conversion that we want to keep going. The last thing that others have been faced with is using technology development, stimulating new environmentally friendly technologies is also important. Then the policy must ideally be based on the polluter-pays principle. It's pretty central. It is what is called cost-effective tools for designing both tax and tax systems to influence behaviour in the climate and the environment. It is an important debate. Thank you for the debate, for saying so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e514	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e530	The main challenges of Norwegian media policy today are linked to the transition to a digital platform. Today’s media policy tool is designed for a completely different time from ours and is in many ways a regulation in overtime. The main elements of the instrument are the production grant and the zero VAT rate. The production grant was granted to compensate for paragraph 1. The error of the 2 newspapers. Today there are not so many numbers. 2 newspapers again, but the production grant continues to help keep important editorials alive, perhaps quite especially for the newspapers we call nationwide opinionable, such as our Country and Nations, the Class Fight and the Morning Newspaper. The zero VAT rate must be seen in a longer historical perspective in the development of European democracies. Having free, critical media is a necessary, not to say integrated, part of our democratic model. In many countries, this has been a topic of important historical crossroads. Today, the need for a critical press is a well-defined principle which is also firmly anchored in the Norwegian legislation. Fees, taxes and government postal tariffs have been the means by which democratic governments have been able to hit the media. English fees per year the page on English newspapers was part of the back cover when the Norwegian VAT exemption was adopted in the mid-1960s. Favorable VAT rules are a neutral instrument that lubricates all newspaper houses, unlike the production grant, which is granted on the basis of a set of criteria for given newspapers that would otherwise not be economically viable. In other words, VAT as an instrument is not an addictive instrument in relation to the State in the same way that the production grant is. As the media minister in the Question Time of 13 March this year stated that the government does not intend to continue the system at a favourable VAT rate for digitally disseminated editorial services, such as web newspapers, etc., this is both a breach of a long historical line and a step in the wrong direction with regard to media dependence on the state. Here the government is building down a neutral instrument, namely VAT, while strengthening a direct State grant scheme that increases media dependence on the State. For the media houses, however, it is probably not on the principle that these questions are most sensitive right now. Today, this is about what framework conditions we, as politicians, are contributing to a very demanding media conversion process. Today, it is a fact that very few media houses have income of importance from their editorial online products. The revenues are still in the paperpaper, while the online newspaper has so far been free of charge for the reader and a cost for the media house. There may be some advertising revenue in the online version, but also in the advertising market, the newspapers are challenged on the web by websites without editorial content. The readers speak their distinct language. Increasingly fewer readers read papers, while more and more people use editorial services on the Internet, telephone, iPad or whatever it may be. The paper newspaper is far from dead, but the writing on the wall is still clear to read. In the future, if we are to be able to finance independent editorials commercially, that is to say, as far as possible regardless of state support, we need to obtain revenue from the digital services. These revenues must be sufficient to cover what is needed to ensure journalistic and competent editorial skills, in order to identify key qualities of Norwegian publishing traditions. All over the Western world, therefore, there is now work to put in place payment mechanisms for editorial content online. This is a demanding process because readers expect this to be available free of charge. That the media houses at the introduction of this, in addition to introducing the payment, will also add 25 pst. VAT at the top, obviously makes work harder and the transition to the digital platform much more difficult. A regular newspaper subscription may cost NOK 2,500. Although a net subscription or making available the network service is cheaper, we're talking about hundreds of dollars per person. reader. On the part of the opposition, it is also natural to note that such an important issue as what we are now discussing has never been discussed in the Stortinget on the basis of any concrete case by the government. When the Slagholm Committee was set up – and at the whole time when it was working – the government referred to the work, and it was like in the cards that we were going to get a case in which the whole transformations of the instrument for the media in order to upgrade it to a digital business were to be submitted to the Stortinget. This matter never came. In this case, the government has not exercised much policy, rather inaction. The media industry, which has rightly waited for what framework conditions it should have to deal with, is, of course, very impatient. I'd say, they'd deserve better. There's a lot of questions hanging in the air here. Firstly, there is reason to ask whether the government believes it is good policy to operate at different VAT rates – especially during the transition period we are in. If the answer is yes – I will of course discuss with the media minister what this means for the conversion of the production grant. But I also hope that the Minister of Finance has some comments about this here today – it is a bit demanding to deal with two different government councils in something that ultimately is the same question. If the answer is no, namely that it would be desirable to establish a policy equal to a low rate of VAT, but that this is difficult to achieve, it would be of interest to know what these difficulties are, so that we can discuss them. There may be demarcation issues, or there may be EU rules, as the media minister has indicated on a number of occasions. If there are EU rules, there is a significant need to clarify where the dog is buried. What possible pathways through the EU system has the government assessed, and what initiatives have been taken towards EU bodies? In the absence of media policy issues from the government where this could have been explained, I hope the Minister of Finance can now give a more complete answer than the Minister of Media has been given in the Question Time on 13 March. It would also be of value if the Minister of Finance could give an assessment of the possibilities he sees towards the EU. What issues should be addressed, and what policy processes might be involved in trying to find ways through the EU structure? The issues we are facing are also relevant in Belgium. There you have raised the question of the equal low rate of VAT for so-called e-news – i.e. the PDF format. The starting point is, of course, much wider than that, but one thing – let me say – limited will be important to clarify in Norway, because many district newspapers are struggling with postal tariffs and are largely dependent on maintaining contact with readers who no longer live in the municipalities where the paper is published. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Finance's answers. I hope we can have a debate on the question of whether this is of a political nature, or whether this is related to more practical and formal issues, and that in extending it, we can try to get a little further in this debate, which is about crucial framework conditions for the conversion of Norwegian media. It is also about the framework conditions for the further development of Norwegian democracy, based on the desire, the need and the requirement that we should, of course, have a good, critical journalism and not least competent editorials in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e568	I agree with the interpellant that this is a rather demanding debate, in the sense that it concerns more general charging issues, and it is also – in the middle of this matter – a not insignificant dose of media policy here, which is not the finance minister's special area, in addition to having a general understanding of what it is about. VAT is a general consumption charge which will initially cover all goods and services. This year, it's about 230 billion. kr in the treasury. Ideally, VAT should have only one purpose, and that is to provide the state with income. That's the ideal, but we're not there. As we had in the previous interpellation debate, it is that, on the one hand, you can cultivate the ideal tax system, and then you have to use other means to achieve a particular political purpose or purpose/objective. The ideal system isn't there today, and it's probably hard to reach. This means having special low-rate schemes, exemption from VAT, which reduces the income of the country and provides higher administrative costs for both industry and the charging authorities. So it's always so that when someone has got a low rate, others will have a low rate. There is a political pressure towards getting the low rate, but at the same time retaining the possibility of deducting full VAT. This is a little bit of the complexity of the VAT system. The exemption we have today from printing has existed since VAT came in 1970. The reason why, for example: The papers were exempted from the general turnover tax, which VAT replaced in its time. Today, the term ‘subsidies’, which we discussed in the previous interpellation, can be used in another way: the value of the VAT exemption for newspapers is estimated at about 1.8 billion. kr in 2013. The media support committee has looked at the issue – it was divided into the middle of the issue of VAT for media. At this point, the sample has not given any clear direction for how to follow up this further. However, the sample agreed on one point, and it concerned the issue of introducing a so-called platform neutral production aid scheme, so that there are not only paper publications on which the production grant is based. The government has followed up, and the Ministry of Culture has had a new so-called platform neutral production grant at the hearing, so the process is underway. The sample was as mentioned in the view of the question of VAT on newspapers. Part of the sample proposed to maintain the zero rate for paper newspapers and introduce a new reduced VAT on news in electronic form. The second part proposed to abolish the zero rate for newspapers and include both newspapers and electronic media in the 8 pst rate that we have in the VAT system. It is also this proposal — which was later called the redistribution option — that has been endorsed by the National Media Association. This shows that the matter is complex. It's different visions. At the same time, there is an important issue, on which the interpellant was involved, because it is about how we will be able to have a variety of newspapers and new media in the future, such as newspapers and others using the Internet. So the sample also said that the introduction of a new, low rate of digital, editorial services would create new demarcation problems for digital media related to how to define news, topicality and societal debate. At the same time, it was also pointed out that it would be difficult to distinguish between eligible content and actors providing pure entertainment and other information which do not require support through reduced rates. I agree, as it is clear from what I said at the outset, that it would be difficult to define such a new, low VAT rate for some electronic services. It is also the case, as the interpellant asks, that EU legislation does not allow a reduction in the rate of such services. It applies to the placing on the market of both e-books and electronic newspapers. Norway has also introduced a VAT on international electronic services offered to Norwegian consumers. It is the foreign actor who pays the levy. A low rate of news and topicality in electronic form must be distinguished from other full-rate electronic services. For example, a subscription to a television channel or a magazine from abroad must be assessed against such a restriction. The introduction of such a new, low rate of some electronic services will also make the regulation of foreign actors more complicated, and thus – I believe – reduce the possibility of complying with VAT legislation. So there are also difficult questions in that context. The re-allocation options of the Media Support Committee also proposed a new framework grant scheme on the expenditure side of the State budget as a more targeted option to maintain the exemption for paper newspapers. Any new aid scheme on the expenditure side must be designed in line with the EEA Agreement and approved in ESA. This is why it is important – when the representative Thommes asks whether it is right that EU rules put a stop to changes in the VAT system, where appropriate what is needed for such approval. As I said instead, the VAT Directive does not allow the introduction of a reduced rate of electronic services. It also applies to electronic newspapers. In this context, it can be mentioned that the European Commission has recently filed against France and Luxembourg for introducing such a reduced rate of VAT on digital books, of 7 pst, respectively. and 3 pst. The Commission considers this to be contrary to the Directive, while, as they say, it is seriously distorting competition. The VAT Directive is not directly binding on Norway. However, tax exemptions and reduced rates may be considered as public aid prohibited by the EEA Agreement. When assessing whether the aid is still to be authorised, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, will look at the regulatory environment in the EU. If the EU does not allow reduced rates on electronic newspapers, this would mean that Norway, as the only country in the EEA area, would have lower rates of such services. Therefore, there is considerable uncertainty about the EEA Agreement both with regard to the possible introduction of a new VAT for electronic news and with regard to the design of a support system for the press. What is happening now is that the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will contact ESA to discuss the space for action on the future design of media support. Against this background, we do not intend to change the VAT code for paper newspapers and electronic newspapers. We have chosen to invest in the instrument we consider to be the most targeted and effective, namely the production grant. We have increased the financial framework for this year, and the scheme is to be made so-called platform neutral. I believe that this is an important step towards renewing the press policy and ensuring that newspapers can maintain their important democratic role in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e604	I believe that the substance of the interest in this contribution by the Minister of Finance is linked to the fact that the Ministry of Culture is now going to take an initiative with the EU bodies to assess the scope of action. There is, of course, a question of whether this is at all covered by EU legislation. The starting point, as the Minister of Finance said, is that the EEA Agreement puts us in a separate position. There is no reason not to take advantage of the space it gives us, even if it means that we became the only country in Europe at a similar, low rate of VAT. I think that this discussion will be slightly different for books and newspapers, respectively. The newspapers are part of the democratic system and have a long history, including in the European context. Today, at least 15 countries have lower VAT rates for newspapers on that very background, and I think that will be an important part of the debate we will have in the future. The Minister of Finance raised the question of demarcation problems. Well, in the analogue world, we're perfectly capable of having support arrangements for newspapers and, for example, for newspapers. restricted to weekly or other services not viewed as part of the central editorial area. Substantial efforts have also been made by the National Media Association to propose how such limits can be set. I think it's quite possible to do if the will is there. It's not certain that the digital world is so different from the analogue. So it was about Proveny. It is always important for a finance minister. I'm glad. The thing is that so far this has been free services. This means that the state has not had any further revenue from this, and that means that if you are able to implement arrangements today, it is not so difficult to find that money, simply because they have not yet come in. So this is something that's urgent. On the day that this represents a significant income for the treasury, I'll tip the matter off. I could imagine hearing if the Minister of Finance thinks it's a problem to develop a system like the production grant, which is about newspapers that don't make money, unlike a system where we should perhaps add up to the fact that the media houses made money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e617	It is, of course, a characteristic of development that it is moving forward — some people in some cases feel that it is not moving forward, but in the field of VAT it has. When VAT came in 1970, there was a VAT on it that could call more traditional products, i.e. bread, milk, etc. One had probably not thought about, and it was not included either, VAT on services, for example, which came 30 years later, i.e. early in the 2000s. Over the last ten years, the world has also changed. Electronic platforms have been given much greater space, and new challenges also arise for the VAT system. It is clear that in the field of taxation, as in other areas, I think it is not only in the interest of the Minister of Finance, but in the whole of the Grand Duchy, that we are able to take care of both the tax base and the tax base in order to obtain income into the community. It is clear that the tax base in this area is being challenged by the network and new cross-border electronic services. Therefore, there is no reason to wonder that this is also a matter of high interest in the EU. And we built on what happened in the EU, when we came up with the rules that applied to books, which I referred to in my post. In order to build a little on the relationship with the EU: in 2011, the European Commission sent a proposal for the modernisation of the regulatory framework to be consulted. The report pointed out that current rates could discriminate against comparable services, such as paper newspapers and electronic services. Changes in the EU VAT system require unanimity among 27 countries. It will therefore be difficult to adopt changes to the EU VAT system, so it is unlikely that in the short term the EU will allow reduced rates on e-news, e-books or other digital products. And as I said in my post, a case has already been brought against Luxembourg and France on that basis. I can also point out, as I said in my post, that someone is now in contact with the EU to discuss the scope of action for the production grant. I have been informed by the Ministry of Culture that they are in contact with ESA regarding the conversion of the production grant, which is to be notified during the spring. This contact does not concern VAT in particular, but the production grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e628	Thank you, Mr Thommess, for addressing this topic. It's an important theme for Avis-Norway. We've discussed it before in this room and will probably discuss it in the future. It seems to me that it's a small opening, and that you see an opportunity to change this. This is about the tax on news and social debate, it is about our language, and it is about the need to take care of our democracy. A newspaper that is distributed electronically is an electronic version, and that it is an electronic version, means that the paper has been transferred to a digital format, so that the paper can be read on PC, tablet and mobile. There is currently a full VAT rate for newspapers that are distributed electronically – as has been said before – while the sale of printed newspapers is zero. It is crooked and makes it difficult for the newspaper houses to develop the future newspaper. We have to admit that it's a growth of the Internet, and a lot of people think it's come to be. The fact that newspapers can also be distributed electronically means that printing costs are avoided, and physical distribution costs are avoided — while the public can easily access newspapers they want to read. It's important. What is also important here is that there is an environmental perspective by not printing, not distributing, and, not least, making the newspaper available to readers. There is therefore no doubt that newspapers distributed electronically are a good additional offer to the audience. And it's not just an additional offer, it's even the only offer for many. If you want to read the entire paperpaper, small and large, you can now buy the digital paper on the Internet, as a PDF file. Many newspapers also offer that you can buy previous versions of the newspaper in the same place – a good offer, which many people use. They can go back to previous versions and read them electronically. On its side, newspapers are given the opportunity to develop a quality-proof digital production line for the content of the paper, to build common platforms for a common distribution of the content and to ensure that the publisher has control of rights and pricing also in electronic form. Non-discrimination between paper newspapers and electronic newspapers is therefore important. The State should promote non-discrimination on the charging side in the field of news and societal debate. Only paper newspapers have zero rates – newspapers distributed electronically have full VAT rates. It's crooked. The development of electronically distributed newspapers takes place quickly — something happens every day. Today’s charging system prevents Norwegian newspapers from making good solutions and launching new measures to facilitate distribution. By giving the newspapers a zero rate when they're distributed electronically, you're going to make it much easier. The media companies have said – as the Minister of Finance also pointed out – that they do not need a zero rate, but at least they want equal treatment. It will stimulate the development of future newspaper products and contribute to the development of new business models for the newspapers. Current legislation, VAT law, exempts VAT «printed newspapers published regularly by at least one number on a weekly basis». It's old-fashioned for me. This has been the state since the late 1960s, when one had no idea or knew what would come in the future. I understand that, but at least you should change this today. The reasons for this exemption are well on the way to the language and the cultural policy discussion that we had at the time, but this is true even today. We're a small language community, and we have to take care of that. This is, to me, a cultural policy issue and not a charge question. The Progress Party wants to build the country for the future and not look back. Then we have to focus on the individual and not on the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e649	I don't think we can escape the fact that this is both a media policy issue and a tax policy issue. The silver drive of the economy now is actually the production of digital content in some form. A tax exemption for the whole of the emerging economy is important for the financing of the welfare country. We want to support Norwegian language, Norwegian news media, Norwegian debate – because it is important for democracy – and Norwegian culture. We believe that this is important because we are a small language community and a small news society. SV also shares the objective of promoting digital development – this is important because it is environmentally friendly. And at least it's going to be the most platform neutral possible. I believe it is important – as the Minister of Finance pointed out – to obtain platform neutral production support. It has the advantage that it is focused on what we want to promote. We also share the desire for a equal but lower rate of VAT. I think that Thommessen underestimates the demarcation problems when he says that we'll fix it enough, because we've done it within the analogue world. I think this is going to be a lot more difficult in the digital world, where it's just about convergence in the media – that I can buy access to a newspaper service online that at the same time provides access to a television channel that transmits news, to a film channel, to a music location. Then we obviously have demarcation problems. We have to look a little bit further forward, so that we don't introduce a new unfairness, for example. to support the dissemination of a PDF version of a paper sheet, which would be very unfair to those newspapers that do not produce a paper version.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e658	The majority exemption for paper newspapers is the main part of the press release. Supported VGs through zero VAT represent much more per job set in newspapers than most other cultural workers – or, for that matter, farmers – can dream about when it comes to so-called subsidies. That's how we've given a good life to a lack of pressure in this country. Half the Media Support Committee and a collection of Avis Norway, through the National Media Association, want to convert the VAT exemption, so that it becomes platform neutral. They want culture moms for both printed and digitally produced newspapers. We are now introducing a platform-neutral conversion of production support to the newspapers. That's the general agreement. Then we probably have to recognise that it is not just to go on with the corresponding solution for VAT on the newspapers, although much speaks for it. I understand that media companies believe that a conversion to an equal and low VAT rate for content, whether it is distributed on paper or digitally, will not be contrary to the EEA Agreement. The Minister of Finance has today stated that his department, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, will discuss the space for action in this field with ESA. That's good. We need a clarification, so that the debate is informed and happens on the basis of what we have to stick to. It's national meeting time in the parties. I assume that the media policy and the press support – and in connection with it also the VAT system – are on the agenda of the programme debate in most places. In the Center Party, I see that there are different proposals. The Programme Committee wants to continue today's zero-VAT system on paper newspapers, but there are also proposals on platform neutral, low VAT. I can't predict what the outcome is. Media support is crucial because we have a differentiated pressure across the country. We know rapid changes are taking place, where paper newspapers are getting increasing competition from digitally distributed newspapers. Two conditions make these developments go fast. News - seeking young people are watered down online. They'll be much less subscribers to paper newspapers than my generation. The distribution costs for paper newspapers are also a factor that will contribute to rapid changes. The centre part's hold is that the level of media support must be maintained at layers. However, we should all be open to look at how we will use the press support to ensure that the objective of maintaining a differentiated press through national and local viewers, no. 2 newspapers regionally and the smaller, meaningful national newspapers. The debate on how we use the combined press support to achieve these goals is far more important than the debate on zero VAT on paper newspapers versus platform-neutral cultural VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e675	I would first like to thank the interpellant for producing an important interpellant. Then I would like to point out that I very much disagree with the last remark from the pulpit that it is the press support that is the important thing. I think we are facing very big changes in the media world and in how media and journalism are disseminated. Thinking that it's the press support as one and alone is crucial to how that development is going to be, I think it's almost a little daunting given the technology we're facing. Many courageous decisions have been taken in this Chamber, both in the Norwegian and Norwegian languages and in the development of Norwegian democracy and public debate. We are among the most news-reading people in the world, we have had great support and support for our democratic system, and we have had a great deal of public debate that has shaped many of the important areas of society we have dealt with in this room. This has happened because courageous decisions have been made here on both language and journalism. Now we are facing a huge change in the entire media world; how to have a public debate, how journalism is disseminated and how investigative journalism is being worked on. It is really a bit depressing to see that the policy is on the side of that debate and does not want to be a precursor in terms of how that development actually should be. I cannot predict what the programme of the Left will end with, but I note that a unanimous government in the Left has set the programme to have a fixed, low VAT that is neutral in this context. I think we need to look at how we also stimulate quality journalism through the existing support schemes. I think it's incredibly passive of a finance department just to stand aside from the debate and not want to make any premises for it. I understand that a financial bureaucrat's job is to get as much money as possible – it's actually a job I assume they do – but the politicians' job is sometimes to make some brave decisions because something is actually important to our democracy. The public debate – our media situation – is an important premise for an open, functioning democracy. I think that the public debate and quality journalism are going to be hard-pressed in the new everyday life we're in media, and then we have to do some brave steps to meet it. I think it can happen through a good dialogue with those who actually represent the quality journalism we want to stimulate in the future. When they have wanted to be part of e.g. to decide where these boundaries are going, I think it is going to happen in dialogue with the environments that will be able to develop the same as I had hoped this room wanted, namely a quality, good public debate, good journalism and media that is developing our democracy. They will always be changing. Some of them will die, some new ones will grow up. It is through living democracy that we are also able to hold a lively debate – so thank you to the interpellant. I'm a little disappointed that in the government you don't have a more offensive attitude, and that someone actually goes around and thinks that it's the press support alone that's going to save this in the future, because it's not going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e690	I have to say it was a little disappointing that the action room the government was going to investigate, just the action room for a changed production grant. I cannot interpret it differently than that it means that the government has not intended to take concrete action with a view to trying out the handling room regarding the charge question. It would have been possible to apply for notification in ESA about this. There would have been no legal concessions in itself, but there would have been clear premises on how to deal with such a low rate of VAT in the future, and the possibilities of substitution would have been stopped on that occasion. I note that the government did not want to do this later, nor would one go further with the tax question and ask questions about how to look at this in relation to, for example, the tax question. sectoral or legal cultural aid. That's a shame, and that means that the real reason why the government doesn't go into this is reasons that belong at home. It could be about the basis of charges, that is, a limit to what we're talking about. Nor can I say that I have noticed that you have been interested in going into it, and that means that you stand back from reducing this to become a question about the production grant. This is a very defensive starting point. The production grant is a scheme granted to enterprises that do not make enough money to operate their own editorial work. It is a grant scheme that prevents the companies that receive it from paying dividends. This means that there are companies with a difficult starting point in terms of access to capital. It also means a twist from a neutral instrument — VAT — to an addictive type of instrument. It is fundamentally objectionable, and it is particularly worrying because it does not recognise the need and importance of having profitable media companies as the basis for a critical, impactful and high-quality press. I'm sorry to say that, but I think this was pretty bad news.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e699	Of course, the Minister of Finance should be concerned with taxes and revenues for the community, but it does not prevent – as I said before – the Minister of Finance from being concerned with important things, such as language as meaning our identity, dialect as meaning to roots, the possibility of having a connection through the meaning of the language for us, and, to some extent, discussing different ways of caring for and developing the Norwegian language. There is always a balance when assessing whether to use a general instrument such as: lower VAT rates, or a more direct instrument, such as: production aid is. Here there are different opinions in this room, but I think it is now important to pursue the path that the Ministry of Culture is doing in designing the new policy in this area. With regard to VAT rates and whether it is possible to obtain an impact for a reduced rate on e-news, in order to use it in concrete terms, I will not rule out ESA being able to approve it, but, as I said in my post, it will mean that Norway will be the only country in the EEA area that has reduced the rate on e-news – with the challenges it brings. This question is part of the further discussion, but in this round one has, of course, put in the support for production in order to be notified this very thing. I would like to go back to that with general instruments, as far as the representative Meltveit Kleppa was concerned too: exemption from VAT not only presents delimitation challenges, but it also provides the most support for media companies with the highest turnover and less support for smaller publications. It can be interpreted in several ways, but it can also appear to be a little targeted tool in terms of diversity and quality, and that is also something we need to include in this discussion. In order to transmit this to electronic newspapers, it will also, in the same way as for printed newspapers, be a little targeted tool. For this is a general cross-cutting instrument, which is not corrected, for example. against diversity and quality, as I have just mentioned. This is an important debate. The Minister of Finance will deal with the charging system, but I am sure that the Minister of Culture alone and in consultation with the Minister of Finance is also able to deal with this issue that has been raised by the interpellant today, so it is probably not the last time this is discussed in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e713	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e729	As stated in the interpellation, the Nordic Council has long discussed the challenges and development of Nordic transport infrastructure, and the matter also concerns many others. In my time in the Transport and Communications Committee and in the Nordic Council, I have received many enquiries from local politicians, businesses, associations and individuals involved in cross-border passenger and freight transport. It is also about linking countries in a larger common labour market, which in turn can give the whole of the Nordic region a competitive advantage. In this picture, many people want a Nordic transport plan. This applies in particular to those who live in or engage in business activities in border regions. It is a problem that national plans stop at borders. Or in another way: Norway has good plans for Norway, but when you look at the map, Sweden is completely white. And the same goes for the other way: there are nice plans in Sweden, but if we look at the map, Norway is in white. We in the Transport Committee have just been travelling to Sweden and Denmark, and in many of our meetings this was a topic. Not long ago, we had visits by politicians from Jämtland who were concerned with upgrading the Meråkerbahn and faster connection between Østersund and Trondheim, and we are well acquainted with the cooperation between Jämtland and the Trondheims to develop that region. The same applies to cooperation between Eastfold and Värmland on the road and the path for the development of that region, and it is particularly gratifying that we have today's visits by Swedish parliamentarians who are particularly concerned about this and who follow our debate. I would also like to mention my own region and the cooperation between Hedmark and Värmland. First to the train and the route Oslo–Stockholm over Karlstad: a few years ago you could drive this route on approx. Four and a half hours. Today it takes beyond six. This is something we should do something about. For example, a crossing track on Kongswingerban will be an important contribution. It would also solve many of the challenges of freight traffic, especially in the case of timber. Such cross-rail could reduce the transport of timber along the roads by 30 pst. We have also heard a lot about the ‘Scandinavia Cross’, where the transport route through Kongsvinger from Stockholm, Gothenburg and beyond to Trondheim and Oslo is important. I have mentioned the railway, but the road E16, formerly rv. 2, is also part of this. This route is already the second most trafficked border route between Norway and Sweden. Only Svinesund has more traffic. There is also a large-scale expansion in this border area, which will lead to additional loads on this road network. In addition, large parts of Värmland 273 000 inhabitants have Gardermoen as their nearest main aerodrome. It is now being built from Kongsvinger to Slomarka, and it is very important that we do not now get a stop in this expansion, but that the three miles left between Oslo and Kongsvinger are being built. Trysil and Sælen have a good and close cooperation in developing the tourism industry and are occupied by an airport. Länger Nord is the main focus on transport in connection with the entire North Region bet. An example is the ore transport between Skibotn and Tromsø. Ofot is also important, especially for the northernmost parts of Scandinavia. It has a high potential as a raw material supplier to the European market. The track goes from Narvik and eastwards to Kiruna and northwards towards and inwards in Finland. However, the path should also be assessed by reference to the north-east passage, and for that reason it may also be relevant to Icelandic and Greenlandic interests. That's why it was a good news when last week the government told me that from the Norwegian side, 1.6 billion will be invested. kr for the extension and construction of crossing tracks and measures to increase the capacity of the track power supply. It means an increase from 18 to 27 trains in each direction. In addition, it is good that the Ministry of Transport has initiated cooperation with the Swedish authorities to further develop this path in the long term. The Nordic Association has been involved in the Nordic infrastructure issue. They focus on what is called the ‘8 million city’, i.e. the Oslo–Gøteborg–København section. They want a high-speed train to run the distance of two and a half hours. The examples I have mentioned show the importance of this matter and not least the broad commitment. In the Nordic region, we also have common interests in both airspace and maritime transport, which many believe – rightly so – we should have exploited much better. We all agree that good transport corridors are important, not only between the Nordic countries, but also beyond Europe. In this way, there would have been an advantage to a common plan in relation to the major and important transport years, and I hope one day we will get there. In order to achieve this, I think it is necessary to restore the Nordic Transport Council which unfortunately was laid down a few years ago. I am aware of the fact that we have more cooperation venues, such as: the Nordic-Baltic transport cooperation, which is a useful forum for the exchange of information, but it is informal and non-binding. But we have something to support, for example: Helsinki Agreement, where we can read: ‘The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to consolidate the cooperation previously initiated in the field of transport and shall seek to develop this cooperation in order to facilitate links and trade between countries and to achieve appropriate solutions to the problems which may arise in this area. The construction of transport links affecting the territory of two or more Contracting Parties shall be carried out in consultation between the parties concerned. The Contracting Parties shall coordinate their efforts to improve road safety.’;» Another important step towards a plan is the unanimous decisions taken at the Nordic Council in its session in Helsinki last November, where the governments of the Nordic countries were invited to: to develop a common Nordic strategy for the development and investment of transport infrastructure at sea and in countries of common Nordic interest to develop a common plan for improving the links between the most populous parts of the Nordic region, an area in which approx. Two thirds of the 25 million inhabitants of the Nordic region live and work, i.e. Oslo–Stockholm, Oslo–Gøteborg–Malmø–København and surrounding areas, and the link Helsingborg–Helsingør to develop a common plan for the development and operation of the railway in the northernmost part of Scandinavia from Narvik and eastwards to Kiruna, and northwards towards and inwards to explore different possibilities for the development and funding of the proposed projects involving the countries concerned as partners Furthermore, the Nordic Council of Ministers was invited to: to entrust relevant Nordic institutions with the task of developing a long-term joint Nordic investment in transport research and innovation. It is these decisions that are my main reason for this interpellation, and I would therefore like to explain in more detail the reasons given by the Nordic Council in this matter. Transport has a fundamental role to play in long-term and sustainable economic growth, competitiveness and employment in the Nordic region. The establishment of transport policy has implications for regional development, greenhouse gas emissions and the environment. Although the Nordic countries do not have formal cooperation on transport policy, it would be beneficial to bring together common Nordic views into one strategy, a strategy to enable the respective countries to find a common platform, coordinate views in the broader European dialogue and improve the conditions for funding. It shall not duplicate or discourage other cooperation on transport within the Northern Dimension, the EU and border regional organisations, but it shall aim to facilitate the design of its national transport plans by each country to take greater account of cross-border connections. Infrastructure investments that contribute to reducing the negative impact of transport sectors on the environment and reducing greenhouse gas emissions should be the focus. The decision on a joint Nordic transport-relevant research search for efficient, safe and climate-friendly solutions to the Nordic transport challenges is also important. In particular, this applies to new energy technologies under Nordic conditions, and to solutions such as: problems of need, as many of the major Norwegian cities are struggling with. With regard to funding, the Council considered that it needs to be addressed from a Nordic perspective and should seek to find common solutions where possible; This was mainly the Nordic Council debated in November, but there are many more transport issues that are being addressed and discussed with us at all times in the Nordic context, in the national context and in meetings between countries, and I have given some examples of this. I look forward to the response of the Council of State and to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e811	As the representative Sønsterud refers to in the interpellation, it is important to increase cooperation in order to improve transport links with our Nordic neighbouring countries. They are our main trading partners, and we experience closeness in many ways, both linguistically, culturally, geographically and economically. The representative is quite right when she shows that the development of cross-border transport in the Nordic region has increased. Integrated labour market, increased commuting, increased travel activity and international trade in general have led to strong growth in cross-border transport, both for passenger travel and for goods. In this context, let me also mention that we often tend to think north-south, as we often do when it comes to transport policy in Norway and perhaps also in other countries. In this context, however, transport work to the east-west is not least very important. The Nordic Council has recommended that Nordic governments make overall plans for the development of transport infrastructure of common Nordic interest, as well as plans for the development of transport links in southern and northern Scandinavia. A formal response to the Nordic Council is being prepared by the Swedish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, in dialogue with the other Nordic governments. A letter of reply will be completed by the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs. This letter will express the views of the Nordic Governments on the request from the Nordic Council. It is likely that there will be a reference to which arenas exist for Nordic cooperation in the transport sector today, and to what kind of questions are addressed in them. However, it is also important to explain what is being done in the current situation regarding concrete cross-border links. It is also an important conclusion that existing cooperation venues need to be further developed, and perhaps it is more important than re-establishing structures or establishing new ones. Concrete initiatives should be followed up both bilaterally and in a more multilateral perspective. I agree that there is a need to develop transport infrastructure between neighbouring countries. I think that's an important prerequisite for facilitating future value creation. The government has received input from the transport modes both in terms of the future transport needs of central industries that are cross-border and in terms of the need to develop the infrastructure, perhaps especially in the northern areas of the Scandinavian peninsula. I also know that similar investigations have been carried out in Sweden and Finland. It has given us a lot of useful knowledge, but that knowledge is so deeply anchored in each of the Nordic countries. We know that transport does not stop at borders, and therefore there is a need for more initiatives to develop Nordic cooperation solutions. Norway has therefore taken the initiative to develop a common Barents transport plan to present the transport challenges, the need for transport links and the implementation of transport investments – both in road, rail, sea and air transport in the northern regions. This document has not been created before, so it is the first time it is being prepared. We hope that it can respond to the need for an overall approach to the transport sector, at least in the north, and that it can also provide a long-term framework for the work on transport challenges in this area. An expert group chaired by Norway shall have a proposal for such a common transport plan clearly in September this year, and the plan shall then be presented at a meeting with the transport ministers from all the four barn countries in September in Narvik. So it's a first step in that direction, the thinking that the Nordic Council has also expressed here. Another point on which the Nordic Council has been concerned relates to the development of links between the capitals of Scandinavia, which, of course, have close contact and a good cooperation on some specific projects. The main follow-up to the Norwegian side is through the national transport plan and through the annual budgets. Projects in the national transport plan are part of transport corridors, where all modes of transport are treated together, both road, rail, air and sea. The international transport corridors are increasingly important both for exports and imports, and the national transport corridors need to be increasingly seen in the context of international transport. So far, the government has made a number of improvements both on the road network and on the railway. The main road link from Norway to the European continent is E6 over Svinesund. On the Norwegian side, the development of the motorway standard has been completed, while some work remains on the Swedish side. However, in the summer of 2012, the formal decisions were also taken for the remaining Parcel in Bohuslän, and in the summer of 2015 this Parcel is to be opened up to traffic. National Transport Plan 2014-2023, which will soon be submitted, will also contain concrete measures that will improve road and rail links in the ‘Nordic Triangle’, i.e. between Oslo, Stockholm and Copenhagen. Railway Keywords include: the large project Follobanen and the development of double tracks on the Eastfold Railway. On the road network there are important actions related to the E18 and E16 in the direction of Stockholm. In addition, the upgrade of E105 to Russia and the E8 Finnish border comes to Tromsø. In NTP 2014-2023, the government will also come back with detailed proposals for the development and upgrade of Ofotbanen, as well as the relationship to further work on Trønderbanen and Meråkerbanen. There are a number of cooperation areas in the field of transport that are being used very actively to develop cross-border links in the Nordic region and in Northern Europe. Nordic-Baltic cooperation emerged as a natural consequence of the closure of the Nordic Transport Council in 2005. The Nordic and Baltic Transport Ministers meet regularly to discuss issues of common interest within the so-called NB8 framework. This cooperation is very useful for Norway, both to follow and to influence the work on transport issues in the EU. I would like to highlight in particular the work on TEN-T – the trans-European transport network. In this context, the Nordic and Baltic countries promoted a joint declaration to the European Commission in the autumn of 2010 with views on the design of the future core network in the area. This is a concrete example of an important initiative of strategic importance for the development of transport infrastructure, which was then agreed between the Nordic and Baltic countries. I also want to mention the Northern Dimension Transport and Logistics Partnership, where Norway, together with ten other countries, has defined a network of transport links and established a funding mechanism for studies and analyses related to that transport network. It is based on and is an extension of the TEN-T network. Norway is actively involved in that partnership and has, among other things, funded a study on methods of financing cross-border infrastructure projects. This work shall also provide a basis for mutual learning and cooperation. The study will be completed during 2013. Norway also participates in the Baltic Sea Council, which includes, inter alia: has developed a broad study as a technical basis for strategic long-term planning. The main purpose of Baltic Transport Outlook, which was completed in December 2011, was to make the whole region more accessible and competitive. Then I also want to mention Nordic cooperation on transport research, because it has good historical roots. Nordic countries face many similar challenges in terms of knowledge development in the field of transport. Cooperation in this area is important in order to strengthen efforts in common but also in each country. Much of the cooperation takes place under the direction of transport modes, which have extensive and close cooperation in research and development. We want to build on the positive experience we have had in Nordic research cooperation in the field of transport, and will also see how this can be followed up with the Research Council. The Nordic countries are at the heart of a larger network involving Baltic Sea cooperation, Nordic cooperation, Barents cooperation and Arctic cooperation. We can and will do more of the cooperation in the years ahead. There is broad agreement to continue cooperation between the Nordic countries on transport policy issues and to take care of the good network and the good cooperation established. At the bottom of Nordic government cooperation in the transport sector is the objective of promoting efficient, competitive, safe and environmentally friendly transport across borders. Some questions are best addressed bilaterally and directly, some issues concern several countries, and then it is important to take them multilaterally. It is also important to make use of the cooperative areas already established, sail if I do not overlook the fact that in the years to come we can also develop new arenas. I believe that the common barent's transport plan, which is under preparation, is an example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e843	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and of course I'm glad that there's a lot of positive happening in this area. But I also look forward to the answer that is now being prepared for the Nordic Council, and I hope that it will be positive with regard to the decisions taken by the Council, namely a common Nordic transport strategy that is somewhat more binding than what we have seen now. Then I am aware of all the cooperation venues that exist today. We're doing great, we're doing a lot of good, and we're getting a lot of good solutions. But as I said in my post, what you want is an overall strategy. It shall not duplicate or discourage other cooperation on transport within the northern dimension, the EU and, for example: border regional organisations. However, the Nordic Council believes that it is time to create a more coherent and more committed plan to describe the large, important transport corridors between the Nordic countries and out to the continent. I myself was the case rapporteur for this matter in the Nordic Council, and I know how much work is behind it. The approach was promoted from two samples, from the Environment Committee, or Committee, as it is called, and from the Nutrition Committee. There were many meetings, conversations and compromises, because there were many who would like to have their way or their path concretely incorporated into the decision – we know that from the work on transport in this country too. But for Nordic parliamentarians, it was important to do some priorities, and to focus on the most important thing. That's what I explained in my main post. But it's great that today's cooperation is good and is developing in a positive direction, and that you get good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e854	I understand the representative's wish that we should be able to bring together some of the initiatives that exist, and also look at the possibility of making a more general plan. I do not want to reject it, but at the same time I think it is important that someone, as the representative also stresses, does not overlap or create new arenas to crowd out already functioning arenas. I want to mention an example of an arena that is now under development, which I think works well, and which must be allowed to continue working. It is that one from Norway and Sweden has commissioned the Swedish Railway Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency to look at capacity-enhancing measures on Ofotbanen, and whether they can be implemented and financed according to a agreed plan and work-sharing between Norway and Sweden. This is one example of practical cooperation, with ambitions linked to development and funding on each side, and with the time to have a reunited work, both for planning and for financing. I also believe that we should be aware that we often think north-south, in close proximity to Norway, but also internationally. It is important to think about the links east-west, and it is also important to think about the north as a whole part of this work. In the case of the east-west corridors, the representative has shown several important aspects. In these days, not least in the Central East, the importance of being able to have a functioning and good transport infrastructure for the transport of timber will be seen. It is clear that the road connections we have, both E18, E16 and further north, are very important. Then we have, as the representative was also involved, the question of Ofotbanen and of Meråkerbanen, and also the more comprehensive cooperation in the north. I think it is both possible to facilitate concrete cooperation on individual routes and to be able to achieve more comprehensive cooperation and a plan for it. I experience Barent's transport plan as an attempt to start in one part of the Nordic area, which has a great need, and I do not overlook the fact that it can also be expanded subsequently. But it is important that we build on what already exists and avoid overlapping the initiatives that are already underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e865	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising a very important issue that the states along the border with Sweden have been working on for a long time, namely to achieve a common transport planning, development and investment in cross-border transport infrastructure. It is important that rail and road systems are prioritised and continuously developed on both sides of the borders between Norway and Sweden in order to benefit fully from investment in both countries and to ensure a good transport system between Norway and the rest of Europe. I occasionally meet in the Värmland-Eastfold Border Committee, where politicians from both countries meet and work to remove frontier barriers. One important barrier is the transport infrastructure. The measures they are very concerned with, of course, are to get the railways between Oslo and Stockholm via Eastfold, and an E18 with the same standard on both sides of the border. In the Bohuslän-Eastfold Border Committee, they work for the continuous development of the railways and the E6 between Oslo and Gothenburg, and there is also a very good cooperation between the states on both sides of the border and all the way into Oslo, which works immediately. Østfold is a border state with several cross-border transport years both at Ørje and Svinesund. Most of the goods entering the country come by truck over these two border crossings. We see it as moving on the E6 daily, the road is being filled with trailers, and according to the State Road Service, the capacity will be blown up within a few years. Only 13 pst. the carriage of goods to and from Europe is on the Eastfold road. In the draft National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the Swedish Road Authority writes: ‘There has been a sharp increase in the number of vehicle trains and semi-trailers crossing the Swedish border at Svinesund in recent years.’ Further: ‘Drained half of the goods into Norway at Svinesund come from Sweden, while the other half have Sweden as a transit country. In recent years, trade with the new EU Member States in eastern Europe has increased relatively sharply, but overall, the proportion is still low. Because the goods entering Norway via Svinesund come largely from Sweden and to an increasing extent from Eastern Europe, there is little possibility of moving this goods to maritime transport.’ And on the other hand, ‘The railway is now of little importance for exports and imports, and is more important for domestic transport in Norway. As long as the speed of rail in Europe is as low as today, rail will not have a significant impact on international transport to and from Norway. Increased rail transport to and from the port of Gothenburg could be a conceivable development, but the capacity of the rail between Oslo and Gothenburg is low and it is much faster to transport the goods on trailers on the E6.» A well-developed high-speed railway could also relieve passenger transport to Copenhagen and beyond in Europe, which is currently travelling by car and air. I am concerned that the railway is being built on both sides of the Göteborg border, and it is a very good start that it is being extended to Halden by 2030, as the government has now proposed, but we must therefore go all the way to the border and further through Sweden to Gothenburg. And that's what we want to do. Through the Border Committee, I have entered into dialogue with our Swedish friends in the Parliament on our common transport challenges. I have invited three representatives from the Swedish Transport Committee to the Swedish Parliament today, because we want to show agreement on working together for a joint transport planning for cross-border transport infrastructure in Norway and Sweden. It was then very well suited to the initiative of the representative Sønsterud for a debate on this. We have a common interest in building up our common infrastructure and giving priority to this on both sides of the border, from north to eastfold. Removing barriers is a lot of work, and the transport infrastructure is part of this. A well-developed transport network between our countries will contribute to greater interaction and integration between countries. In the EU, work is underway to develop a European network of green freight corridors for efficient and sustainable freight transport. It is important for us in the Nordic countries to stand together and give priority to our corridors. We will therefore propose that our governments take the initiative to develop a common Nordic strategy for the development and investment of cross-border transport infrastructure at sea and in countries of common interest and follow up recommended decisions of the Nordic Council in 2012 on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e896	I would like to thank the interpellant for drawing attention to a matter that is important today, and which is likely to become even more important in the future. The Nordic countries have not always had a tradition of close cooperation, but if we take the era after World War II, there is little doubt that the Nordic countries have had a very positive development in terms of exchange, cooperation, harmonisation of laws and not least understanding of each other. That being said, it's not that our challenges are solved. They will always be there, in a dynamic world that is in eternal development. The need for deeper cooperation in the field of infrastructure development, both in the transport sector and in ensuring energy transmission, is high in the Nordic region – and perhaps the largest in the northernmost Nordic region: the Arctic region. Today, we know almost everything about the challenges facing the Baltic Sea and Storebælt – the Baltic Sea with its pollution problems and its major winter challenges with ice problems, and Storebælt, where shipping capacity is rapidly too low in relation to the needs of Finland and Sweden in the industry. The key here is ore and mineral production and expansion. On the other hand, Norway’s energy production potential in the north is linked to both wind power and gas/oil. This can be a win-win situation for both Norway, Sweden and Finland. We need both east-west and south-north connections between our countries based on topography and the wishes of business. Ofotbanen can be a great example of cooperation between two countries of which all parties have benefited. We need to develop cooperation with Finland in these areas. Finland wants to be able to export ore via Norway from Pajala-Kolari and many other northern parts of Finland, while wanting energy from North Norway. We see that there is a need in Northern Ireland, in Mo in Rana, to get ore out of Sweden. There are strong aspirations from Sweden to develop and expand towards Tøndelag, in terms of both freight and passengers. The same applies for further south, both in the Kongswinger area and in Eastfold. But then you can ask yourself if we have the right tools to develop these projects. The Nordic Council tries to focus on this, but at the same time the mandate to the Nordic Council and the decisions taken there are only advisory to the parliaments of the various countries – whether it is a plenary decision or whether it is a decision of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Something else — related to such large social expansions we are talking about here, where road, rail and energy transfers are involved — is whether the Nordic Council will have such a role, with 880 million. kr per year and head office in Denmark. I think it is very important that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Transport come a lot earlier and more clearly on the road towards Finland and Sweden, and not least towards Russia. The lack of clear, governance structures is well visible in the Northern Region policy, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has today been given the highest responsibility for infrastructure and development. The U.D. clearly has its scopes that are more than important enough – let it be raised above any doubt. However, in the case of business and infrastructure development, it would be more natural for this to be a matter for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Transport. I'm worried about this. When we know that we've been working in Finnmark since 1990 to get different projects, and when we talk about 2040, which is the message we get back from the north, I'm afraid that the cow can die while the grass grows. Having said that, I would like all my colleagues here at Stortinget today to have a really good Easter. Hope everyone wants to enjoy themselves – whether it's on, with or without scooters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e919	Now it looks like a lot of people have already taken up the call for Easter, but we who are here can talk about Nordic cooperation in the transport sector. I want to start by giving credit to the interpellant to address the topic of more coordination, but the key to the interpellant about an obligating plan I fully support – that we commit ourselves and coordinate across borders, perhaps especially in Scandinavia, in the Nordic region. Now it's like orbit, air, road, sea, and most of it, don't know these borders. In this way, the need for both coordination and commitment is increasingly present. From the Right, it is important for us – as we have also written in our alternative transport plan – to be also part of the European transport network, because in the EU, more and more integrated networks of transport years are being built, and in Sweden and Denmark, there is a great deal of emphasis on links with the rest of the EU. We need to be involved in this development, both north-south and east-west. European transport infrastructure, of which we are part, is also harmonised through the Trans-European Transport Network, TEN-T, which many in this Chamber know it as being. European transport infrastructure is harmonised through this network, and within the EU long-term transport policy aims to balance economic growth, social well-being and environmental protection. For this reason, extensive work is being carried out, inter alia: accidents, cows and pollution, greater degree of optimising the use of each mode of transport, and also a transition between means of transport in such a way that it becomes seamless, flexible and intermodal, as we call it in our language. Innovation and research are also important in this work, and transport and communication are being seen as a means of achieving something that is more and more important. I think a lot of people experience that in the labour market. In my state there is no shortage of arenas, and there is no lack of processes. I've been participating in these for eight to twelve years now. The obligation that the interpellant actually demands is that we measure on results and progress in time more than that we have established partnership cooperation in Västra Götaland for my county, or in Värmland together with Østfold County Municipality. We have the border committee Østfold/Värmland, the Baltic Sea Council and the Atlantic Committee – there is no need for processes. What's missing is getting something more. For my part, I would like to say that it may be necessary to modernise the transport area within the Nordic Council, because it will be advisory. I notice that the Council of State says that there will be more within this area when the national transport plan is presented, and that it is the Nordic triangle that will receive attention. I also see that the regional transport plans drawn up in the various states look across borders. We saw it last time in South Trundelag and North Trundelag, where the regional transport plan also looked across the border with Sweden. We also see in Eastfold that borders are not an obstacle, and that it is actually a prerequisite for creating a regional transport plan – but there is a lot of process and there are many meetings. The results are absent, simply because, in all contexts of these processes, committed political leadership is sought. I have challenged the Council of State to create a development company between Norway and Sweden just to achieve commitment cooperation and a prioritisation between these countries, for example. a ‘missing link’ between the Swedish border and Øksnered. I see that the government wants to get double tracks to Fredrikstad, in my county, but does not have ambitions to get it to Halden. I remember that there are still some – there are quite a few – miles from Halden to the Swedish border. As seen, the Halden–Kornsjö–Swedish border is essential for both education, industry, cross-border relations, and the government has only ambitions – no obligations – to achieve this double track, I meet what had to be in the national transport plan. I think it is necessary to both modernise and commit, and to take individual projects in a Scandinavian scheme, preferably in the Nordic Council context – but that it needs to be out of the role of the Council and over to the role of the results, is what I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e942	I am in the nutrition selection in the Nordic Council, and this is a matter that we have discussed very often, and for which there is a great deal of interest. SV and the left-green group in the Nordic Council have taken up transport cooperation in the Nordic region a long time ago, and in many contexts it has been widely supported by the Nordic Council, but unfortunately we feel that it is relatively small. One of the reasons why there is little happening, at least little, compared to the fact that concrete actions are reported back to the Nordic Council, may be that we do not have a Council of Ministers for Transport, as we do in many other areas. That's why the nutrition selection has in some cases asked to talk to the Ministers for Transport as a compensation for not having a private Council of Ministers, and that's something we'll continue with. When it comes to the concrete measures that are mentioned before today, I want to point to Ofotbanen as a very important bet. One thing is that the path is now being blown up because the ore transport from Sweden and Finland is increasing, but we also see a great potential for using that transport year for other things. Today, 200,000 tons of fish go with Ofotbanen. Here, we see a potential for using trains as an important means of transport to get good quality fish across Europe – first of all to Sweden, as one suggests with the Ofot Railway, but also later by being tied up with the European railway network, to which I will come back a little bit. Or I'll call it the Meråker Railway. If we get the electrification of him, along with the Trunder Railway, there could be an important cross-connection between Trondheim and Sundsvall. Then I also want to mention something that has not been so much going on until today, and that is the train connection between Oslo and Stockholm. He was laid down in 2005, after 133 years of operation, but fortunately he started again. I have tried to take that path a few times, but it is not the best offer in passenger traffic that you can imagine. There are rare departures, and transport does not go as fast as a wait in modern times. Otherwise I can also refer to E6 over Svinesund. In that corridor goes today 86 pst. of the goods on the car and 17 pst. on track. With modern transport, that should have been the opposite. We have to have an ambition to get a much larger share of the freight from road to road. Not only is it a modern and efficient way of transporting goods, it is also a way of making it much more convenient to run on the road for those who are going to use the road. Most people who have been driving a car have probably felt that the challenge of driving a car is to be overrun by large trailerloads. So the thing about releasing capacity in the road sector by getting the goods on track is something we have to put a lot more emphasis on in the future. Then there's also a lot of work going on, where Denmark wants to tie up to Germany on the rails through tunnels and bridges, and that development is very important. When that connection, the Fehmarn connection, comes, we're right inside the heart of Europe with rail transport. It is unlikely that we will now gradually be able to develop international cooperation in order to develop the rail network, so that we are ready to enter the heart of Europe once Denmark has joined against Germany. Then I would like to mention finally that Audun Lysbakken, SV's leader, and the leader of our sister party in Sweden, Sjöstedt, recently went out and talked about that now it was time to get a Nordic train union. I want to think that there are few areas where there is such a good opportunity for cooperation, and we have so much to pick up, so we have to bet heavier on trains in Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e959	Strengthening transport links between our Nordic neighbouring countries is an important transport challenge. It is therefore an important initiative taken in the Nordic Council, and there is an affordable follow-up here in Stortinget today from the interpellant Tone Merete Sønsterud. I myself have a background from a region where increased cross-border cooperation is a potential for enhanced business and housing. Of course, it is important that we have good communications in key areas of Norway such as the Oslo region, but also in central Norway, border cooperation has long traditions, both culturally and nutritionally. I agree that there is a need to develop a strategy for the development of transport infrastructure between neighbouring countries. I note – and agree – the emphasis of the Council of State on the importance of the North. I have also noticed the great work that has been done, which is planned to develop both the road and the track south of the country, between Eastfold and Bohuslän. Middle Norway has the same challenges and the same opportunities. So my focus will be on this region. We have, as we know, the Meråkerbahn between Storlien and Tronderbanen. On the Swedish side, it is upgraded until Storlien, it is electrified and repaired. We have a tiny missing link from Storlien to Stjørdalen and to Trondheim. This is important for border cooperation, but it requires development and investment for the future. The electrification of Meråkerbanen and Trønderbanen is something that the central party teams in the tround teams have been working on for a decade together with the Center in Sweden. It is strongly focused in the county municipalities, and there are a few main projects that are jointly prioritised from the county councils in the trøndelag counties towards the NTP. Therefore, I have great hopes that funds will now be provided for electrification of the Meråkerbahn and the Tronderbahn in the NTP. I hope finally it becomes a reality. That will mean an incredible amount for the transport of timber from Sweden. It will mean a lot for all other exchanges with Sweden, and it will also mean a lot for co-existence with countries even further east. Finland is interested and its neighbours are also further east. It will affect both freight and passenger transport, the development of business in the mountain region, industry and, above all, travel life will have great opportunities. But, as I said, good transport times are needed, and strategies for cross-border cooperation are needed. Then, of course, priority must be given to the Rørosbanen and the Solørbanen. I have asked myself many times: why do all goods in Norway have to go to Alnabru? It is the region in Norway that has the greatest traffic pressure, the biggest traffic disruption problems, and it is a terminal where capacity is detonated. If we had electrified the Rørosbanen and the Solørbanen, we could take the goods out to the continent without it going into the Oslo region. It could have gone directly to the continent on the road without charging the road network. I just picture all the salmon trailers running north-south every day. There's incredible amounts we could get on the track. In addition, we could have two-track freight trains from Hamar to Stüren. By doing so, I believe that we could have freight on the Rørosbanen and northbound on the Dovrebanen. With the electrification of the Meråkerbahnen, Trønderbanen, Rørosbanen and Solørbanen, there would be tremendous opportunities for getting more goods on the track and opportunities for greater cooperation with Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e977	When there are now two clusters coming in each other on the Great Council chair and talking about the East-West connection, no one should be surprised that you will hear the «Electrification» and the «Meråkerbahn» several times in the next few minutes! I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important topic. It's a topic and a question that we've been discussing in many different contexts, in the Transport Committee here at Stortinget, and I've also done it in my former life as County Council and Transport Policy in the North Trøndelag. We must have better plans for cross-border transport in the Nordic region – there is no doubt about it. It's high time we had a common Nordic overall thinking about how to solve the challenges of transport between us. So, of course, it's not unnatural that it's going to be the relationship with Sweden that gets the most focus, because it's after all towards Sweden we have the longest border, and where we have the biggest challenges in the transport sector. It has always been a challenge when we see the maps in the national transport plan. You see the big map of Norway, and we see the borders with Sweden, and it's completely white on the Swedish side. Everybody's wondering what's going on there. I believe that if you take the Meråker track and what are the challenges there as an example, it shows very well what happens when you don't have a general thinking. This is how, as the representative, Mr. Greni, said in his statement, quite many years ago, the railway was already rusted up and electrified on the Swedish side, all the way to Storlien, which is on the border with the Nord-Trøndelag, for over 1 billion. kr. At the time you did it, the Meråker Railway was also in a much worse condition than it is today. It was then that it was not possible to have a cup of coffee on the table on the train when you took the Meråkerbahn. It's done something about it, so the groundwork itself is pretty good, but you're missing electrification. It has been about processes regionally and locally. Yes, there have been many processes regionally and locally. I have to admit that I have also been one of those who have been involved in these regional and local processes in my home country. In this context, we can thank Interreg for the fact that many of these processes have been carried out. But we have to have an overall national thinking on this, so getting these regional ideas sewn together so that they fit into our own national overall thinking on transport is very important. So back to Meråkerbanen and this wanted electrification. Everyone has now lifted their ‘missing links’. Now there are probably missing links all over the country, and the lack of electrification of the Meråkerbahn is a missing link. So we're missing electricity from Storlien to Trondheim. Today it is actually a relatively good offer for passenger transport by train from Trondheim to Østersund. The problem is that the offer is a diesel train, so when one comes to Sweden, a diesel train runs below the current lines. That's the way it is today, and it can't be like that in the future. Another challenge is that we now see that freight transport on the Meråkerbahn has been considerably reduced, in particular the transport of timber. One of the explanations is that you have to either switch locomotives, go from electricity to diesel when you're on Storlien, or you have to drive diesel all the way, and that's not very effective. When, of course, timber transport on the roads increases, it becomes a challenge. The positive thing is that those who produce lime in Verdalen have a customer in Sweden who requires you to transport by train, so some train transport is still going. We also see that you are very concerned about this locally and regionally. I come from the Nord-Trøndelag and the one who spoke before me, from the South-Trøndelag, and our friends in Jämtland say they come from the East-Trøndelag! These three tround layer groups have formed a joint association called the Elbanen STS Association. The STS stands for Steinkjer-Trondheim-Storlien. It is owned by these three counties. They work out of a common interest in putting this electrification in place. There is an increased pressure on the east-west connection. There has been an increase in trade and thus an increase in freight transport. We also see that tourism is increasing. So does the Sulphur Directive that it is now gradually becoming profitable to carry the goods from the east to the west instead of taking them out on ships in the Baltic Sea. So here we have great opportunities if we are able to pair our feet properly, make the right strategies and, not least, put in place the right measures when we are going to launch Norway's new national transport plan. It is hoped that, in the future, we will actually be able to put in place an overall strategic approach to transport — not just between Norway and Sweden, but between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1003	Let me also thank the representative Sønsterud for addressing this important topic. I think the Nordic Council bodies have a central and important job to do to shed light on this, and make sure it comes out. The Minister of Transport has also pointed out that it is important that we do not now create new arenas or new levels. I agree with the Council of State on that. I imagine that such an overall strategy will be based primarily on the existing structures we have. This is more a strategy for the interaction of these structures, not a question of creating new structures. There is every reason to monitor structural developments in the public sector. There will be more structures quickly than you might initially want. There is a wide range of issues that this deals with. The representative Irene Johansen was involved in some local issues. There was also the last speaker here, and you shouldn't travel much in the border areas until you see that these are very sensitive issues for the population, especially in the border counties. We've talked a lot about trains, but we could also talk about buses. One of the simple things about stopping the Stockholm bus in the border areas – in the Eastfold municipalities where it passes – is a problem that relates to concession issues. This should perhaps be easy to solve, and it's felt problems for those who work on one side of the border and live on the other. There is therefore a poor relationship between those who work with the problems related to local transport. At the very other end of the scale comes e.g. a project headed by the eight million-million-town community of Oslo. This is a very visionary project that is about building together the Oslo region, the Gothenburg region and the Copenhagen–Malmo region, in line with larger, European road map, where you have a very long-term perspective on both time and planning. It's a very expensive and big project. Nevertheless, if you want it long enough, the dreams can also come true. It is a question of seeing that most major projects are also the sum of many small ones. We're going to expand the intercity triangle almost to the limit. Only there are important incentives or resources to put such a project in place. Other cross-country sections such as Meråkerbanen and Ofotbanen have also been mentioned. They focus on the economic integration of Norway and Sweden and play an important role in this context. Traffic is about long processes – unfortunately often a little too long processes. Border areas are often provinces, either geographically or at least mentally, when working on transport policies in each country. That's why it's very important that we now get a better routine of joint Nordic cooperation. Setting up a strategy for this – and perhaps a rolling strategy – could strengthen this cooperation in the time perspective that will be needed. That's also what I'm experiencing is the interpellant's business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1025	First, I want to thank the interpellant. Like her, I am also a member of the Nordic Council of Ministers and have been involved in discussions on the challenges and development of Nordic transport infrastructure. As regards the extraction of natural resources and the transport of goods in, to and from North Norway, it is important that we look at corridors across borders. One of the routes mentioned in the Nordic Council's work on this Nordic transport infrastructure, which is mentioned many times in the debate here today, is Ofotbanen. It goes from Narvik to Kiruna in Sweden. On the Norwegian side, the track distance is only 42 kilometers. Today, the Ofot Railway is a major roadway for goods to and from the northern part of the country. The ore transport over Ofotban is known to most people. The ore in Norrbotten and North Finland is nothing worth anything, just graystone, if it hadn't been for Ofotbanen and the ice-free port of Narvik. Less well-known is the fact that a substantial proportion of consumer goods consumed in the three northernmost states are transported there by rail south to Narvik — through Sweden — from there to be transported by car. All 95 pst. of the groceries of the Norway Group, Rema 1000 and Coop in Finnmark, Troms and Northern Nordland are transported via Ofotbanen. In total, we are talking about approx. 65000 containers over Narvik by train – in and out. Half of this goes further north on the car: 32 500 containers per year, more than 600 containers per week. In the opposite direction, the transport of fish already represents significant volumes. Today this is 120 000 tonnes of fish. 50 pst. Thus, of the fish leaving Norway on trains, go via Ofotbanen. Fishing transport has the potential to grow strongly. Transport of fish southwards to the markets of Europe by Ofotbanen from Narvik is a fast, efficient, economical and, in particular, environmentally friendly alternative. The ore transport will double in just a few years, and then we will also have to double up by rail. Gradually, cross-tracks are being expanded in several places. We are at a good time, and last week the Minister for Transport made promises of 1.6 billion. kr to two new double-track sections. In the new national transport plan presented in April, the measures will increase capacity from today’s 18 to 27 trains in each direction. But I want to make it clear: there are double tracks we need for LKAB to realise its planned growth, and for Northland Resources to get started properly. This is north-eastern policy at its very best: better cross-linking in the North Callot, development of our natural advantage and value creation with us and with our neighbours. Furthermore, we also need to consider developing the transport corridors from the east – China – towards the west – the USA – via Narvik. Ofot track must simply not become a bottleneck. We don't want a clean ore track, either. There should be other freight trains here – both ways, several times a day. We also need to prepare for a time when maybe LNG can also be sold and transported from North Norway and Narvik to our neighbours in the east, while maintaining and improving the proximity and distance of passengers. Ofotban is just 1 pst. of the total Norwegian railway. However, the volume of goods on Ofotbanen accounts for approx. 60 pst. of the total volume of goods in Norway today. The railway works' forecasts show that this freight traffic will increase far beyond what is currently the capacity of the Ofot track. Narvik is the leading logistics hub in North Norway. It is important that Norway and Sweden continue their good cooperation in order to develop this route into the future, as the Council of State also mentioned in its statement and the interpellant said. Finally, I just think it is worth mentioning that Ofotbanen is included as an extension of the EU's priority transport networks. Priority sections of this transport network are referred to as ‘core’. The EU has identified two places in Norway, Oslo and Narvik, which it is important that the EU also prioritises, as does the Nordic Council and, like what this government does, as we will see in the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1046	I agree without further delay with the interpellant that Nordic transport cooperation needs to be expanded. Rather than cultivating the inequalities, we should look for the similarities and common interests. The fact that Finland, Sweden and Denmark are members of the EU and participate in the design of the single European transport market underlines the importance of close Nordic cooperation. As abroad, Nordic transport cooperation is actually more important for us than for the other countries. I might have a slightly different approach to this debate than most of the others who have spoken here today. I have recorded that the European Commission's efforts to further liberalise the European transport market are now facing strong opposition, and that is good. For example, Member States – and to a large extent our Nordic neighbouring countries – are not prepared to repeal today’s cabotage rules and allow free movement in the European transport market. Today's rules are certainly liberal enough. In addition, they are practised somewhat differently from one country to another, not least in relation to the control regime or rather to the inadequacy of the control regime. In fact, inadequate control contributes to the depletion of the Nordic transport market in favour of carriers in Europe’s low-cost country. The consequences of this are experienced daily on Norwegian winter roads, where inadequately equipped car combinations are stuck in snow drivers. We have examples of local people actually having to carry food to emergency drivers. Apart from the fact that non-resident wagon trains are obviously a safety problem on Norwegian roads, underpaid foreign drivers contribute to a distortion of competition that threatens Norwegian pay and working conditions in this sector. I do not hesitate to characterize this as social dumping and I am pleased that the government is now looking at the transport industry in its professional struggle for a decent working life. That fight has full support in this house. I know that the trade movement in the Nordic region is concerned, not least with this Nordic Transport Workers' Federation, which is now seeing important jobs disappear into the low-cost countries of former Eastern Europe. In close cooperation with employers, the transport worker federation calls for a common understanding of the rules in force, coordinated legislative practices and joint intensified control. An example of this is the design of cabotage rules, i.e. access to transport operations by non-resident vehicles in each country. With us, this means that non-resident wagon trains have access to run three journeys over a period of seven days before the wagon train has to leave the country. A journey, or a transport operation, is not necessarily a regulatory journey, for a journey may consist of loading and unloading several times along the way. In the tourist area, it's even worse. Today’s liberal rules result in Norwegian companies being outsourced by foreign companies with employee pay and working conditions as input, which highly update measures such as the publication of collective bargaining agreements and joint and several liability of the contracting entities. This is not just a Norwegian situation. There are several countries, not least our Nordic neighbouring countries, that are concerned with the exact same thing. I am fully aware that the European Union will increasingly lay the foundations and rules for the European transport market. It is and is going to be a significant challenge for us. It is enough to mention the last attempt of the European Commission to liberalise rail transport in Europe, which has also raised considerable resistance in individual Member States. I began this article by stressing the importance of Nordic transport cooperation in the EU, and I would like to end it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1065	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter. For those of us who have grown up on the border, the common labour market between Norway and Sweden in southern Hedmark has always been there, and it has actually been almost stronger at times than it is today. For those of us who have worked very hard for the Kongswingerbahn and the upgrading of it for many years, it has been a little strange to see how it has not got any good place, either in a national railway policy or in a policy where cooperation between Norway and Sweden was to stand up. We saw this under the Bondevik administration when the route between Oslo and Stockholm via Kongsvinger was closed. It was pretty bad to see that a stretch that goes from the capital center to the capital center of two neighbouring countries where the ratio is so good, and where you have a great untapped potential for better cooperation, shouldn't be a priority task. It says a little bit about the big turnaround operation that the red-green government has done on the railway side in total. Therefore, the Kongswingerbahn and the route towards Sweden should be given far more priority than it has become at present. It has been that the states on both sides of the border have spent money on maintaining a train offer across the border. It has been a very good initiative, but it is clear that if it is not properly anchored in the national strategy of the two countries that one should have rail traffic for both goods and people on this route, it is a little difficult to get it well enough. Now there are bets, and there are full trains on the Kongswingerbahn – there are so many trains that you have had to install new and more trains. This is an area that has had great commuting against Sweden, but also against Oslo, which has very historical roots, and that is going to continue to be so. Here, there is a great potential for improving transport across borders as well. I've been working on this for quite many years and talking to a lot of Swedish politicians about this saying that they almost gave up Norway on our side of the border. I sincerely hope that we will now get some lift there, because on the other side of the border is much of the track – not all – very good, so that it is possible to realize Stockholm-Oslo quickly across the border. The line on the Norwegian side is not sufficiently long. There is a lot of the track that has a very good curve and that facilitates more modern train transport than it is today. In a national strategy for goods on the road, this route will be very important. In particular, if you are able to see it in the context of getting electricity on the Røros and Solørbahn and freight terminal on Kongsvinger, you will be able to relieve a lot of the traffic currently going on the Dovrebane, and in principle you will have two tracks between Middle Norway and East Norway and the possibility of transporting goods straight out to Sweden and the continent without having to enter the Alnabru, which is a plug in freight terminal context. This is very important for the county of Hedmark, also because we depend on being able to transport – and should transport – more of what we produce, namely timber, wood and other wood-based products, on the road. Some of it's going across the border, and then we're totally dependent on plans being made that go hand in hand, not just in Norway, but that stick together across borders. It's very important, so I'm very happy with this initiative. Finally, I would just like to support much of what the representative Steinar Gullvåg spoke about in this context, namely the problems of social dumping and cross-border transport. It's a big and unresolved problem for the moment, but if we can build up the rail system and get more of the transport on track, we have a much better control, even with parts of this sector that are very vulnerable to social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1082	Thank you for a very good debate. The representative Steinar Gullvåg, and now Karin Andersen, also addressed the problems of cabotage and social dumping that it is incredibly important that we now have a great focus on. Unfortunately, the problems in the transport sector are growing at record speed in view of this – we must, of course, also take this with us. The articles, as I see it, underline the absolute importance and have shown us the need for an overall strategy. As we know, and as many have been involved in this debate, there is now work in the EU to develop a European network of green freight corridors for efficient and sustainable freight transport. Work is being done to coordinate the infrastructure of the Member States, and they will make an impact on particularly important areas and corridors. I think it's an advantage if we could have a common Nordic voice in the work that's going on there. Just over Easter, the Nordic Council will meet in Stockholm. In that meeting we will also follow up this matter with questions to the Swedish Minister for Cooperation. In addition, we will also discuss the matter and ask about the possibility of a common Nordic air block on aviation safety, because it is also a matter that concerns many people. Yesterday, the Transport Committee met with Avinor, who was also positive that we would bring this into the Nordic Council. There are many good forces that are now working well, and they are moving in the same direction. It promises good infrastructure solutions, of which all our Nordic countries will benefit, and it will contribute to growth and better opportunities, both for people living in the Nordic region, for businesses and for business. I would like to make it brief: I thank you again for the debate, and I am happy for the further work, both in the Nordic Council and with the matters we have now discussed. Since I am at least the last bigotry representative to stand on this pulpit before Easter, I wish the President a good Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1099	Thank you very much to the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1102	I think this has been an interesting debate round. There are a number of themes currently selected. Each of the Nordic countries will draw up its transport plans on the basis of a good relationship in the transport system, a modern transport system and meeting the important transport needs of its society. It is clear that there are many opportunities — which I think one has also pointed out in the debate today — to coordinate the interests of the Nordic countries. We come back from the Nordic Council of Ministers to the Nordic Council with an answer to the enquiry that has come from there. I also look forward to the government discussing a joint Barents Transport Plan in September with the other Barents Ministers. Then I think the debate is an interesting trip through the country, because you have E8 in Troms, where you are concerned about the Skibot-border section. Then you have E10 at Narvik and E12 and E14, which we haven't heard much about, but which is also there. You have E16, which is very important to many – over Kongswinger and to Sweden – and you have not least E18 and E6. There are very many sections between Norway and Sweden of great importance — both for passenger transport and not least for business and business. Nor should we forget the ferry connections between Norway and Denmark and the importance they actually have, both for the transport of persons and goods between Denmark and southern Norway. Several have been on the routes. I see the meaning of them. What has been said about the Ofot Railway is important. There are great opportunities in the years to come. I have also said – as I come from the same core area as the representatives Bratli and Greni – notice what they have said about Tronderbanen and Meråkerbanen, which are important in this context, and also the route between Stockholm and Oslo. The point is that it is important to say that there are important transport needs across the country, linked to both road and rail. There are also some balances to be made with regard to the representative of Gullvåg, namely the competitive relationship between the different modes of transport and the conditions for those working and operating in the different modes of transport. There is no doubt that during the financial crisis, the railway was broken, and it has not completely recovered in terms of freight traffic. It is currently also challenged by competition in road transport, which is largely about cabotage issues. Working and pay conditions for foreign drivers are also a difficult challenge for the Norwegian truck industry and also for getting more goods across from road to road. I would like to thank you for a good debate, and since I am definitely the last speaker, I shall be allowed to wish the representatives of the Storting a good Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1123	The President is absolutely sure that many thoughts will go to the Minister of Transport on the Easter exit. At the same time, I wish her a good Easter and ask her to pass it on to the government. The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-22.ana.ud489e1138	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
