ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e70	Honourable co-representatives! Former employee representative of the Workers' Party in Hordaland, Erling Løseth, is dead, 85 years old. Erling Løseth was a representative from 1969 and met firmly from October 1977 to October 1981 as the representative of Hallvard Bakke and Arne Nilsen during their term of council. Erling Løseth was a member of the Administrative Committee and the Church and Education Committee. Løseth was a teacher of the profession, and after the years of the Stortinget he wanted to return to the Women's House and to his civil job as principal at the Sunde School. He was perceived as a strict schoolman who made strict demands both on himself, on the students and on the employees. He completed his professional career as head of school in Women's Heath in 1993. Erling Løseth held many public positions, and he was a very active politician in the Kvinnherad municipality and in the Hordaland county municipality for many years in the 1960s and 1970s. The politician Erling Løseth is referred to as a clean and honest human being. He was always well prepared for meetings, and he was well oriented in most social issues. He took good care of the Women's Heath and the interests of the region, both in the Stortinget and as county and municipal politicians. He was concerned about how one had to set up society to achieve the policy objectives. He was careful and focused on safe financial management. Erling Løseth was also interested in sports. He excelled, among other things. as an unusually good footballer at the Trio club, and he used part of the sports terminology in politics. In his last newspaper interview as a big man, some thirty years ago, he said, among other things.: 'To sit on the Storting is to participate in a team game. Here there is not much room for political solo games on the arena.’ Many thought Løseth was a typical player on Stortinget’s ‘A’ team. Those who knew Erling also knew that he was in particular a caring and loving family man. We thank Erling Løseth for his work and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e89	The representatives Marit Nybakk and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e101	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e117	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President of the case, up to 5 minutes to each of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e126	Today, we are debating the very first big message about violence in close relationships – a big message full of good actions that will enable us to prevent better, help more and to assist women, men and children who are subjected to violence in a close relationship, to help them become safe and free children and adults, a big message that comes with 75 million. kr. I believe that through the notification – and the suspension – we have succeeded in taking good action to protect the victims, but also the perpetrator. And today, I'm proud to have been involved in putting in place measures that could help people get out of terror and back to society, and to have contributed to actions that better than before will prevent violence in close relationships. Before I get closer to the measures, I would like to say a little about the background to the big message. Violence in close relationships is a major social problem, which has unfortunately been seen as a private matter for a long time. Over the last few years, government – and opposition politicians – together with various non-governmental organisations have raised the issue. That's why we're there today. Violence in close relations has been a high priority political area over the last eight years, with a red-green government. We have worked systematically to strengthen equality and to make violence visible, and to bring violence in close relations out of the private spaces and into the public arena. Four action plans have made this work clear and visible. An example of this is that more than ever they report violence in close relationships. And after today's treatment, the government is embarking on the fifth action plan on violence in close relations. That's what the committee is pleased about. And the Committee has given the government clear insight into what we think should be included in this announced action plan. The figures are clear: the scale of violence costs society between 4.5 and 6 billion. kr annually, and between 75 000 and 100 000 people per year are exposed to violence in a close relationship. But these numbers don't give us a glimpse of the fear, despair and lack of freedom that affects the people behind the numbers. Nor do they show how violence and fear permeates everyday life for women and children and provides traumas that follow them for years. The abuses are serious, they often go on over time, they can include both physical and mental violence and, in worst cases, they take their lives. And not least, violence is practiced where you should feel safest, in your own home, and by one of your closest. The vast majority of those who are subjected to violence in a close relationship are women. The most serious violence is that of men who put on women. But men also experience violence in relationships, whether physical or mental, and the stigma and the darkness among these are probably great. Children who experience domestic violence are at high risk of becoming insecure and of reducing health and quality of life, including in adulthood. We also know that the adverse effects of living in a family where there is violence between adults are equivalent to being directly exposed to violence. The government wants to see violence and sexual abuse against children in a broader perspective and with full attention directed at the children. Therefore, the government will present a strategy on violence and sexual abuse against children and young people, and the Committee sets up a series of inputs to that strategy. Last week I met Marta Santos Pais, the UN Special Rapporteur for Violence against Children. She said something important: what is so good about the work you do in Norway is that it is knowledge-based. I fully agree with that. We can't rely on visualization, so we need up-to-date numbers. Therefore, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, is to conduct a nation-wide investigation of violence in close relations and sexual abuse. We need to increase knowledge of violence in close relationships – in the police, in the emergency services, in schools and for employees at various receptions. Then we also need more research, and a separate research programme on violence in close relationships is to be established. One of the measures outlined in the Communication is that we need to focus on the implementation and operationalisation of knowledge. Knowledge and scope studies are of no use if they are not made available to those who want to benefit from it in their profession. We also need to strengthen the competence for violence in relief services, especially in professional groups working with people every day. Good measures to prevent violence could save society a great deal of money and save the victims of violence from suffering. In order to prevent better, we need to pay particular attention to increased knowledge in the fight against violence in close relations. It is important that school and kindergarten employees know how to detect violence and abuse, and know how to take their suspicion further, and it is important that doctors have the knowledge to be able to detect whether damage comes from play or from battle. In order to dry out, it is very important to many that they know that they will receive good follow-up from the police. The establishment of family violence coordinators in all police districts and family violence teams in the major cities has been an important part of strengthening the efforts of the police. Police, like many others, have potential for improvement, and hence, in the future, there is a need to strengthen knowledge, competence, cooperation and the fight against violence in close relations. Although the number of reviews goes up, there are too many cases of violence in close relationships, and the length of the procedure is too long. This becomes an additional load for the subject. This can, in the ultimate sense, help to reduce the number of police visits to get the necessary help to get away from a violent situation. It is also important that the police in their statistics introduce more categories, in order to obtain the best possible picture of the various forms of violence and how they take place in a close relationship, and violence against children should be recorded in a separate category of police statistics. The Communication proposes to test collaborative projects similar to the Karin project in Malmö, at Stovner. Here, police and services are to provide assistance to victims of violence in the same locality. Tuesday this week I visited Project Karin in Malmö. They started by offering help to vulnerable women and men, and eventually extended the project to a concept where the children’s home is located under the same roof. In addition, they also provide treatment to those who commit violence. Over the past 35 years, crisis centres have been at the root of the provision of assistance to women and their children at risk of violence. The crisis centre offer has been through a number of changes in recent years, with the legalisation of the offer being the most important. The Committee considers that the time has come to clarify the law and therefore asks in its position that a counsellor should be established to the Crisis Centres Act. The majority goes into it, the minority wants to go further. We must strengthen and anchor the offer to the victims of the municipalities. Municipalities shall facilitate the best possible quality of life for citizens and provide most services to victims of violence in close relationships. It is important that municipalities increase their knowledge of their services so that they are able to prevent and follow up on the people who are being or have been exposed to violence. School health services play an important role in the work of municipalities and must also operate in schools against the different groups of students. It is therefore very gratifying that the Minister of Health, when presenting the Public Health Communication, made promises of 300 new health sisters. Children’s homes are about creating safe people – safe little people. During the year there will be ten children's houses in place around the country. Children’s homes shall provide medical examinations and hearings of children exposed to violence, abuse or other criminal offences. During September the children’s houses in Bodø and Sandefjord shall be in place. This will lead to more children getting help, and hopefully the waiting time for a child’s hearing will decrease. Before I finish, I will briefly mention the abuse recipients, where we are today transferring responsibility from the municipalities to the specialist health service. Here, there's a disagreement between position and opposition. We want everyone who is subjected to violence to good help. The background to the majority’s position is that we want to create a secure framework for the offenders, so that we can make good offers for those who are victims of abuse – adults and children. As in other health services, what requires special competence should be provided in the specialist healthcare service, while that which is frequent or requires less specialised competence should be provided in the municipal health and care service. This implies that all services to children exposed to violence and abuse should be provided by the specialist health service. In the case of adults, the service of women and men exposed to sexual violence should be provided for by reception in the specialist health service, while relative violence, when of the type that can be handled professionally in the municipalities, should be managed there. In larger municipalities, this problem should be seen in the context. This is an action supported by UNICEF and the Children’s Ombudsman. The Children's Ombudsman is also at the gallery here today and follows the debate. Many may think that this does not concern them, but the speech of the figures is clear. Because of male violence, 1,000 women in Norway are fleeing. They live at a strictly confidential address, and between 1,200 and 1,800 women go at any time with a violent alarm in Norway. Finally, I would like to ask the opposition to consider making proposal No. 3 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e177	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a very flexible and flexible handling of the matter – thank you, Anna. The Progress Party would like to welcome this big message, which deals with a very important topic. We want to take action to combat some of the worst that is happening around us in society, and we also support many of the measures proposed. But then we see clearly that the government is not always concrete enough. We need action, not just reports and assessments of what we have to do. The Progress Party responds to the fact that an important part of what is violence in close relations is not part of this report. We think first of all about sexual mutilation and forced marriage, which we clearly believe should have been included in the plan. There have been major changes in who comes to the crisis centres. 62 pst. by those who use them, are minority women. Many lack networks, are poorly integrated and come from cultures where you are expected to stay, regardless of violence or abuse. We also need to take much more action to target young girls and boys who live in eternal fear of their own lives if they become too Norwegian. These cultural differences have to be addressed, and we have to demand that we deal with Norwegian law, not Sharia, and with clear consequences if you don't. Unfortunately, some of these issues have been left out in the message. Violence between people who are close to each other is a major public health problem. Not only is it very serious for those involved, but it also has a high cost for society – it's suggested up to 6 billion. kr annually, but there are also large numbers of darkness. One of our proposals has to do with parental rights. We believe that if a mother or father is convicted of serious abuse of his or her own children, he or she should be able to be deprived of his or her parental rights and of the right to co-exist with the child. It is completely insane that, after an end to restitution, violent and perpetrators get all rights back to their children. We also want more resources to be used to monitor violence against children. The statistical basis we have is out of date and not good enough. We want to know more about this, so we can take the right action. One of the things that the message reveals, and we're responding to, is that the waiting time for children to be interrogated is increasing. It is unsustainable, and we ask that immediate action be taken to ensure that the current legislation on the timing of child referencing is complied with. This is not unknown to the government. After all, they've had a majority government for eight years, so you can ask yourself why they haven't been able to solve this. Another terrible consequence is that many people have to live with hidden addresses. Many of these also have to re-establish themselves several times, and the situation becomes even more difficult when one experiences high costs of fleeing from a place of residence. Building up a new life costs. We therefore believe that the House Bank must have a much more important role for those who live or have lived with hidden addresses, so-called Code 6. We therefore propose that it be organised in order to improve the house banking system for them. Requirements for equity and other flexible arrangements must be put in place. We see in the case that the majority parties are not satisfied with how the abuse recipients operate. They believe that there is too much variation in the quality of the offer. Their answer to how this is to be resolved is to connect the specialist healthcare service. Children who are victims of violence and abuse should be provided by specialist health services, but they want to distinguish between sexual violence and sexual violence in adults. We're critical of this. We are also concerned about the process when someone is awarded compensation after a rape case. There is no doubt that such a case is a heavy burden on those involved, and we think it is wrong that you have to deal with the overshooter's economy in connection with the payment of compensation. We believe optimally that the state should advance claims – not month by month as it is now posted with the new SI scheme, but all at once – so that the victims can put the whole thing behind and move on in life. As it is and is being added up to now, a reminder of what has happened becomes every month. Furthermore, we ask again that the government investigate the establishment of victim care and show that an overall committee has actually asked the government to do so twice before. So to ourselves. As I said, children are a vulnerable group, a group that is unable to protect itself or know what is normal or not normal, or where you turn or who you can talk to. Previous studies estimate that more than 100,000 children live with family violence. What have we learned from the Christoffer case, the Alvdal case, and not least the last family violence case, which has been quite terrible to be a witness to? Why is this not previously revealed? Is that fear of being wrong? Why isn't it reported? Is there uncertainty as to what will happen if you say from? Or is it just that everything is so taboo? I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e209	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e212	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good job. The Committee is broadly unanimous in its comments. This is due very much to the rapporteur's efforts. Right and I am pleased that the committee position – thanks to this – is clear that violence and abuse in close relations affects individuals. There is no difference between the ability of men and women to deal with violence or abuse in Norway, even though the traditional black and white image of women as victims only, and the man who only perpetrates and attacks violence, of course affects debates, settings and not least resource efforts and measures very much. The next step in the gender equality struggle here in Norway is that it manifests itself in better assistance and follow-up of both men and women, and that individuals are seen regardless of gender, not only as potentially vulnerable but also as perpetrators of violence and abuse. In particular, it is important, as a unanimous committee points out, to include other vulnerable groups such as: children in minority settings, the LHBT population and the elderly in terms of thinking and attention related to violence and abuse. As a former member of the Norwegian Crisis Centre Association, Skeiv Verden, Community against sexual abuse and the current member of the Reform Board, this is, for me, a joyous common political and modern approach to equality issues. I want to praise all the organisations and idealists who work in this field, alongside those organisations. However, a major challenge is the sector thinking that creates challenges in establishing effective measures to help victims of violence. Much better coordination is needed for overall work on, for example: Forced marriage, trafficking in human beings and what we are discussing here today: violence in close relations. The right agrees that the auxiliaries must gain greater competence in violence and abuse in close relationships, including how to detect that patients, students or other people encounter, are subjected to violence, assault or witness to it, so that they will be able to help them in a good way. This is also the reason why the Right Party and the Progressive Party propose that a quality regulation be drawn up to clarify what is actually expected of the municipalities in their efforts to strengthen the provision of the municipal crisis centre. At the same time, it is important to understand that skills are also about the willingness to do something and good attitudes to detect violence or abuse. This applies not least in relationships where there are women who engage in violence, in contact with parts of the immigrant population and in sexual relations. It is therefore necessary to follow closely the notification to the Grand Duchy of Education and Training for the professions of the welfare country. We have to learn from effective action and that we do not academia and bureaucracy too much. In Westfold, for example, work. incestcentered very well to train schools and schoolchildren all the way down to the age of seven on assault and violence, as shown on the Dagsrevy the other day. We need more of this kind of action. In addition, the Right wishes to make it easier to deprive parents of the right where father or mother is convicted of serious abuses against their own children. I refer to proposals from the Right and the Advance Party on this. Much better and more continuous statistics are also needed on violence and abuse against children, including children who are witnesses to violence, and I refer to proposals from the minority. We agreed a lot, but then we saw one big disagreement. Right-wing does not support the proposed reorganisation of the attack recipients. It's been tried before. Intervention receptions must be organised in such a way that all groups, including men, feel that receptions provide necessary and relevant treatment. Splitting responsibility for treating adults who have been sexually assaulted and those who have been subjected to violence in close relationships may harm existing professional environments, and valuable existing competences and professional environments could be lost. This could contribute to a weakening of emergency services for persons exposed to sexual abuse and those exposed to violence in close relationships. If the infringement is divided into two levels, there could be a class distinction as to the emergency resources made available to the two groups. A new, bourgeois majority will hopefully be able to reverse that process. Otherwise, I want to end what I started with, give honor to the case rapporteur and thank you for a good cooperation on a matter in which all parties in the Stortinget, in cooperation with the government, have shares, because it is incredibly important that we agree on this. That is why it is very important for the inter-political consensus that has also become to include groups that have not previously been included in the public debate, which the rapporteur has thus explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e231	Violence in close relationships – said in plain terms: violence against women and children – and yes, in some cases also against men – we should never underestimate is a comprehensive and global problem. Unfortunately, this crime exists in all societies and throughout the world. Unfortunately, Norwegian society is no exception. Also our women, children and men are subjected to violence, gladly from their neighbors. However, we have reason to say that, as a society, at least over the last 40 years, we have taken this issue seriously. A formidable job has been done to prevent, combat, investigate, punish and heal the injuries and wounds caused by both physical and psychological violence. The establishment of crisis centres was a solid popular movement, which was initiated by engaged women, and which was later supported by men. I want to thank you today. Since then, many individuals, institutions, Stortinget and the government in many parties have done a brilliant job. Nevertheless, as long as one person is subjected to violence in this country, we cannot call ourselves a fully developed and civilised society. This is a big ambition. But it's an ambition a nation worthy of. SV will fight to achieve this ambition. Our government has continued this great job with experience and power. One that should be thanked separately today is former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. With his experience and commitment, he focused on violence in close relationships. He worked to combat attitudes. At the same time, he worked to get legislation in place and to strengthen resources. I also thank the state councils Grete Faremo and Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who in the government are continuing this job. It must be included in a day such as this that this government has made its own criminal order against violence in close relations, for those exposed now receive free legal assistance for six hours. The victims of violence now have the right to object in the courts. We have strengthened the competences and resources of the police, in the courts, in the criminal services and in emergency services out there – for example, the Alternative to Violence Foundation is. country-wide today. There are eight children's houses. I am fully aware that these are waiting lists. It hurts us all, from the outside left to the outside right and in society in general, when we see how long children have to wait to get to the outside right and get help. But it's a job that's done every day, and we're going to keep the pressure up, both from the government's side and the SV's side, so that children can get help as soon as possible. It is not necessary to address the measures addressed by the notification. It is because they are lying there, and because the rapporteur has done a fantastic job and mentioned a good part of them in his post. I then want to take up an action that we know there are controversy around, and against which critical voices have been addressed. It concerns the transfer of abuse recipients to the specialist health service. In SV we take this seriously. And so do we in the government. We want to establish from the Great Council today that the purpose of this action is to strengthen the offer and competence that already exists there. It has to be further developed. That competence shall not be pre-played, but shall be strengthened and further developed where it is. But where this competence is not today, we must build this competence, because it deserves women and children, and also men, who are subjected to violence. There's an ongoing process ahead, and we're going to have a strong focus on it. Finally, I would like to say again: today is a milestone. Now for the first time, we're dealing with a big message where the whole Big City is looking forward, putting the closet – to say it like that – where it's going to say, "We want to become a civilised society." In a civilised society, not a single person, whether children, women or men, shall be subjected to violence. We need to prevent, we need to fight, we need to punish, and we need to heal the wounds that are there, both mentally and physically.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e252	The need for food and drink, a place to bow and protect from heat and cold is something we all have. But we also have an innate need to evolve, to be safe, to be happy in someone, and to be happy in us. We are social creatures, and we live our lives in relationships with others. International conventions state that meeting basic needs is universal human rights. They shall apply to all, irrespective of sex, age, sexual orientation, etc. Today, when we talk about the theme of choice in close relationships, we talk about gross violation of individuals who get violated these basic dishes. How can a person develop well if a liver is in an unsafe and destructive condition where a person does not experience signs of love, but signs of the opposite? The Justice Committee concludes that everyone has the right to a life without power. We should like to be able to say, in what we see as a modern, civilised society, how far we've come. We wanted what we saw of power in the Norwegian community, only to be the observances of uncivilized behaviour from ancient times. But it's not like that. Both sexes are exposed to power in close relationships, but there are especially women and young people who are exposed to this. Missing gender equality and power distribution are often drawn up as one of the reasons why it is. That's right enough. But I don't think a person should do this as a question of equal pay or job-seeking percentages. It is about individuals who exercise power and who are victims of the rule of law. Most of those who exercise authority are stronger physically than the victim; they have a higher testosterone level and are more aggressive. Many of them have experienced election in childhood itself, and it seems that one leads this obscenity into one's own relationship and to the next generation. So we have to go in and see what can prevent them from moving to power. One example is that in the big news, we clearly say that the offer of a mental - health training course should be strengthened. I think in this big message we can see prevention and follow-up in context, not only to those who are exposed to the power, but also to those who exercise it. We look at the causes of the election that take place in close relationships, and state that we need targeted action and more knowledge. It is a stated objective that the health and care services and the apparatus of the police and the judiciary should be better able to prevent this violence and provide better assistance to those who experience being exposed to the authority. When we write the experience selected, there is one way to include those who see the chosen one, e.g. children who live with fear because one knows that one parent can go free at any time. The previously used enumeration was 'witness to selection'. By writing 'Experience Selected' we are better informed that this also affects those who are victims of the election without being beaten. The Committee's comments show a lot of what we are jointly concerned about. I can't go into all the themes now, but I want to underline something important, in my opinion. It's that plans, strategies and messages are of course important, but it's the concrete follow-up that counts when it comes to everything. The red-green government has shown the will and ability to take hold of power in close relations. Never before has this theme been raised so much, talk so much about it, and it has never been done so much specifically with the problem. This gives reason to be optimistic about the follow-up of the message. We've created more and more children's houses, where assaulted kids are taken far better care of than before. We have created family councillor positions in the police districts, so that the police have been increasingly good at gripsing with power in close relationships. It's not called housewreck anymore, it's a progress in itself. We have also reinforced the punishment for violence and abuse. There shall be a link between the seriousness of the offence and the level of penalties. The organisation of offenders is one of the themes on which there has been much discussion — rightly so, because this is important. We have to make sure that good, existing offers don't get worse. The Red-Green Committee majority clearly points to the value of the work and the idealism that has engendered in the development and operation of abuse recipients. Now, when the financial responsibility is clearly placed in the specialist services, it does not mean that good existing supply is to be eliminated and that everything is to be rebuilt. I argued that it would be working actively to find good solutions in interaction between the municipalities and the specialist services and existing access points. Finally, I would like to state that the government and the Great Government are now laying a good foundation for more people in our country to live their lives free from violence and abuse. Then it's up to us all to follow up the message and make sure of the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e278	Like others, I would like to stress that it is an important big message that is being addressed here today. I am pleased with the work that the Committee has done, that there is as much as we agree on, and that will be of importance in combating violence in close relations. This has been an important theme and a priority task for the Christian People's Party. Although we are not on the committee, we have repeatedly raised it in the debates. It has been one of the areas of justice policy on which we want greater priority. That is why every year, in our alternative budgets, we have strengthened the resources of police and other fields in order to combat violence in close relations. I want to start my post talking about prevention. The key to success is, of course, to avoid that there is at all a risk of violence in close relationships, and that situations arise in which violence is used. Then family policy is a crucial key. If we are able to create a safe growth and good relations, we will also succeed within this field. A special area that the Christian People's Party has lifted lately – or throughout the period, as seen – is family protection. Family protection is what often comes first in contact with the family if it turns out that things are going wrong. This is preventive. This week we saw a look up from the South Trøndelag, where it said that there is an intake stop in the family protection office because of economics. It upsets me. In order to arrive early, to prevent when the situation has arisen and to assist in the conflicts that have arisen, it is important to avoid its development. It seems to me that the government is very concerned about prevention and early efforts when you talk, but this is an example that I think you should have done something about. The proposals of the Christian People's Party for strengthening family protection should be supported. If not, there will be another fire extinguisher instead of getting in early and fighting violence that way. Then I would like to point out, since we are not on the committee, that we have written comments from the Health and Care Committee and from the Family and Culture Committee. There we explain to many of the positions of the Christian People's Party. I also point out that another important aspect of prevention is the fight against alcohol abuse. We know that the majority of violence cases are alcohol-related, and we know that an estimated 50,000 to as many as 150 000 children grow up in homes where there is a risk of alcohol consumption. Priority is an important field. Since we are not in the committee, I refer to the comments. The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture clearly agrees with the Committee on Justice that there are many men who are subjected to violence, but at the same time we must have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We know that much of the violence in close relations needs to be seen from a woman's perspective. I am very pleased that the family and cultural committee is in fact united in many of the comments, and that a majority supports them. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased about that. One important point that I would like to make to the Minister of Justice, too, is that the Committee is very clear on the questioning of children and the serious violations of the rule of waiting when questioning children who have emerged. A joint committee says that you have to do something about it, and it's also as simple as the law says that the hearing will take place within 14 days. When you see that, for example, you know. The State Children’s House in Oslo increased from 71 days in 2011, which is initially too long, to 95 days in 2012, showing that at least one is not on the right track there. It requires a reinforced effort because here it is about children who are subjected to violence and abuse and who need to move on. That is why I am very pleased that the family committee has been so clear on that point, and I also expect the government to follow up. I also see that another issue on which the opposition is clear is the infringement recipients. Now I see the time when we have to get back to what we think about that matter, but we are at least skeptical about the proposal to merge and move the attack recipients, or the work, to the specialist health service. That is why I am going to support proposal No. 5 from the minority. We are going to support the proposals No. One, three, four, five, six, eight. I also see that there are some distributed suggestions, but I should rather come back to them later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e304	The Left joins the Committee and is very pleased that for the first time there is a large-scale communication on violence in close relations. This is an area where coordinated efforts and efforts at many levels are particularly important at the same time. Close relationships are probably one of the most difficult and also the best we humans have. It can be a private matter, but when individuals are violated, it's psychological or physical violence, it's a matter of society. It has been said a lot earlier in the debate, and I will therefore limit myself to addressing some points that are particularly important to the Left and which are partly missing in the message. It was the Left in Government, with Odd Einar Dørum as Minister of Justice, who introduced the regime of family violence coordinators in the police districts. This has been followed up, but the red-green government has not followed up well enough. All police districts are now required to have a full-time family violence coordinator, but TV 2 showed last year that many of the coordinators are assigned other tasks. I have little faith that this is because there are too few jobs. I have noticed that the government will strengthen cooperation with non-governmental organisations, among others. through «the establishment of a grant scheme, inter alia, for non-governmental organisations». That's both reasonable and good. At the same time, however, the government says that all the comprehensive measures contained in the communication should be covered within the current budgetary framework. It wasn't exactly a big deal. The left believes it is imperative to strengthen prevention efforts. In order to reduce the extent of violence and sexual violence, it is necessary to think of prevention from an early age. Better education of health sisters and a strengthening of school health services can better reach those who are at risk today and prevent events in the future. The left joins the minority's criticism of the proposal that responsibility for rape cases be transferred to the specialist health service. Dissemination of competences and resources in this way is, in our opinion, unfortunate. Knowledge is extremely important both to understand why and how violence takes place in close relationships and to give priority to the effort where it gives the most back. The Left also believes that it is necessary to strengthen research efforts on the extent and consequences of sexualised violence. Finally, I would like to say that the Left agrees with the proposals put forward in the vote. The others that have come after, we will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e328	This is an important day. For the first time, a big message about violence in close relations is being debated in this Chamber, and I am pleased that the proposals in the Communication are widely supported here in the UK. Violence in close relationships is a major social and public health problem. The government is very serious about the fact that many live in a life of violence. With this message to Stortinget, the government is offering a huge boost to the work against violence in close relations. We identify challenges and outline the lines for further work. The main challenges are to strengthen the quality of services within the existing structure and also to facilitate better cooperation and coordination. There is also a particular need to strengthen prevention efforts. We're building an understanding of violence in close relationships that calls for a so-called broad-spectrum effort. Only through a combination of criminal, gender, social and health policy instruments will we succeed in combating violence. The notification includes primarily partner violence and children who experience this violence. Let me therefore highlight some of the most important concrete measures in the Communication. We strengthen the State Children's House so that even more children get help, care and treatment. When we set up another two children's houses this year, we will have a total of ten children's houses. In addition, crews are greatly increased. Good experience with the children’s homes means that we will test a similar model for adults according to the model of the project in Malmö, which bears the name Karin, where the police and the helpers provide assistance to victims of violence in close relations in the same localities. The model shall be tested on the Stoves in Oslo. Research may indicate that routinely asking about violence has a positive effect. Therefore, procedures must be put in place to enable health professionals to ask all pregnant women whether they are exposed to violence or abuse. A new organisation of the offenders shall also be established. In order to enhance quality, the provision of children who have been subjected to abuse or sexual assault shall be anchored in the specialist health service. We will assess whether regional child abuse facilities should be set up. The offer to adult victims of abuse shall also be anchored in the specialist health service. Cooperation with voluntary organisations shall be strengthened, inter alia: by establishing a separate grant scheme for non-governmental organisations and other actors. Knowledge and competence about violence in close relationships are a prerequisite for good action. We will establish our own research programme on violence in close relationships. It says something about the weight we attach to this field when we are actually prepared to increase the research budget in the Ministry of Justice and Defence by 50 pst. in order to meet this challenge. Good prevention is an investment in the future and saves us from high human and economic costs. There is a need to strengthen prevention at all levels, but primarily primary prevention. A national prevention strategy shall be developed in cooperation with key actors in the field. The measures aimed at the perpetrator of violence are an important part of the prevention of violence in close relationships. Therefore, the provision of assistance and treatment to violence practitioners should be strengthened. I have a clear expectation that the announcement to the Stortinget will help to strengthen the work against violence in close relations. This is perhaps the most taboo part of the crime of violence that must therefore be more up and down than the case has been so far. The notification will also be followed up by a new action plan against violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e361	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e364	This is a very difficult issue we are talking about here. There are things that happen behind closed doors, in places people often connect with security and well-being. It also creates a lot of insecurity and difficult situations for children, and we want children to get out of it. My question is about parental rights. We believe that a person should be able to be deprived of his or her parental right when he or she commits a serious assault on his or her children and is convicted of it. I would like to make it clear that our – and Right – proposal says that it concerns those who have been ‘judged’ and that it concerns gross abuse. Does the Minister of Justice agree that serious abuse of their children and convictions should lead to loss of parental rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e371	I understand that a sentence for violence or abuse against my own children will already be a weighty moment in the assessment of parental responsibility, permanent residence and association. However, the assessment in each case will depend on the specific judgement of the court. We are working on an ongoing basis where, through changes in the process and the rules of procedure, we will overall raise a lower threshold in order to achieve good solutions to the issues raised by the replicator. We work systematically, with the aim of providing as secure a framework as possible around children. This is one of the areas where we focus a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e378	The removal and fragmentation of responsibilities proposed in respect of the victims of the infringement have been tested before. It was then returned to the primary health service, because it had no status or was interested in, for example. among gynecologists, doing the job. During consultation with the Justice Committee, the Medical Association, on questions from some of us, considered that the specialist healthcare service was now, if possible, even less able to do the job they were not able to do before. What does the government know about the specialist health service now, which makes them disagree with the Medical Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e383	For a long time, there have been uncertainties about the responsibility for setting up and financing the victims. I record that the Right promises to reverse the model that the government is now introducing. They do this after an evaluation — which took place in 2012 — showed that there are considerable variations in both the content and quality of the service provided. It's about differences over the course of the day, and it's about different offers around the country. This cannot continue. I am glad that with the new anchoring in the specialist health service we get a clear model. However, I am not looking to destroy the possibility of continuing with the model that works well in some infringement cases. It may be agreed separately. We must ensure a good, nationwide offer and the best possible investigation of criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e394	As I was inside in my post, the Christian People's Party has been busy with the long wait for the trial of children. I know that the Council of State is concerned about the same thing. As I said, one sees that in e.g. Oslo's waiting time has risen significantly in the last year. One also sees that the average waiting time in the country is well above the waiting time that the law says is acceptable, i.e. 14 days. Much of this is because you're going to get the most truthful interrogation, and of course the kids are going to be able to move forward after traumatic experiences. My frustration is really just that it's taken a long time. This is a theme that has been a lot on the agenda over time. Nevertheless, you can see that in some police districts, e.g. in Oslo, has gone the other way. Instead of waiting time having fallen, it has become longer. Why has the government failed to bring down the waiting time? What will the Council of State do to reduce the waiting time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e401	We all agree that the waiting time that has been reported, from 2012, could not continue. Therefore, this Communication contains a number of concrete measures. So we're not waiting, for example. the budget for 2014. We are not least strengthening the efforts at the children's home here in Oslo. With the creation of a separate children's home in Sandefjord, we address the challenges in the eastern region in a completely different way. The children's home in Oslo gets more than doubled its resources in the current year. Oslo police districts have also joined new posts — have increased competence by adding more trained people. So it's a combination of immediate action and long-term action. We need to reduce waiting time, and we need to contribute to even better support and solutions around children in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e410	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e415	I join all those who have said that this is an important day in Stortinget. We are debating and we are going to adopt a big message that is the first of its kind. It points to important measures that we as a society must take to help vulnerable and often displaced people — children, young people and adults, both women and men — who are victims of abuse and violence, with a particular focus on the violence taking place in close relationships. Norway has international obligations to combat violence that affects individuals and groups differently. We know that we need to strengthen our competence in this field, and that we need to have an even greater focus on prevention and early intervention. Work on violence must take place across sectors, and much of both prevention and treatment is taking place in the health sector. The challenge is to have good competence across the country, both in primary and specialist healthcare. We have to have both levels with when we're going to go into this, often difficult, field. I am particularly pleased that the government has announced a large-scale commitment to the health care and school health service. The best starting point here is to make early efforts by detecting alarming conditions, for example: in families, and also carry out good preventive and informative health work. We have a special focus in this message on the attack recipients. There is an offer in healthcare that has worked well in many places, but we know that elsewhere it has not been as successful. I am pleased that the message addresses this, that it is recognised that both the local health service and the specialist health service must be involved in this work, and that the targeted development of competences is being added at both levels. Medical, regular, health care and specialist health services need up-to-date knowledge of violence and abuse and what this results from ill health – in a broad sense – for those who are exposed. I believe that the clean-up that is now being done in both the organisation, the division of responsibilities and the financing will be able to strengthen the abusers and make them better able to meet and care for victims of abuse and violence. So I want to say that it is important that we have adequate forensic resources and good competence in this work. It is often crucial in violent and criminal proceedings, even when in close relations, that we can do the necessary forensic research early on. The message underlines this by pointing to the need to establish wider forensic competence networks. In this context, I would also like to point out the importance that the Institute of Public Health, which is responsible for the Institute of Forensics, and the Judicial Genetics Centre in Tromsø, cooperate on the tasks, as the Stortinge provided for in the treatment of the State budget last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e428	When I am not happy to meet as a representative in Stortinget, I work as a police officer in Bergen. Therefore, in the debate on violence in close relations, it becomes natural for me to take the floor. The words that are said, and the decisions taken in this Chamber, will be my and my colleagues' working tools in this kind of matter. The message is essentially a very good tool for us. On the other hand, the Storting Communication takes early on the assumption that violence in close relationships is the cause, expression and consequence of gender inequality. At the same time, the report refers to research from Sweden and Canada, which shows that violence in gender equality occurs twice as often as in heterophilic conditions. This is a country with which we can compare to a great deal, and it shows that there are other factors than gender equality that are the cause. Gender equality in Norway has made Norway the prosperity nation we see today, and will be the solution to many of the societal problems we have and will have. Therefore, I believe it is important that it is not used in response to everything, but is reserved for the times when it is appropriate to highlight it as a solution. The day we have full equality, I think we're still going to struggle with violence in close relationships in society. On the assignment I've been to where family members and partners have committed violence, there is often a lack of impulse control, intoxication, and absence of mastery feeling in the perpetrators who go back. In general, there is an approximation of gender equality. In 2005, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg passed a new penal code. It takes into account the complexity and the nuances that are in these kinds of cases. Paragraph 219 of the penal code of the day is divided into two new paragraphs, the severity of which separates the two. It could provide us with a clearer picture of the extent of this problem in Norway, and it could also give this type of case and the most serious cases the attention and seriousness they deserve. Unfortunately, the nuanced penal code will not be applied until the government's voteable treatment of the police's ICT systems comes to an end. The new penal code is waiting for the government to take responsibility and show commitment to insert the police into the digital age we've come into. If we do not act quickly, we are at risk of not being able to apply new criminal law until 2017. Then the new penal code will be 12 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e443	It's a brand day for Stortinget today, because we have to deal with a big message that really addresses a big problem, and where the Stortinget manages to gather around the all, most of the questions in dealing with that problem in a good way. There are children and adults in an extremely vulnerable situation we are now laying the foundation for helping. Although we agree on a lot, there's probably one point in particular where we have different visions. It's probably the most vulnerable phase of an assault, the time immediately afterwards. You are now faced with a so-called roadside separation with regard to the routes to be chosen by the offender. If there is something a subject does not need, there is a need to be in doubt about where to turn in such a situation. Until today it has been a very simple answer. It's the attack receiver, the dot. So now you have to make a choice: where do I belong in my situation, which is difficult enough from before? From the Right, we ask for clarification and justification on why this distinction is being made, where adults who are exposed to so-called relative violence are going to seek out municipal health services, while adults and children who have other types of problem drug abuse are going to visit specialist health services. What about the adults who have both problems, where are they going to go? There may be questions that we who experience a safe everyday life can theorize, but that can be important and difficult to balance for those who are in the middle of it. We don't have to lay the groundwork for this fragmentation. The principle of the lowest effective level of care should apply in these cases as in all other cases. I await so far the debate and a clarification from the red-green of why this division is being made. Finally, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, I would like to say that we support that proposal No. 3 is transmitted to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e457	Those who are looking for the definition of violence that occurs behind closed doors will come back empty-handed. The human interaction, or lack of such interaction, is very difficult and not least disrespectful to press into a formula that intends to make it more difficult to understand. Definitions tend to create a limit to hiding behind, in confidence that violence applies to the others and not to us. So definitions are going to be a defense rather than a useful description of a particular type of human behavior. I remember that my mother in my childhood had volunteer night shifts for those who lived with relative violence. She traveled from the farm while I could sleep safely at home. Today, I am a proud daughter and a big-time politician who has seen just what early action meant, the crucial importance of early action for these women who lived with violent men. Violence can be difficult to define, but it can always be described. That's why; tribute to this big message that addresses a very difficult and vulnerable topic, just violence in close relationships. There are many good descriptions and intentions in the message, and the Christian People's Party fully agrees that healthcare plays a crucial role in preventing, detecting and treating injuries caused by violence in close relationships. As the government writes, it is about care, psychosocial follow-up and more traditional treatment, both for children, young people and adults. Here, the offenders play an important role and have done so for a long time, where employees with great commitment and care have been there for their users or patients. That is why the Christian People's Party is responding to the government's move to spread responsibility for adults exposed to sexual violence and sexual abuse in addition to multiple instances. This is a setback for the current state of health of these people who are exposed to violence and sexual assault, just in. I hope today can make the government think a little differently, because – as you said at the NRK – it takes a clean eye to see why you come with a blue road again. The trained eye we have to take care of, and the trained eye exists today – let's not spread it across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e470	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman for a very good work, and also for a good cooperation, as this matter has been within several committees. Work against violence in close relationships is a work that is very important for the Labour Party, and early effort is not just empty words. That's what I mean, for example. The government's child-restraint promise is a good example. We started in 2010 with an important resource promise for the municipalities in their free incomes, we followed up in 2011, 2012 and 2013 with ear-marked funds for municipal child protection. There are 850 new settings for this municipality. We see that the efforts made for child protection have produced results. Never before have more people been helped by child protection, and we see a positive development. We know that postponing children who get help at an early stage has better intentions to survive later in life. We also say in the context of the Child Protection Communication that a good growth not only lasts for life but for generations. The work we do in this message about selected in close relationships, in the child protection message and in the message about future child care needs to be viewed in a context. I think this shows that the government is very offensive when it concerns the political area that is about our very least. I would also like to refer to the Committee's comments on a reference to the Child Protection Communication, which now proposes to introduce an overarching destination into the Child Protection Act, where one underlines the right of children to participate. I would also like to highlight this because there has been an important and strong desire from the National Children's Protection Association. We need good and robust child-resistance services, and this is also pointed out in the Committee's comments. In 2008, 83 municipalities joined in inter-municipal cooperation in the country. At the end of 2012, there were 183 municipalities – a very positive development – and a very large number of other municipalities now say that they consider that they are involved in intercommunal cooperation. We know that it is important to have a wider community, more hafile services and better access to the necessary skills and actions. I therefore fully agree with the majority in the committee that this is crucial in order to strengthen the competence among others. of the vald and the encroachment. I will end by taking note of the interaction between the services and that it is extremely important to be able to strengthen the work against power in close relationships. The rather brutal knowledge we have today, among other things. after Christoffer-saka, shows us how fatally wrong it can be when the services don't cooperate, when the competence doesn't extend, and when people who should have seen don't see. We can't afford such events to happen again. That is why I am very pleased with this message. I was supposed to wish there were more people in the press room today. I thought it was a pity that things like this were not too observant.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e485	As many people have said, we all want to welcome this big message, because it focuses on something we all want to do with, and for which we all have zero tolerance. The nice thing is that we get focus on this, but we believe that the government is a little bit concrete in its actions. I started counting the number of times the words ‘appraise’, ‘request’ and ‘contribute’ have been used here and have come out of the count, but we can hope now that there is enough action behind what is decided on in this case, so that we can really see a change. But where you're a little bit more concrete, you're facing opposition from the trade unions, and that's especially what many people have been talking about here today, namely the abuse recipients. We heard from the NRK today that Professor of General Medicine, Steinar Hunskår, says that he is now afraid that the victims are not being properly cared for with the proposal that has been resolved. General practitioners working on this are now afraid that those who have been assaulted will become a number in the order of an emergency reception. Intervention recipients should be a low-threshold service where help and competence are to be provided at one and the same location. It's a fact, and it's also stated in the message, that very many people who are exposed to violence in close relationships travel back to the outsiders. Many people don't want to tell us about the assault either. I read in Stavanger Evening magazine about two experienced superiors, who works at one of the intruders, who says that a person who visits the medical guard with a broken arm may end up being examined for several hours by a multidisciplinary team if he is injured as a result of abuse or assault. We are doubtful that a medical officer or an intern has this capacity on short notice. We believe that the abuse recipients need to be continued and strengthened, and that this is an important tool in order to provide a comprehensive and targeted offer to those concerned. At an attack reception, you can get short notice and get skilled help in a specialised professional environment that ensures evidence and provides mental support to the victim. We read that you want to provide enough money to get enough skills to do this fragmentation. We've heard that before, and we're not sure that's going to happen. We see that this proposal meets with a lot of criticism, and we think it is especially that the majority parties in this case will not listen to the professional environments. The only thing I can see is that the Minister of Justice boasts of the message and says that we are now getting a solid and durable model. Based on the reactions that have come, we're uncertain whether this model is particularly suitable, but here we're talking to deaf ears. I also do not understand the SV's representative who says that where the competence is, we are going to build it further. Then he should support the proposal to continue these environments. Then I hear the case rapporteur say that she now wants this problem out of the private room and into the public arena. We agree on that, and I'm sure the message will help lead to that. But we might think it's a slight setback if the result of this is that assault victims are referred to a line at the doctor's office or a future hour at their firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e498	Who can ever forget little Christoffer's reply to his grandmother when she asked what had happened to him: "I think you understand that sail," was the answer from him, but the grandmother didn't realize it until it was too late. The cancellation message we are handling today has the sub-title It's about living. Christoffer was no more than eight years, and we can honor his memory by doing all we can to prevent more people from suffering the same fate as him. The cancellation message provides a good basis for that. «A lot would have been different if someone had seen me» was a statement in a very good article in the Evening Post on Saturday on today's topic. The words belong to Ruzzel Abueg, who was eventually given help, and who today shares his experience and knowledge through his involvement in the National Children's Protection Association, so that we will be better able to see. And who are we? It could be kindergarten, school, neighbors, but not least me and you. Then I think, unfortunately, that there are too many adults who should have seen, but don't want to see. That's why I want to tell my story from the pulpit here today. I am one of the many who looked away, when a few years ago I discovered that I was a neighbor to a family where things weren't the way it was supposed to be. I saw it, but I didn't want to see it. I heard it, but I didn't want to hear it. What did I see and hear? There were fights, crying, a couple of sad and crying baby eyes. I saw a mother who had it hurt, and who looked away when we met. It probably went over, was my hope, but it didn't go over. And fortunately – to say it like that: the next time we heard the screams and the noise combined with a cry for help, we got enough. We did not leave the house for peace, but we knocked on our neighbor's door in hopes of creating peace. We went from being passive – from sitting and hearing things happen – to telling the neighbors that we care. It went well with mother and children; they got help. My story is no heroic story, on the contrary, because I should have done something before. But my lesson and my message is that my and your commitment can make a difference. The government shows through this message that we take seriously the problem of violence in close relationships. One of many measures is the tightening of the take-off obligation that we have an obligation to notify. I would also like to mention the amendment of the penal code that sanctions the reverse alarm of violence, which is an important measure to protect people who are subjected to violence, or threats of violence from existing or former partners in society. We then deprive the freedom of movement of violent perpetrators and not of the freedom of movement of the victim of violence, as has been practised before. I would like to pay tribute to the government that is very clear in this communication that we are going to fight violence in close relations with prevention at the earliest possible time, and with knowledge and competence on the theme in order to implement good preventive measures. If we succeed in that, we'll be able to understand and act the next time we hear the words, "I think you'll understand it."
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e515	You come home, you close the door behind you, you're inside the house's four walls, and that's where you're going to be safe. No, this is exactly where you're not safe. Many children, women and men are subjected to physical and mental violence by their closest people every day all over the world. In the last period, I was on the Justice Committee. Then we had a delegation from Hungary here. Cross-political from Norway, we said that we would address the issue of violence in close relations. The response we got: this is private. The politicians have nothing to do with this. In Norway, however, politicians have thanked them. Not least, former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget made a very good effort to put violence in close relations on the agenda and get this to be a good work in the government. Minister of Justice Faremo has now followed up and presented the fifth action plan, and today we are dealing with the very first big deal on this issue. How can municipalities contribute to this work? In a survey where the municipalities were asked about violence in close relations in their municipality, there were some municipalities that replied: there is no one in my municipality. It exists in all municipalities, in all communities. The municipalities are responsible for the crisis centres. In 2010 there was a statutory task. The municipalities have to pay 100 pst. the financing of crisis centres. In tough budget negotiations, I have seen some municipalities, given the regulatory crisis centres, trying to find good solutions by cooperating with other municipalities. It may be okay somewhere to cooperate, but if there's too long distances, it's not a good solution. I'm from Voss and there they discussed working with the crisis centre in Bergen, which is 12 miles away. If there are children involved and they are to be in Bergen for periods, it is difficult to maintain both leisure activities and school. I think it must be a closeness, so that life can go on as much as possible normal for the children. The government has set up a guide to create a municipal action plan on violence in close relations. It's to give the victims a complete and organized offer. The action plans and getting more trade unions to work together are very important. The experience from these plans is good – Drammen, for example, has made a good plan. What's important is that those in the plan get ownership of it. That includes child protection, crisis centres, asylum recipients, schools, health sisters, police, municipal doctors, and Nav. Then they get ownership – you make the responsibility clear – and they get to the goal of the work. Beating his wife and working with mental terror is not a private matter. It is a criminal offence, and it is public responsibility to have the perpetrators prosecuted and convicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e534	Only the term “violence in close relationships” hurts to think about. This is hidden violence that affects women and children to a large extent. All violence is different variants of assault, and that it is practiced by a close person, makes it double painful. Very many of those who are subjected to violence end up in crisis centres. Norwegian crisis centres were started in the 1970s, often at the hands of women based on female solidarity. Subsequently, the crisis centres were partly financed by State and local government grants and, from 1 January 2010, the provision of crisis centres was required by law. Many municipalities work together with other municipalities. The grant is now included in the framework transfers from the state, and the municipalities have now taken care of the responsibility under law. In my own county, Finnmark, very many of those who live in crisis centres for a short or longer time, foreign women are married to Norwegian men. The dream of a better life became too many a nightmare. The overrepresentation of foreigners in our crisis centres is a shameful proof of the attitudes that need to be combated. But it's not just in Finnmark the foreigners are overrepresented. The same applies throughout the country. This is totally unacceptable, and fortunately, Norwegian society is not tolerant of violence in close relations. Some of the Norwegian values are gender equality, tolerance and respect. If these values are met, we are well on our way to fighting violence in close relationships. Here we can all help to be vigilant against the attitudes that contribute to violence. The role of municipalities must not only be limited to ensuring that places are available at the crisis centres. Municipalities must dry up to take up what is happening within the four walls of the house; they must have an active attitude to combat private violence, too, they must think of prevention, and not least they must provide sound child protection services. There should be an offer for victims of violence in our crisis centres, but the best offer to our citizens is that these places are not needed and that they are not in use. It might look like there's still a little bit of a way there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e547	This has been a good debate. I think one of the most important things that has been said here today is the representative Simensen talked about, that very many look away. A lot of people do it, but not just individuals do it, there are actually a lot of people who are employed to help others, who still do it. It's about the willingness to see, and it's not least about the attitude towards people who may have been subjected to violence or abuse. A person I know very well has just been given access to his child protection file. At an adult age, she reads about how child protection failed in the field after field – almost 50 concerns were sent from school, neighbor and police; she even asked to be moved away from her family, but nothing happened. The interesting thing is that the same person has met child protection in modern times, after having had a child himself. Then the child protection was in place to take the kid away from her. Then you could say that there were probably good reasons for it based on her childhood. But the interesting thing was to be in some of those meetings and see that people who are employed to help people and to do something for children, seemed like they actually couldn't do much about children at all. It's a strong claim, but I really have to say -- I'm not going to have a child myself, I think it might as well -- that if those people knew more about children than me, they should have their diploma taken down from the wall right away. When we talk about competence and the need for change, I'll say a few words about men who are subjected to violence. If you do a Google search for violence against women, you naturally get thousands of hits. If you apply for violence against men, you actually get the same encounters – violence against women – or you get a lot of jokes. When a man stood up in the paper and told him that he had been subjected to a rape by a woman, it was quite bad to read the comment fields, for the attitude was then that the man – he is a typical man – should only be happy that he got something. That's what I think I say quite a lot about the attitudes that are to gender the other way, that men are exclusively sexual beings who are really going to find themselves in anything, and that really can't be seen as victims. At a conference organised by the Norwegian Crisis Centre Association, as referred to in the comments, a Swedish man stood up and told about his experiences. He first received help after he himself said that he struck the woman. All the neighbors thought he was the one who beat his wife, because they heard trouble, and they looked ugly at him. But she was the one who hit him. Only when he was put in prison and got rest from her did he have the opportunity after a while to get help, when at last someone realized that he was the victim. In conclusion, the range developed by the Committee in terms of the need for skills enhancement is not least relevant in the view of gender – who is superior and who is vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e562	Thank you to the representatives of the Stortinge who have taken part in this debate. It is also good to see that there are many from different committees participating. It shows that this needs a multidisciplinary focus. An overall opposition is critical to the waiting time for child referee hearings. I agree, it's too long to wait for a child to walk 100 days before being questioned about a serious incident in his life – 100 days for a child is a long time. Therefore, the government has also granted money to two new children's homes, more than doubled the number of jobs in Oslo, and there will be a new floor in Oslo. It'll probably help with this. In addition, a system has also been put in place to train more police officers to gain knowledge of child questioning so that they can take a greater part of this. Then we'll probably get the waiting time down. Today’s debate has largely focused on the abuse recipients and their reorganization. I would like to stress that in larger municipalities, problems should be seen in the context – what is currently being taken care of in municipal health services, and which are to be transferred to specialist health services, should be able to interact within the same door where it is desirable. Interaction between municipalities and between municipalities and specialist health services should be ensured. It can give very good solutions. The robust municipal offenders should be continued through agreements with the specialist health service. That's what the government is up to in this organization. In this way, the established professional environments can be continued and they can be strengthened. I would like to make it clear that with the system we have today, it is not a good enough offer for those children who need an abuser. We're changing that today, with the blessing of the Children's Ombudsman. It is today that if children who are exposed to sexual assault come to an assault reception, they are referred to further. You have to be over 16 years old to be admitted to an assault facility today. So the kids have to ask themselves, where do I belong? So they're referred to further. It's the weakest ones who have to seek help elsewhere. We're straightening that out today, for the children's sake. In many places the municipal medical officer is located in a hospital. So there's going to be one place you're going to turn to about sexual violence or sexual assault, whether you're a child or an adult. If you are so violent that it feels as if your hand is broken, you should of course visit the hospital today, because it is the specialist health service that needs to take care of it. That's what I got.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e582	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e609	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e616	The government is busy making it easier for business. For this reason, we are currently addressing changes in the stock laws that would be better suited to the needs of small businesses. Several of the changes will also be incorporated into the public stock laws. Creating a limited liability company will be simpler and more flexible and fewer requirements will be imposed on documents to be drawn up in connection with the formation. Furthermore, it is now also being opened in order to enable the limited liability companies to be formed electronically. It is not long since the Storting adopted reduced capital requirements. The effect has already been shown. According to information from the NHO, more than 25 000 limited liability companies were formed last year, and there have never been more limited liability companies in Norway than it is today. But the most important thing is that it has become much less popular to start companies abroad in order not to succeed in operating in Norway – i.e. the so-called NUFs. This is one of the things. one of the reasons why the government will make the Norwegian share company form more attractive, so that Norwegian traders do not choose to establish the company according to the legislation of another country. With today's change, everyday life will become easier for existing small businesses, with fewer and more flexible rules. In addition, simplification will lead to significant savings for business. In the short time I have, I will also mention some other changes, in short form, which also have meaning. The capital regimes will be amended to allow companies to adapt their equity to their actual needs. This must of course be seen in the light of the fact that the minimum capital requirement has already been reduced. There will be more liberal rules for the processing and organisation of companies, among others. by facilitating the holding of a general meeting and by allowing companies to determine the number of members of the board of directors and the appointment of daily directors. It is the Committee's hope that the main changes will take effect on 1 July of this year. So we have a better understanding that it will take a little longer to put in place a new system of electronic staging. Let me also associate a few words with Prop. 122 L. There are changes to the laws on public publishing, so publication in the paper newspapers will stop. This does not mean that public notices will be terminated, but notices will only be published in electronic publications. This matter is simply about the government's renewal work, which saves the state from excessive expenditure. Let me also make it clear that the law of change on the proclamation will not be covered by the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e637	Important proposals for changes have been made, and we are largely satisfied, but things could of course be changed a lot earlier. I myself have been the owner of a so-called SME company, a company with six years' work, and have seen how difficult and bureaucratic the law has been. There is still a lot to be done, but technology and new flexibility will make it much easier in the bureaucratic youth. So this proposition was timely. The liberalisation of capital legislation that has now been made is only one of the simplifications that has been very positive outside. Now, with the new simplifications, it gets even better. I would like to address the proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e648	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e651	Then I can take the opportunity to explain why the representative Michaelsen brought up that proposal. After 22 July, there has been a discussion of whether the Ministry of Justice has had too wide a task portfolio. To embrace everything from asylum and immigration to police, criminal care, preparedness and not least everything related to company law and the idea that we should actually have a business life that works, at the same time, may be – no matter how good the council is or how large the department he has – too wide a task portfolio. At least one thing is certain: the things that come today, we all agree – it’s just that they should come before. The reason why I take the floor now is that we are of the opinion that the post-control of e.g. company law is too slow. In fact, business needs to change faster. I really think this matter with all manner of clarity shows that we all agree today, but that part of us has suggested many times before. It is not that it has not been possible to deliver it before, but the focus on this type of topic can be quite difficult enough in a department that has such a wide portfolio of tasks. We want a company law commission, as proposed in the proposal – as we have also suggested before – simply to ensure that we get back control as quickly as possible, and that the interest in it is real in the ministry as well. I don't think it's uninterested, but it won't necessarily be the focus like that. business demand, related to faster regulatory changes. I remember a lot of debates on NUFs, etc. from the previous committee, where some of the arguments, which were probably all right, were used, but that is the opposite arguments that are now being used. I think the debate you had at the time was that the department was in arrears when it came to seeing the needs for faster regulatory changes. I hope that you can snuff out to support the Right and the Progress Party's proposal for such a Commission, simply because it will be in everyone's interest, not least in the interests of business – and the small and medium-sized enterprises, as Åse Michaelsen pointed out – that you will have a much better and much faster enforcement capacity associated with the kind of legislative change that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e666	There are around 240 000 limited liability companies registered in Norway, and the form of the limited liability company is the most used form of enterprise. It is therefore of major importance for Norwegian industry that the legislation ensures good framework conditions for limited liability companies. Today, we are completing a legal work that will entail significant simplifications for the limited liability companies. The government has set ambitious targets for business simplification. The aim is to reduce business administrative costs by 10 billion. kr by the end of 2015, and we have focused in particular on SMEs. The share capital requirement was already reduced to NOK 30000 in 2011. Then we also introduced an access to non-audit. Together with the legislative proposal under consideration today, we make important contributions to improving the framework conditions for Norwegian limited liability companies. Last year, the number of newly registered limited liability companies increased by 67 pst. compared to 2011, while the corresponding figure for NUFs showed a reduction of 58 pst. The Share Act regulates a wide range of companies. The law must take more and, in part, conflicting into account. It is a law of private law that regulates the relationship between private actors. Therefore, the objective cannot be to abolish as many rules as possible or to reduce anything that recalls obligations or burdens. The economy is best served by the fact that a limited company is maintained as a serious form of company in which business operators can be trusted, and I believe that the draft law that Stortinget is dealing with today balances these considerations in a good way. The rules are becoming more flexible, and practical solutions to meet the needs of companies are being made more readily available. The law will continue to safeguard the various interests of the company, such as: to creditors, minority shareholders and employees. I also put great emphasis on the social rights of employees. The rights of employees are respected regardless of the size of the company. Being employed in own limited liability companies rather than, for example: in a NUF provides greater security for the private economy if anything happens. Simplification is thus also an important asset for welfare policy. The legislative proposal will lead to important simplifications for public limited liability companies. The economy is waiting for the changes. I therefore want the amendments to come into force as soon as possible. I aim to see that the main changes will come into force as early as 1 July of this year. I am pleased that a joint committee agrees with the proposal to repeal the requirements of the notice legislation in paper newspapers. This is a forward-looking measure that will bring great savings to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e683	Simplification is a very important tool to improve the competitiveness of businesses. It's also very important for the public sector. At the same time, we need to find the balance here between the necessary reporting, which we need to keep, and unnecessary double reporting. The former NHO director, John G. Bernander, referred to the loss of the audit obligation for small companies as «time simplification measures». I'm very united. The simplification target of 10 billion. kr by 2015 is very ambitious, but we see that we are well on the way to reaching maybe half of the simplification goal during this year. I visit a number of companies every year, and simplification is a recurring theme. With the measures we are taking here today, we have taken a new step in the right direction. This fact that we have now reduced the establishment of the NUFs, I think it is very positive, because if the Norwegian share company form is not so attractive that Norwegian traders are well placed to establish a company according to another state's legislation, the Norwegian share law loses its meaning. Norwegian politicians will then also be given less control over the company law rules under which Norwegian traders are to be subject. Now it is easier for the individual trader to create an AS than a NUF, because one can adhere to Norwegian rules, Norwegian languages and Norwegian authorities, etc. In addition, the emergence of the NUFs includes a number of legal and practical problem options, including: in the event of bankruptcy. I am therefore very pleased that figures from the Register of Stock Exchanges show that the delay in the requirement for share capital, which led to the effect on 1 January 2012, has led to a clear decrease in the number of new NUFs. The second big grab we're doing here today is for electronic signing. There is a demand around the companies, and I am very happy that the government also delivers at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e698	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e712	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e719	This law is a mixture of completely curative things that a unanimous committee stands behind, and some things that the Right Party and the Advance Party cannot join. In addition, the Committee on Legal Affairs has become familiar with some important input from the National Institute for Human Rights that is not reflected in the position but I would like to briefly mention during the debate. A unanimous committee considers it important that criminal services should be exempted from professional secrecy equivalent to that of the police and prosecution authorities, in order to know the contractual secret telephone number of a person, in order to have him called for compensation. That's right, the police had until 2010, when it was the police and not the criminal services themselves who called for compensation. These are absolutely necessary changes that can improve the effectiveness of criminal justice. It is good that the Ministry has taken proper privacy considerations, based on recordings in the consultation round. As regards the proposal for direct transfer to the transitional dwelling, there are shared opinions on it. I leave to the next speaker to justify why the majority goes for it. The minority, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party share the Riksadvokat's vision. He points out that this goes beyond what was foreseen in St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008. In our opinion, such a use of transitional housing violates the basic principles of punishment and preventive considerations. Several of the criminal services regions point out that the proposal has implications for the practice of progress in the settlement and the possibility of custodial sentences in society after a longer stay in prison. The basic idea behind the transitional dwellings and that changing their use could take place from long-term zones means that the Progress Party and the Right do not support the proposal presented at this point. Then there's an incursion in the setting. The Right Party and the Advance Party shall vote against Section 11 new fifth paragraph. It states that the Committee supports the proposal and the reasons for it. We are fully aware of this, but not where it is stated on page 5 that the proposal is supported. There'll be a lot of sanctuary on top of it. In addition, the Right Party and the Advance Party oppose the repeal of the Penal Code § 42, sixth paragraph. I'm going to leave Michaelsen to the representative to explain why we're against this. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee received a call from the National Institute for Human Rights. There is a lack of legal certainty and the use of isolation against prisoners in prison. They have come across quite a criticism of § 37 of the bill, a lack of investigation of this, and believe that there has been too bad a consultation process. They say to the committee that the proposal must be said to be a hidden weakening of prisoners' rights, and that it should have been investigated more, in the light of our international obligations. The Committee is aware that there has been a dialogue between the National Institute for Human Rights and the Ministry on these issues, as well as on the lack of statistics on the use of insulation since 1998–99, without so much happening. I would ask the Council of State to comment on how she will act in view of the criticism that has come to the end of the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e736	The issue now under consideration and debate concerns several changes to the criminal law, the criminal procedure law and the criminal enforcement law. The Government Parties support the proposals submitted. I will not comment on all the proposals, but will concentrate on the two proposals on which the Committee disagrees. In St. Report. No 37 for 2007–08 It is recognised that, if appropriate and not at the expense of security, the penalised zone in low-level prisons is to be penalised. This is to prevent problems after release and thus reduce relapses into new crime. The first proposal on which there is disagreement is the possibility of bringing a sentence with a judge of up to one year directly into the transitional residence. A transitional residence is by definition a prison. In transitional dwellings, the normality principle is central. Prisoners receive housing, training and development of social skills, opportunities for schooling and work, and for maintaining contact with family and other networks. All of this we know is important for the best possible return to a life without a new crime after an end of atonement. Nevertheless, it is emphasised that the regime under atone is strict. If convictions do not comply with this, he or she may be admitted to prison with a more stringent level of security. The Justice Committee was recently visiting the transitional residence in Bodø. What we got to see and hear there, reinforces the belief of the government parties that temporary settlements contribute to a reduced relapse into new crime, which will benefit both society and individuals. The second proposal on which there is disagreement is the repeal of Section 42, sixth paragraph of the Penal Code. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that non-residents should not be subject to probation without being part of a settlement transfer. It is worth noting that the amendment of the law is measures to bring the wording of the Penal Code into line with current practice and to bring it into line with Article 5 of the ECHR on the right to freedom. This is a matter that the Ombudsman has also committed himself to. The legislative changes will not entail changes in procedures for the management of probation and the effectiveness of expulsion decisions. If the general conditions for parole are met, foreign prisoners shall be released from probation unless there is a basis for imprisonment under the Foreign Affairs Act or for release from custody. Good police-criminal cooperation procedures have been established to ensure coordination of transport and parole. These procedures will, of course, be maintained even after this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e762	Some of the changes that are now being proposed, we agree, others we are more sceptical about. But it's important that we're willing to try, and then evaluate whether this works. In particular, there are changes concerning the increased use of criminal offences in prisons with a lower level of security. We disagree with the increased possibility of direct transfer to the temporary residence. The principle of zoning the entire sentence is initially established at the Progress Party. In principle, greater emphasis should be placed on the good work done by private organisations, after-sales protection and the strengthening of criminal protection in freedom, as this is the key to mastering a new life after reconciliation. We do not support the repeal of Section 42, sixth paragraph of the Penal Code, nor do we support Section 11 of the fifth paragraph. It is important that foreign criminals who punish Norway are immediately expelled when the settlement is completed. In our opinion, if a foreign national is to be prosecuted before the whole sentence is completed, it must continue to be subject to expulsion from the country. The Right Party and the Progressive Party consider that prisoners with foreign citizenship should not be released until the whole sentence is served, provided that this is not part of a settlement transfer agreement with another country. It is also the case that there are people who are not to be integrated into Norwegian society, and they must therefore zone the whole sentence imposed completely without leave of absence or parole. Prisoners with such a background shall zone in their own units of criminal custody which have only foreign prisoners and are to be expelled after the end of their term of office. In fact, dropping this group of prisoners into Norwegian society on parole is a risk project that will lead to more crime. I would like to point out that today there are thousands of foreign criminals who are out in society without the authorities having control of where they are, where they live, what they are doing, or whether they are still in the country at all. We're assuming that there's a number of approx. 30000 in Norway today living in a so-called ‘parallel society’. During the period in question, the Norwegian authorities must carry out a thorough work aimed at their home country in order to establish an agreement on receipt at the end of the sentence. As I said, it's part of these areas that's important, and on some of them, I think we've just seen the beginning of the changes. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party follow this area with their argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e773	We're going with this up St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008. We focus in particular on improving the provision of housing for sentences under 18 years of age and also on greater differentiation of the provision of housing in prisons. Transitional dwellings are currently being used as an end-of-life measure to facilitate the transition from settlement in prison to release. However, the government believes that some jurisdictions should start the settlement in transitional dwellings, where the drilling and development of social skills is a central part of the business. This will be particularly important for young people, but also for other prisoners with special needs. The development of more serious prison clientele and more serious, including organised crime, has also led to the need for increased access to move prisoners between prisons. This could be done, for example, by: be unlucky if convictions from the same criminal case are in the same prison. The Proposition also contains a bill to facilitate the transfer of prisoners to another prison in order to ensure the respect of members of the criminal justice system. This type of movement may, for example: be relevant when there is a close relationship between the addition and insertion, and where the consideration of the stability and professionality indicates that the prisoner cannot zone where a concrete addition works. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right oppose the proposal for direct entry into transitional accommodation. They believe that this will break with the principles behind the punishment and preventive considerations, and prevent the progression in the compensation of long-term sons. Here I would like to stress that the direct deployment of temporary housing will only take place after a thorough safety assessment and that criminal services will facilitate adequate provision for long-term zones. The representative Oktay Dahl referred to a letter that I can't say on the standing foot is known to the council, but it's natural that I check out in the department, that we're making an assessment, and that I'm looking for a suitable way for feedback to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e788	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e802	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e816	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e830	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 24 minutes and allocated by up to 3 minutes to each party and up to 3 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e837	This proposal for a representative, on measures to combat modern slavery, addresses an important issue. The issue has been debated several times in the period, and the latter in conjunction with three interviews last April. This shows that we are taking the problem seriously. For the red-green government, concrete measures to combat trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of other people have been important. The size decided what we often call sex buying laws, in 2008, to reduce demand by making it illegal and thus harder to get sex, but not least too clearly to stress that we don't think it's right to buy other people in this way. The law has both a criminal law and a normative side. The Committee points out that, in addition to legal regulation, social measures are needed to help victims of trafficking in human beings. Current measures may include housing, drug treatment, etc. As we have debated the topic as recently as we have, I will refer to the debate and the comments we had in those matters as well. I would like to thank the proposers for including an important theme. I'm sure all the parties will continue to work on this theme – I encourage everyone about it. We now see that there are increasingly people from other countries who are exploiting other people and who are thinking roughly about forcing others into prostitution, stealing, selling drugs, etc. This is a problem that we have to take very seriously in the future. It's not going to happen in Norway in the modern society that we should want it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e848	The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party shows that we all, regardless of party, have these challenges high on the agenda. As the rapporteur said, only in the last few months have we had three interviews on the same topic. So we all agree with the challenges, but we have a little bit of different solutions to how we're going to do it. I didn't intend to go into the different suggestions here, but I'm going to take some of them that are promoted by us. We're still against the Sex Purchases Act. Measures other than prohibitions need to be looked at, precisely to help those who involuntarily have to prostitute themselves. We have mentioned this before, we have to follow the cash flow in and out of Norway much stronger. That is why we are promoting two proposals that are directly linked to this, both on currency transactions and on currency dogs. In terms of prostitution and drug dependence, targeted work is needed to create more detoxification units. In addition, strong follow-up is needed over a long period of time to get people out of the environment. It is also a challenge not everyone will take on board that many minor asylum seekers are exposed to trafficking. So how can we protect them as best we can? We are promoting a proposal for closed-ended enhanced reception, which gets full control of who is making contact and who can help and identify the individual's needs, and help to protect these children and not be lured or threatened into misery. Unfortunately, we alone are on this proposal for the time being. The need for a much more stringent border ID check in case of suspicion of trafficking in human beings must also be put in place. More and better resources need to be deployed, as the limit is the last chance towards Norway. I note that the Christian People's Party has not promoted the proposals in the Chamber. They're not on our table either. That's what I think is sad – there were a lot of good proposals there, especially proposal No. 6 in the document, which is very important. We hope that this proposal will come back as soon as possible. Otherwise I'll take up all the suggestions that we're alone about, and those that we're with the Right about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e863	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e866	I agree with the latter speaker. With regard to that proposal, I would like to make sure that it will be part of a possible government debate as soon as we win the election. But when that's said, the most important thing we do when we're discussing modern slavery is to see that it's more than what I think was the narrow starting point for the three almost similar interpellations that we dealt with in April, which were almost exclusively about forced prostitution. If we commit ourselves to everything that's about prostitution, we don't have the ability to see the breadth of all the human trafficking that's going on, because you kind of have the Lily 4-ever glasses on. Slavery is much more, and only imagination really sets limits on how raw and cynical backmen and back women can use, and help to use, another person's body over and over again. Not least, police, customs, auxiliaries and other abilities need to see that what appears to be a criminal at first sight, so much so that it can be a victim of human trafficking. And not least, the question of slavery needs to be discussed by far more than the somewhat narrow circle of justice politicians and a little bit of particular interest, preferably women, who often do. Slavery takes place in all sectors, and those who are usually concerned with, for example: The business environment and its nature also need to ask questions about whether the issues they discuss have anything to do with trafficking in human beings when they discuss them. We also have to ask ourselves in the future the question of whether the reflection period is working properly at all, and that the length of it is not going to be a sleeping cushion. In order to get a force on everything and put it all the more into the system, I hope that the government parties will be able to support our proposal for a separate national rapporteur, to whom the Right proposed funds in the consideration of the revised national budget. If not, I hope and believe it is something that a new bourgeois government could quickly get in place. The seven joint proposals from the Right and the Advance Party, which are mainly support for the important initiatives of the Christian People's Party, are important proposals for improving the response to trafficking in human beings. As far as the immediate police analysis is concerned, it is important that we are sure that, after a police reform, the police will improve on combating trafficking in human beings, because the differences we see today are too great in terms of results achieved by the different districts. We are also concerned that volunteering must be strengthened and not e.g.. is threatened with cut because you may disagree with the effect of the Sex Purchases Act. The Judicial Committee shall immediately give its opinion on better witness protection. Norway must have a better regulation to ensure that witnesses to trafficking in human beings do not weaken international cooperation. Right wants anonymous witnessing to also happen in human trafficking, and, let's say so, we have great faith in, for example, that. Advocate General Bøhler was able to contribute to the unanimous opinion on such a position, without prejudging the issue. Finally, we have to follow the money, because it's the only way you can really get to do something, and it has to be harder, much harder than today, to get caught.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e881	This is a matter that had earned much more time than 3 minutes per game. Fortunately, we had a good debate and a good round when the Stortinget had three interpellations on almost the same topic. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important matter that we want to raise, and therefore it was also natural for us to make a number of proposals through this proposal for a representative. Our starting point is that what is often taken for granted, that slavery is over, that it is history, that something that happened a long time ago, actually does not vote, and that unfortunately there are more slaves today than ever. The anti-slavery organization Free the Slaves says that there are 27 million people living in slavery today, and that is all kinds of sectors. It's prostitution, it's begging, it's coercion, it's people being forced to do things against their will. Then I need to explain that in the event of an incurrence, the proposals in our proposal for a representative have not been tabled in the Chamber today, so unfortunately we are not given the opportunity to vote against them. But everyone sees the intention in the proposals for the Christian People's Party. We would have liked to have promoted them if it was possible, but it is unfortunately not possible now. That is an explanation to the representative of the Progress Party. Then I must thank you for the suggestions. We would be very happy to vote for them, too, of course. In addition, I would just like to say that of the proposals in the committee voting, the Christian People's Party supports everyone except proposal No. Eight. We therefore support the proposal No. 1 to 9 except paragraphs Eight. Then I need to say that for the Christian People's Party, with this initiative, it has been important to underline the breadth, as the representative Oktay Dahl was in it. At the same time, there has also been a follow-up to the Sex Purchases Act, because the Christian People's Party took the initiative and was a driver to get to the Sex Purchases Act. Already then we were crystal clear that that law will not work alone, we need more action. That's why we've been involved in social action, as one can see from the representative proposal, and we've also been busy doing something about the reflection period, so that it can work even better. There I am also pleased with the signals that came in the interpellation debate when we discussed it last time. In addition, I believe that we have a duty to do more for those who live in prostitution today. We know that very many of those who are forced to work in prostitution are victims of human trafficking. When you see today that it's so hard to get out of it, we need to put up with relief measures, so it's easier. Then we also have a desire to do something about demand and attitude change. There's the law of norms, and it's important. In addition, however, we also have an exciting proposal contained in the document, which focuses on attitudes and, for example, on the issue of the environment. introducing it as a theme in school to participate and show that slavery is something that exists today and that buying sex helps to maintain slavery. I would like to say a lot more, but at least there was a short article.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e902	The representative proposal contains 14 different proposals to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings. I feel that the background to the proposals is a strong will to develop our efforts towards modern slavery. I can assure you that the government shares this will, as our current action plan against trafficking in human beings bears the mark. There are several of the proposals that had deserved a thorough review, but as time is available, I refer to the letter from our department on 30 April with comments on the 14 proposals. It also briefed on the work being done to develop the law protecting children from abuse. Hopefully, the authors of the proposal were also reassured by the description of the current consultation round, where we gather views on a number of legislative proposals that are suitable for strengthening the protection of children. The same consultation aims to implement changes in criminal law, which allow Norway to ratify the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. This is in line with the wishes of the rapporteurs. Proposals are otherwise concerned with ensuring that training to identify victims of trafficking in human beings is provided to relevant professional groups. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right have followed up the point by promoting their own proposal for enhanced training. I would like to stress that there is a cross-political consensus on the need for skills development, as our Action Plan against trafficking in human beings for the period 2011-2014 states. Such training is therefore regular. The Coordination Unit for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings is responsible for the development of competences towards those who may face victims in their work. This applies not least to child-restraint workers and policemen. I also mention that UDI has for a long time taught its employees about trafficking in human beings. Let me also stress that I share the intention of the proposers to develop ever better measures to combat trafficking in human beings. However, as the department's response in this matter shows, there are several proposals I do not believe are suitable for helping victims of trafficking in human beings in a better way than today. The actions of our Action Plan in this area ensure concrete results through a broad and comprehensive effort in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e915	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e929	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e938	I would first like to commend the proposers for promoting the proposal and for addressing an incredibly important issue against the legal certainty of the individual. Document 8:30 L is an important input to ensure individual legal certainty against government. Governments are large and muscular in relation to individuals, whether individuals are individuals or small enterprises. As pointed out in the case, it is important and correct that the administration has the possibility of imposing penalties in some way. However, when these sanctions affect the legal certainty of individuals, there should be a ring of alarm clocks. The proposers point out – quite correctly – the challenge of the public party being the regulator, the interpretation of the rules, the ‘prosecution authority’ and referencing judges, and that this weakens the legal guarantee for those who have matters to decide in the administration. An important point made by the proposers is how easy it is to lose an individual perspective when it comes to business. The economy is easily perceived as an all-embracing and diffuse sector, but the economy is made up of individuals, owners of enterprises, employees, suppliers or others who will be affected by decisions or judgments taken by the administration. Where the proposers refer to the developments that have been up and running over the years, NOO 2003: 15 is advanced and compared to the position of the Penalty Committee 20 years earlier. Where NOU 2003:15 recommends increased use of administrative penalties, the Penal Court is completely opposed. The proposers address some specific issues, such as: the increasing use of administrative penalties and, in this context, refers both to the Brenndevinsgesetz of 1887 and the Öllaw of 1912. They also address the development of more recent times, namely parking tickets, and in this context also the charge for infringements. The proposers also refer to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which lays down requirements for both the duration of proceedings, the right to review, the right to provide evidence and protection against self-incrimination. The EMK became part of Norwegian law by the Human Rights Act of 1999 and, in the event of a conflict, goes ahead of Norwegian law. In this way, the proposers believe that the increased use of simplified proposals could be an alternative to administrative decisions with criminal content and that this would significantly enhance legal certainty. The Committee agrees with the principles of the proposal, and the Council of State, in its letter to the Committee, states that it is working on the challenges addressed in the proposal. The opposition, on its side, believes that it takes a long time, and indicates that NOU 2003: 15 was presented ten years ago and that ten years of work is somewhat long. Otherwise, the consensus in the committee is relatively large, and the proposal being promoted is that the matter is annexed to the Minutes, that the government is given time to work with it in a good way, and that it is expected that a proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e961	After the rapporteur's good presentation of the substance of the matter, I can limit myself to clarifying the background that, together with Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Ingjerd Schou, André Octay Dahl and Siri A. Meling, I have found time to discuss whether we should have better legal certainty using coercive measures when used by the administration. We are constantly being informed, through the press, by users of the law, whether individuals or small traders, that legal certainty may come into the background of a rather superior administration. I think some of the essence of this is that you ignore the other procedural guarantees you have in terms of imposing punishment. These are largely disregarded when it comes to causing discomfort to fellow citizens, even if they are not called punishment, but administrative sanctions. Getting a large fee can be equally devastating for a company, whether you call it punishment or a fee. They may have the same impact on the survival, workplaces and suppliers of the holding. The administrative sanctioning system sets lower requirements for proving guilt in the searchlight. It's a general standard of carelessness that makes it easier to prove blame, but where you also get hurt to drag people in who have actually not intended to do anything at all irregular. There's also some of the things we've been doing when we've been promoting the proposal, and we've been sitting down and making a complete bill, which in theory could have been put to work. But that's also of course meant as an illustration of what we're looking for. If developments go further in the direction of the use of administrative intervention and penalties, and thus we have a criminal administration right, then the proposers also believe that the time has come to assess whether we should have an administrative penalty process, which provides the same guarantees to those who the public believes have violated standards. We also believe that there is a problem in itself for the predictability of users and those affected by the administrative requirements in different contexts, that in one administrative area after another, different practices and practices can develop, so that citizens in their different roles experience a government that is not quite uniform. What is acceptable in one industry becomes illegal in another. We also want the administration to be forced into a consistent practice, a kind of ‘best practice’, which will apply to all state agencies, no matter what else they may do. This takes into account the need for minimum standards ensuring the same minimum legal certainty for users and those subject to these rules. We also want the administration to become more aware of the transition to ordinary criminal prosecution under the criminal law. It is not possible to get past the fact that there are some breaches of administrative rules, which are of such a nature that they should also be subject to criminal prosecution. We've also wanted to mark that transition and that all parties get a higher awareness of when you're in one field, and when you get into real criminal law. We have been pleased to note that there have been relatively welcome tones in the department's assessment of this. They say that this is a ‘valuable input to improve the current legislation’, but they also say that something has been preserved by illegal law. But just unregulated justice will be more uncertain, less predictable and not always provide legal certainty across government sectors. But we see this as a positive replay and accept that the proposal is annexed to the protocol. We expect that this was just a first discussion of a very interesting legal debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e978	Thank you to the proposers for a very interesting and important representative proposal, and thank you to the rapporteur for a good presentation. The proposers say that, and not least it is stated in clear words in the recording by the Association of Lawyers: ‘Administration is successively in excess of a substantial amount of penalties and coercive measures, which may be imposed without prior judicial review. In addition, the level appears to have been increasing in the last decades.’ Furthermore, the Association of Advocates, as the proposers do, stresses that it makes sense that: ‘parts of the monopoly of power of the State shall be exercisable outside the jurisdiction and prosecution apparatus. It is resource-efficient and also contributes to the fact that the amount of justice is not excessive. However, some of the problem lies in the fact that the consequences of the administration’s use of sanctions and coercive measures will often be as serious as the imposition of penalties.’ In addition, the Association of Advocates says: ‘Of the most serious reactions which may be imposed without legal proceedings in the courts, the imposition of a substantial amount of fees, administrative withdrawal of authorisations and loss of rights may be mentioned here.’ The involvement of the Association of Advocates is thus a clear support for the approach we also find in the proposal for a representative. These challenges are increasing, and it is precisely then both right and important that the government return to the Grand Duchy with a legislative proposal, which is based on the reflections, arguments and legislative proposals contained in the proposal for a representative, and would like to send it to the hearing in this respect. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party write sensibly – and it was underlined by Michael Tetzschner in his contribution – that it is premature, if necessary, to adopt a law based on this proposal when we know at the same time that the Ministry of Justice is working on a similar bill. This would then lead to a very wise and unanimous decision by the Committee that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes and that there would be a strong call for the Ministry of Justice to read that Annex.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1007	We'll have to believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1010	Council of State Aasrud and I agree that the proposal for a representative is a valuable input into improving existing legislation on legal certainty in the use of coercive measures by the administration. I am pleased to hear the representative Michael Tetzschner refer to the government as ‘relatively attending’. I see that as strong praise from the opposition in this hall. The proposal applies mainly to rules already deriving from non-statutory law or the European Convention on Human Rights. This Convention shall apply as Norwegian law, with precedence over other legislation, cf. Section 2 of the Human Rights Act Paragraphs 1 and 3. However, we can make the rules simpler and more accessible and thus better facilitate a consistent practice, if new provisions are made to this effect in the form of legislation. At present, there are a number of different rules on coercive measures that are not necessarily well coordinated and, if general rules on the use of coercive measures by the administration are laid down, this can contribute to increased legal certainty and better regulatory coherence. I therefore initiate a further investigation with a view to sending a proposal on the use of coercive measures by the administration at general consultation. Paragraph 10 of the proposal for a representative, on the right not to incriminate oneself, is part of the follow-up of NOU 2003: 15, from fines to improvements. Paragraphs 1 to 9 of the draft representative relate to matters which were not covered by the proposals of the public inquiry. Those parts of the draft representative should therefore be examined independently of the follow-up to the NOU from 2003 and sent to the hearing before taking a position on them. Work on the follow-up to NOU 2003: 15 has been extensive and demanding. I can still agree with those who have noticed that it has taken a long time. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has faced some unexpected challenges over the last few years, and it has unfortunately delayed the follow-up work on this NOU. I can tell you that the work on the follow-up has come very far, and it will not be long before a proposition is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1025	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1028	As has been done several times, and as the Council of State has now pointed out, the process of transforming the recommendation in NOU 2003 has been: 15, from fine to improvement, to concrete legislative proposals taken ten years. The Council of State was aware that there have been some delays in the last few years, and we understand that, but I just want to hear if the Council of State is proud of a ten-year procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1035	You can't be proud that things take too long, but it's also important to note that the proposal, as I mentioned, is mainly covered by illegal law or the European Convention on Human Rights. But it is a difficult law that I think we can simplify, and it is also right to assess whether these rules should not be regulated collectively. So, as I mentioned, new proposals have also come in. I mentioned that Sections 1 to 9 of the proposal are not covered by this NOU, and we will therefore ensure that they follow closely and take a separate consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1042	I was a little in doubt if I would do anything at all that could destroy the good mood that has arisen here in the Chamber today, because of the good letter of comment from the Department, and not least because of the statements that fell from the Minister of Justice on the follow-up to this initiative. I think it's going to be in the best sense if I ask the Council of State if it's reflecting on whether it represents a democratic problem that a lot of deep thoughts are being made, a lot of professionally heavy investigations have been made, and so they get the destiny of wintering in a departmental drawer for ten years. It looks like it's part of a larger complex even of the slightly larger problem that not only does the Stortinge not deal with investigations, but the Bill of the Stortinge is not put into practice either. For example, the Penal Code, adopted in 2005, works. not yet. I just wanted to ask the Council of State what thoughts she's thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1054	All praise is welcome, and then I have learned in a long life that it is rarely a free lunch to pick up! I have many thoughts that we have major challenges in the Ministry of Justice and Defence that we need to ensure a good prioritisation around. The follow-up to this NOU has taken a long time, but with regard to the legislation that we agree is important to get in place, I will make sure that there is a matter for the Stortinget as soon as possible. I have also made provision for proposals on criminal law to ensure the legal implementation of the rules adopted here by the Storting for some years ago. The technological challenge of implementing the new penal code is likely to be known as well, and we are systematically working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1065	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1073	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map, no. Eighty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1080	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 9-11, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1–8 has been included in the setting on pages 24 and 25, while proposals Nos. 9-11 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate and promote a change in the law that would result in mandatory sentences being sentenced as a criminal reaction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1105	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan of measures to prevent public services from contributing to the disclosure of the identity of people living in a hidden place.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1121	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make a broad assessment of the possibility of limiting the possibility of previous convictions to reside close to the victim after settlement in the most serious cases.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1136	The President has doubts as to whether the representative now in the Chamber has the right to vote, since we have begun voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1139	I'm going to go out again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1144	It sounds good. [[muttering in the hall]] There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 7 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for further proposals to amend the law with a view to changing the parental right and the right to co-occurrence of children, where the father/grandfather or the grandmother has been convicted of serious abuse of their own/steer children.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to look into the possibilities of co-location so that service and police can provide assistance to children at risk of violence in the same locality. [[baby house]] The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1169	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right have been converted into a transmission proposal and will be amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is advised to provide better and more continuous statistics on violence and abuse against children, including children witnessing violence.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 4 to 6 and 8, from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better organisation of the Household Bank Scheme for those who live or have lived under so-called Code 6 hidden address.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a quality regulation is drawn up which clarifies what is actually expected of the municipalities in their efforts to strengthen the municipal crisis centre offer.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue today’s organisational model for the victims and to strengthen them within the framework of this model.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take immediate action to ensure that the current legislation on the timing of child and youth judicial hearings is complied with.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up its own national victim care centre.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e1230	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a Company and Commercial Law Commission to ensure that subsequent back-testing of whether we have up-to-date and effective company law is carried out faster and more reassuringly.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e2353	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e2362	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e2886	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e2895	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3133	It is quoted above Section III, Section 11, new fifth paragraph, and Section 42, sixth paragraph. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3146	It shall be counted over I and II, the rest of III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3155	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3164	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3759	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3768	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3862	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3871	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3878	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 8 and 9, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up closed asylum facilities for minor asylum seekers in order to prevent children from being subjected to criminal acts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3901	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen control measures when entering Norway, including resources for enhanced ID control on busses/trains in case of suspicion of trafficking in human beings.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e3917	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the training given to customs and security personnel at airports, socionomists, health professionals, teachers, asylum recipients’ employees, child protection etc. to identify victims of trafficking more effectively than today.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of its own independent and independent national rapporteur for combating trafficking in human beings.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure increased research efforts related to the group of minor asylum seekers who disappear from asylum recipients.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes in the structure and tasks of the police to help strengthen the work of the remaining police districts against trafficking in human beings.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals to increase the allocation of volunteers working among prostitutes and victims of trafficking in human beings.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for enhanced control measures with foreign exchange transactions by external companies not linked to ordinary banking activities, including the use of so-called bitcoin/card.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to increase the capacity of the dog service to detect currency smuggling at Norwegian border crossings.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-30.ana.ud2548e4002	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
