ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e94	The representatives Kåre Simensen and Tove Linnea Brandvik, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Allan Johansen, has taken the seat. Representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Torfinn Opheim apply for leave from 14 May to 16 May, both to attend meetings with members of the Nordic Council and members of the Russian Parliament in Syktyvkar, Russia. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Laila Thorsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Torfinn Opheim, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be dealt with immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tom Staahle and Knut Tønnesen For Rogaland County: Siv-Len Beach Forest – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e140	Knut Tønnes Steenersen and Siv-Len Strandskog are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e154	The EEA Agreement and the other agreements of Norway with the EU form the basis of the government's European policy. The EEA Agreement has been in force for 19 years and has worked for a period of stability and economic growth for Norway. It has been and is important for the development of the Norwegian economy, business and foreign trade. The EEA Agreement has also proved robust in the face of the major changes in EU cooperation that have taken place since the conclusion of the Agreement. The main principle of the EEA Agreement is a coherent single market legislation. Norway has consistently benefited from the development of common rules and standards for its activities in the European market. Norwegian enterprises are guaranteed equal treatment with EU enterprises in the internal market consisting of a total of 30 European countries. The EEA Agreement also allows the Nordics to work, study and establish themselves in all EEA countries. The debate in Stortinget on 9 April on Report. St. 5 for 2012-2013 and the suspension of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence confirmed the broad consensus in the Storting on the EEA Agreement and other agreements with the EU as a basis for Norwegian European policy. I'm happy for that consensus. Norway has chosen to develop cooperation with the EU also in areas outside the EEA Agreement itself. It includes Schengen membership, other judicial and police cooperation, asylum and immigration issues and cooperation on foreign and security policy issues. The government is building on these areas of cooperation. Cooperation with the EU in the field of justice is based on a recognition that cross-border challenges such as crime can only be met through international cooperation. Cooperation with the EU in the field of foreign and security policy is less formalised and without horizontal agreements. Still, it's close. This is due to the fact that there is very often a convergence of views and interests between Norway and the EU on foreign policy issues. Both parties have mutual interest in cooperation. The EU listens when Norway has something to tell. As the first Norwegian Minister, I have been invited on a few occasions to meetings of the Political and Security Committee, the PSC, which is the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs in Brussels. Here I have been given the opportunity to present Norwegian assessments and views on, among other things. North and key foreign policy themes such as the Middle East and Myanmar. Similarly, both my predecessors and I have met in the Foreign Affairs Committee of the European Parliament. Such meetings with key EU forums are also part of the government’s active European policy. Our active and good dialogue with the EU on Arctic issues over time has contributed to the development of the EU’s vision in a very positive direction. Cooperation with the EU in this area has become stronger and deeper in the last eight years. I would like to remind you that, later today, an important meeting of the Arctic Council begins, among other things. issues relating to the EU Observatory shall be discussed. Norway has a space for foreign policy action in its cooperation with the EU that is actively used by the government. Over the last eight years, the government has worked specifically to safeguard Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. Work on EU chemicals legislation, REACH, food safety efforts and the work on the Consumer Rights Directive are good examples of concrete results. Active Norwegian approach in the early phase, based on good professional arguments, has contributed to solutions in line with Norwegian interests. The right of withdrawal, the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee and the possibility to pursue a restrictive alcohol policy also show that the government has succeeded in using the space for action provided by the EEA Agreement in order to safeguard central Norwegian interests and values. There are, as is well-known, shared opinions in the Stortinget on Norwegian EU membership. However, the EEA Agreement has been a basis on which six Norwegian governments have been able to rely. The EEA Agreement links us to a constantly evolving European cooperation. We are not just affected by this development; we are part of it. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests, we therefore depend entirely on having an active European policy. An active European policy calls for early and precise monitoring of the impact of new legislation and initiatives on Norway. We have a good opportunity to participate in important EU processes. This will enable us to promote Norwegian assessments and interests while contributing constructively to good pan-European solutions. The EEA-related nature does not provide us with voting rights in EU bodies, but we still have a number of opportunities to influence regulatory development in the EU/EEA. One example is participation in expert groups and committees. It requires vigilance and capacity to arrive at the correct Norwegian positions. It is not just a challenge for government officials and politicians; it is a challenge for political Norway as a whole. Debates must start earlier, including in the Grand Duchy, in the parties and in the public change of words. If we are to be able to influence, we must have clear perceptions. We have to get on the track early enough. Consciousness, knowledge, information and commitment to the EEA in addition to the political bodies are therefore central to an active Norwegian European policy. In Norway, we have the tradition that Norwegian views on important issues should be broadly anchored and well discussed. This means that we cannot start the European debates here at home only when the directives are available. Nor should the debates just be about whether we should accept or reject the results after the EU processes have been completed. European policy requires a lot of many. Influence of the EU as a non-member country is more urgent and more demanding than it is for a Member State. This is a challenge that this government has taken seriously — not least in relation to the Storting. Two large-scale notifications of Norwegian European policies have been submitted, as well as comprehensive follow-up actions. The introduction of this half-yearly statement on key EU and EEA issues and regular meetings of the European Parliament Committee of the European Parliament has strengthened the information provided to the Stortinget. This has given Stortinget a better opportunity to engage in Norwegian European policy. In the 2005 Soria Moria Declaration, the government announced its desire to better organise and systematise EU/EEA work. The aim was to promote Norwegian interests towards the EU in a more offensive way. This objective was laid down in St.meld. No 23 for 2005–2006, on the implementation of European policy, which contained a comprehensive action plan. The measures included, inter alia: actions for better coordination, competence, transparency and dialogue. All the measures in the plan are currently implemented or in implementation. In 2010, the government appointed a research-based sample to carry out an overall review of the EEA Agreement and Norway’s other agreements with the EU. The investigation was further followed up by Meldning. St. 5 for 2012–2013, the EEA Agreement and Norway’s other agreements with the EU, which we have recently discussed in this Chamber. The notification does not imply a fundamental change in European policy. Instead, it provides a thorough review and assessment of how developments in the EU affect EEA cooperation and how we can address this in a way that takes care of Norwegian interests. With the EEA Communication, we have set a clear framework for European policy for a new red-green government. Centrally, there is awareness, involvement and knowledge. The government wants to involve stakeholders more systematically and in the past in EU and EEA business. We believe that this is important to ensure that everyone involved is given knowledge. It's simply central to our having a well-functioning government in our country. Civil society has significant information through its networks. They may make assessments that could strengthen Norwegian involvement in Brussels. New initiatives should therefore be widely discussed with those concerned, at the same time as they are being dealt with in the EU – and not after the directives and regulations have already been adopted. The government's aim is to strengthen the knowledge of the population about our cooperation and our agreements with the EU. We will fight to safeguard Norwegian interests throughout Norway's relations with the EU. At the same time, it is important to concentrate policy efforts in order to achieve concrete results. The Government will further develop the annual EU/EEA work programme for a more strategic tool. We would like, among other things: address the annual identification of new initiatives in the EU, involving stakeholders in the process. Good management of Norway’s agreements with the EU requires awareness and knowledge of the scope for action we have. The government will therefore work to strengthen EU/EEA competence at all levels of government. We will do this through training measures and better use of existing competences. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of the Norwegian national experts serving in the European Commission and in the European agencies. They develop valuable competences and are a central informal point of contact with the EU that we should make full use of. The Government will also strengthen Norway’s presence in the European Parliament by seconding a national expert from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the fall of. The EU sees very positive relations with Norway. The conclusions of the Council of the European Union on 21 December last year on relations with the EFTA countries and the working document of the European Commission, focusing on EEA cooperation, are uplifting with Norwegian eyes. Reference is made to the breadth and depth of cooperation between Norway and the EU. The conclusions underline that the relationship with Norway is characterised by a high degree of stability and close cooperation through the EEA and other agreements with the EU. Norway’s financial contribution through the EEA funds and our large contributions to the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, following the financial crisis, are gaining recognition. Both the Council of the European Union and the European Commission point to good experience with Norway. They want to strengthen further cooperation in the field of justice policy, foreign policy and defence policy with us. Furthermore, the EU will continue the good cooperation we have on the management of energy, climate, environment and resources for fish. In particular, the EU is committed to strengthening cooperation in the north and the Arctic. The European Commission working document states that EEA cooperation has worked well and has been flexible enough to adapt to developments in the EU since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. At the same time, the European Commission is faced with challenges in the ongoing management of cooperation. The aim is in particular to ensure the effective management of the agreement, in order to achieve so-called ‘legal homogeneity’ in the EEA area. The Government agrees that effective management of the agreement is important and that both parties are responsible for ensuring this. The European Commission further points out in the same report that it considers that the Swiss solution, based on a wide range of individual bilateral agreements with the EU, has come to an end. In response to this, Switzerland has agreed to initiate discussions with a view to finding an alternative institutional framework. The government has taken action to reduce the number of outstanding cases. At the same time, the nature of the EEA Agreement must be taken into account. The inclusion of new acts in the EEA Agreement will take place after the EU has adopted new legislation. This is because the EFTA States are not part of the EU decision-making process. There will therefore always be a certain number of acts adopted in the EU but not yet incorporated in the agreement. Furthermore, as you know, there may be professional, legal or political challenges that take some time to clarify matters. Efforts to reduce the number of outstanding cases have so far produced good results. With effect from 1 January 2011, the EU has established a new supervisory structure in the field of financial markets. The aim is to strengthen the supervision of the entire European financial sector. This is very important and correct, and has our full support. If such a body had existed before 2008, much could have looked different today. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway will be able to take part in this work. The three new supervisory authorities may impose binding obligations on national authorities and individual market actors. This raises questions of principle relating to the Constitution and to the two-pillar structure of the EEA Agreement. The solution must be within our constitutional framework. The case has been thoroughly investigated, and discussions with the EU are still ongoing. As Stortinget is well known, it is important for the government to maintain the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme of 2 million. kr per depositor per bank. In the EU, this limit is now fully harmonised to EUR 100000. Adapting to the EU level would result in a reduction of about 60 pst. at the Norwegian level of coverage. The Government continues its efforts to maintain the Norwegian position. Let me also mention the railway package IV, which contains proposals for opening up competition for national rail passenger transport. The package also proposes to introduce mandatory requirements for the use of competition in public procurement contracts. Railway package IV is an important matter because it concerns a transport sector on which the government is betting. The government will work to ensure that in the forthcoming legislation, Norway has room for action in order to facilitate good rail services and ensure a good transport service throughout the country. In order to achieve this, it is again essential that we are early on in promoting our views and proposals for changes to EU bodies. The work on the Directive is still far from being targeted. Therefore, the government has not taken a decision on any inclusion. The government prioritises a high standard of health, environment and safety in Norwegian working life. We believe it is essential that all those working in Norway should have decent pay and working conditions. The government has therefore launched Action Plans 1 and 2 against social dumping. We are now launching a new Action Plan 3. These measures include the charge of infringements of the Labour Environment Act, the collective right of action for trade unions in the event of a breach of the rules of employment and the lifting of the level of penalties for infringements of the Public Service Act and the Working Environment Act. Let me set out the example where nine courts brought an action against the State at Tariffs because they thought the regulation was contrary to EEA law. Judgments in this so-called shipyard case have now been issued. The Supreme Court gave the state the right to all points. The judgment was unanimous in stating that the regulation for the publishing industry is compatible with EEA law. The yardwork is of great importance to the worker’s side. It is very gratifying to note that it is entirely in line with EEA law to respect the rights of workers and to counteract social dumping. The judgment shows that the EEA Agreement provides us with a considerable scope for action in this area and that the possibility of maintaining the Norwegian working life model is ensured. Another important issue in the field of working life is the proposal for a enforcement directive. The Directive should ensure better enforcement of the rights of posted workers and that the authorities of the EEA countries cooperate more closely to this end. We are now actively working to ensure that the Directive does not restrict our ability to have effective and targeted measures against social dumping. This is a high priority matter for the government. The Minister of Labour discussed the matter with the responsible Commissioner Làszlo Andor, at the latest at the regional meeting of the International Labour Organisation, ILO, in Oslo in April, and the EFTA countries have developed a common position in line with the Norwegian. The EEA Agreement imposes on the Member States an obligation to pay social security benefits to persons residing in other EEA countries as if they were resident in the paying Member State, provided that the other conditions for the benefit are fulfilled. This applies to pensions and other social security benefits. Bilateral social security agreements and ILO conventions concluded by Norway also involve compulsory social security exports, but limited to pensions. These agreements also ensure payments of benefits from other contracting countries to residents of Norway. The Government is reviewing the current provisions on membership in public security and exports of benefits granted under the Swedish Social Security Act, the Child Security Act and the Cash Support Act. The work is anchored in the Ministry of Labour but is carried out in cooperation with other departments concerned. Norway has been a full member of many EU programming initiatives since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. This is an important part of our cooperation with the EU. Through the programmes, we contribute to the basis for policy development in Europe. The programmes also provide for the exchange of knowledge between Norwegian and European environments and give us the opportunity to build important networks. Norway has benefited greatly from participation in the previous programming period. Most of the EU programmes will end in 2013. The EU is now developing new programmes for the period 20l4–2020. As of 2014, it will include: come a joint framework programme for research and innovation called Horizon 2020. The research program included about 1ag 70 pst. of the total programme budget for the previous period. The priorities of the new programme are well in line with Norwegian research policy. On the Norwegian side, we are now working to assess the new EU programmes and which we want to participate in. The government will come back with a final decision on Norwegian participation in the near future. Croatia becomes a known member of the EU on 1 July 2013. The country has applied for accession to the EEA Agreement pursuant to Article 128 of the EEA Agreement. We started formal negotiations on enlargement of the EEA with Croatia on 15 March this year. Negotiations are expected to be concluded during the spring. The current period of the EEA Financial Mechanisms and some allowances for fish to the EU expires on 30 April 2014. The government is preparing for the forthcoming talks with the EU on possible solutions for the period after 30 April 2014. Let me also mention the historic agreement between Serbia and Kosovo to normalise relations between the countries. The EU has played a central role here in facilitating the discussions. The agreement is also an important milestone for the EU's new foreign service and for High Representative Catherine Ashton, who has led the dialogue. A central element of the agreement is the establishment of an association of the Serb-dominated municipalities in Kosovo, which is now to be given greater autonomy. As a result of the agreement, membership negotiations with Serbia and a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Kosovo are now being opened. In addition, the agreement provides a basis for greater political stability and enhanced economic development throughout the region. This is a very positive development. Energy and climate policies are and remain central to Norway’s and the EU’s cooperation. This was last confirmed during a major conference on the future role of gas in Europe, which Norway and the European Commission held in Brussels this winter. Norway is closely integrated with the EU in the energy sector. We have common interests with the EU in developing a genuine internal energy market with stable and predictable framework conditions. At the same time, there is a need to adjust the use of instruments in the EU/EEA area so that we can achieve long-term and common objectives. The situation today is that the price of CO2 emission allowances is very low. Low economic activity, which has produced less emissions than expected, is a significant cause of the low quota price. However, such a low price level would weaken incentives for the development and use of new and more climate-friendly technologies. Norway supports the European Commission’s efforts to find effective measures that may give rise to a higher quota price. We have expressed this in a letter to the European Commission. The government prefers the deletion of a certain number of allowances, possibly in combination with a larger annual reduction in the total quantity of allowances. Higher prices are important to strengthen confidence in trading of allowances as an effective climate policy instrument. The EU has recently presented a Green Paper on a climate and energy package by 2030, a Communication on the future of carbon capture and storage, CCS, in Europe and a Report on the development of renewable energy. Scenarios both from the EU and the International Energy Agency, the IEA, indicate that fossil energy sources will continue to play a significant role both in Europe and globally for a long time to come. Therefore, if we are to meet the climate challenges, CCS has to be part of the solution. Norway will continue to work politically and through the EEA funds to develop and implement CCS technologies in Europe as well. The EU objectives for CCS demonstration facilities have not yet been achieved. From the Norwegian side, we support measures that can help improve the functioning of the internal energy market. An example of this is the third energy market package, which is now in the EEA process. A result of the new Elektables planned from Norway to Germany and the United Kingdom is more efficient markets. The euro crisis continues to require exceptional action in several countries. In March, there was agreement on a support package for Cyprus to help the country deal with the crisis in its major banking sector. The euro area countries have pledged up to 10 billion. euro in loans. It is expected that one billion of this amount will be covered by the IMF. Several of the largest banks in Cyprus were no longer solvents after major losses, among others. in Greek government bonds and no longer had access to market loans. Poor public finances and the need for new capital for banks made it necessary to provide assistance from the international community. In the solution finally found, both shareholders, bond holders and depositors must take significant losses. It limits the burden that Cypriot taxpayers have to bear. It is positive that deposits below EUR 100 000 were protected in the final agreement in line with the intentions of the EU Deposit Guarantee Directive. Norway also contributes, together with the group of EU Member States providing technical assistance to Greece with government reform. The efforts to clean up the post-financial crisis have made new progress in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering related to tax havens. These are problems Norway has long been concerned about solving. It is therefore positive that within the EU there is now a move towards more information exchange of banking data, as Luxembourg now has. has been willing to do so. High corruption and weak governance are a problem in many countries in Europe. It weakens confidence in democracy and limits the ability to deal with the crisis. Another important challenge for democracy is extremism — especially right-wing extremism. It threatens Europe if hate rhetoric increases and becomes more widespread in the general political debate. The government is following this development closely. Through the EEA funds, we strengthen efforts to defend fundamental rights and combat hateful expressions in all relevant programmes in the 15 beneficiary countries. In the support given to civil society, we demand to contribute to combating discrimination and hateful expressions. We also demand specific measures against racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, anti-space and hateful social media expressions. In this work, we work closely with the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe plays an increasingly important role in combating extremism and protecting our European democracies. I will attend the Council of Europe ministerial meeting in two days, on 16 May. There I would like to stress that all Member States of the Council of Europe must comply with the standards of democracy and human rights to which they committed themselves when they joined the organisation. Let me also remind you of the government's work on space in Europe through the EEA funds and the Council of Europe. For example, in Bulgaria: 10 pst. by EEA funds are linked to relevant measures for the space people. The aim is to improve living conditions, to strengthen integration and to combat discrimination. Programmes and projects are under constant development. Until 2016, we're going to spend about 300 million. on various measures targeting the space population in 10 of the countries receiving it in central and southern Europe. In Romania and Bulgaria, we're going to spend at least 205 of these millions. We shall also initiate a dialogue with the EU and the relevant recipient countries on the possibility of using any unused EEA funds during the current period for increased space use. EEA funds focus on socially vulnerable and vulnerable groups. Unemployment and economic decline characterise many of the countries receiving EEA funds. It is natural to look at how, through the programmes, we can take care of the social aspect and combat poverty. We also take this with us in the further work on the EEA funds. The Government has started preparatory work with a view to future negotiations with the EU on possible solutions after 30 April 2014 when current financial and fishing quotas cease to exist. Similar preparatory work is also being carried out on the EU side. There is still no timetable for when such negotiations can be expected to begin. I will come back to Stortinget about what will be Norwegian objectives in these negotiations at the time this will be relevant. Let me also mention that the EU and the Council of Europe have agreed on a draft agreement on the accession of the EU to the European Convention on Human Rights. Negotiations between the EU and the Member States of the Council of Europe have been conducted by Norway. The European Court of Justice shall now deliver an opinion on the draft before the Member States of the Council of Europe are submitted to the Agreement for its adoption. The agreement will significantly strengthen the protection of human rights in Europe. Crisis time is also change time. Although the economic crisis in Europe is far from over, we are already beginning to see the outlines of a changed EU. This affects Norway and is something we have to deal with. Even before the euro crisis, it was clear that Europe faced major challenges of ensuring prosperity, stability and well-being in the increasingly tougher global competition. Many European countries were characterised by low economic growth and impaired competitiveness. In addition, significant macroeconomic imbalances had developed internally in the euro area. The crisis turned several of these challenges into pressing, current issues that undermined much of the confidence in euro cooperation. High government debt, high and rising unemployment rates and declines in production have not made it easier to resolve the euro crisis. While it is absolutely necessary to resolve the acute crisis, we must also have looked at the long-term consequences. Step by step, the EU has launched forward-looking measures, which will continue to take effect long after the crisis is over. However, in order to ensure the future stability of euro-cooperation, economic policy coordination must be significantly better than it was in the years preceding the crisis. There is now a deepening of cooperation in the EU. We see stricter rules coming and a greater recognition that the rules actually have to be followed. The aim of strengthening the economic union is to restore confidence in monetary union and to strengthen the sustainability of euro-cooperation. As a result, we want to see an EU moving at different speeds, with greater differences between the countries participating in euro cooperation and those not. There is a lot of progress in the euro zone. The reason for this is simply that many of the most pressing challenges are related to euro-cooperation. But also in a longer-term perspective, it is likely that the euro zone will have both a faster integration and a different type of integration than the other EU. The EU is now building new and more robust structures to improve governance in the euro area. The Government considers this to be correct and necessary to underpin economic and financial stability across Europe. It is recognised in European capitals that structural challenges must also be addressed in order to ensure growth and employment. But it's urgent. We risk that a whole generation of young unemployed people in southern Europe will never get into work. The social consequences of youth unemployment in countries like Spain and Greece are almost unimaginable for us here at home. What is going on is not just macroeconomic governance. Innovation and well-functioning labour markets are also central. In difficult times, we need to be aware of having a good dialogue between workers and employers to mitigate the level of conflict. We need distribution and welfare systems more than ever to prevent the economic crisis from leading to social distress. This was one of the issues at the ILO Regional Conference that we hosted in Oslo in April. At this meeting, it was a central point to establish that we can not only look at the economic aspects but also understand what the situation in Europe means to people and society. Many of the heaviest promises have to be made at national level. At European level, further development of the internal market will become the key to migration and growth. It involves the whole of the EU as well as the EFTA countries in the EEA. For Europe's challenges cannot be solved in the euro zone alone. For the government, providing jobs is the most effective strategy against poverty. With a Europe in financial crisis and with increasing unemployment, it is natural to see whether we can invest even more in combating unemployment, including through our use of EEA funds. In the coming period, we will therefore be working to turn more of the EEA funds in that direction. All indications indicate that there is no willingness to change the very basis of the Treaty in the EU in the coming years. But it is obvious that the accelerating integration we see in the economic field also means closer political integration in some form. Which shape this will eventually get, and how fast it will come, remains to be seen. This is also about Europe's global role in a broader sense. For Norway, this development poses important challenges to which we must already begin to deal. I want to do some short observations here. We also deserve to strengthen the economic governance of the euro zone. That being said, Norway needs to be aligned after the development of EU cooperation is increasingly taking place elsewhere than in the institutions to which Norway is linked by the EEA Agreement. We must follow this development closely. If necessary, we need to find new ways of promoting Norwegian interests. If the EU changes, our working methods also need to be adapted. In this picture, it will be important for us to further develop our good and close relations with central partner countries also in the field of European policy. I am thinking in particular of our Nordic neighbouring countries, which are interested in maintaining a social model that is essentially similar to the Norwegian one. I am also thinking of Germany, which we have an ever closer relationship with both political and economic. Ensuring the Norwegian model of society is not achieved by shutting the world out. We do that by actively participating in the design of decisions that concern us. We also do it through practical engagement in Europe based on Norwegian baselines. Examples include our commitment to the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe – OSCE – the EEA funds and our forthcoming chairmanship of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development – the OECD – which has as its main theme the fight against unemployment and economic inequality. The finance minister and I will be chairing the OECD ministerial meeting at the end of the month in Paris. In the tough economic times that Europe is now experiencing, our good relations and our active European policy are more important than ever. The EEA Agreement covers many of the main areas of our relations with the EU. At the same time, it does not limit us to finding good solutions in the areas it does not clarify. It's a combination I think we as a nation will have the opportunity to appreciate even in the years to come. What is going on is not just macroeconomic governance. Innovation and well-functioning labour markets are also central. In difficult times, we need to be aware of having a good dialogue between workers and employers to mitigate the level of conflict. We need distribution and welfare systems more than ever to prevent the economic crisis from leading to social distress. This was one of the issues at the ILO Regional Conference that we hosted in Oslo in April. At this meeting, it was a central point to establish that we can not only look at the economic aspects but also understand what the situation in Europe means to people and society. Many of the heaviest promises have to be made at national level. At European level, further development of the internal market will become the key to migration and growth. It involves the whole of the EU as well as the EFTA countries in the EEA. For Europe's challenges cannot be solved in the euro zone alone. For the government, providing jobs is the most effective strategy against poverty. With a Europe in financial crisis and with increasing unemployment, it is natural to see whether we can invest even more in combating unemployment, including through our use of EEA funds. In the coming period, we will therefore be working to turn more of the EEA funds in that direction. All indications indicate that there is no willingness to change the very basis of the Treaty in the EU in the coming years. But it is obvious that the accelerating integration we see in the economic field also means closer political integration in some form. Which shape this will eventually get, and how fast it will come, remains to be seen. This is also about Europe's global role in a broader sense. For Norway, this development poses important challenges to which we must already begin to deal. I want to do some short observations here. We also deserve to strengthen the economic governance of the euro zone. That being said, Norway needs to be aligned after the development of EU cooperation is increasingly taking place elsewhere than in the institutions to which Norway is linked by the EEA Agreement. We must follow this development closely. If necessary, we need to find new ways of promoting Norwegian interests. If the EU changes, our working methods also need to be adapted. In this picture, it will be important for us to further develop our good and close relations with central partner countries also in the field of European policy. I am thinking in particular of our Nordic neighbouring countries, which are interested in maintaining a social model that is essentially similar to the Norwegian one. I am also thinking of Germany, which we have an ever closer relationship with both political and economic. Ensuring the Norwegian model of society is not achieved by shutting the world out. We do that by actively participating in the design of decisions that concern us. We also do it through practical engagement in Europe based on Norwegian baselines. Examples include our commitment to the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe – OSCE – the EEA funds and our forthcoming chairmanship of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development – the OECD – which has as its main theme the fight against unemployment and economic inequality. The finance minister and I will be chairing the OECD ministerial meeting at the end of the month in Paris. In the tough economic times that Europe is now experiencing, our good relations and our active European policy are more important than ever. The EEA Agreement covers many of the main areas of our relations with the EU. At the same time, it does not limit us to finding good solutions in the areas it does not clarify. It's a combination I think we as a nation will have the opportunity to appreciate even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e312	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e326	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e335	Today — at least presumably, as there is a broad consensus in the Committee — voluntary protocol to the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1984 on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment is ratified. Norway signed this Protocol in 2003 and entered into force in 2006. It is worth noting that it is proposed that the Ombudsman of the Administration, known as the Civil Ombudsman, should be designated as the national prevention mechanism in accordance with the purpose and functioning of the Protocol. This Protocol is a complement to the United Nations Convention on Torture and it may be worth mentioning that the United Nations Subcommittee on Torture Prevention should be able to visit all places in Norway, both under public and private control, which carry out detention as defined in the Protocol. In Norway, it will involve both prisons, of course, and arrests, but also child protection institutions, foreign detention, i.e. Trandum, and military arrests, as well as coercive measures and detention against psychiatric patients or people with drug problems. There is some disagreement in the Committee on the role of the Civil Ombudsman. There the Progress Party – and I can quote the comment of the members of the Progress Party in the Committee – writes that they do not support the government's proposal that the Ombudsman of the Storting should act as a national preventive mechanism for administration. They point out that ‘the Ombudsman is an organ of the Grand Duchy and therefore it should not be the government that proposes additional tasks for him’, and they also indicate that several hearing bodies are sceptical of this system. To this it is worth mentioning that the Progress Party has previously joined this scheme, and then I can read up from Innst. 264 S for 2009-2010, which also includes the Progress Party in the following note: ‘The Committee therefore asks the Government to facilitate compliance with the OPCAT requirements by the Civil Ombudsman so that OPCAT can be ratified as soon as possible.’ That is why we were convinced that this is a matter of consensus in Stortinget, and I expect the Progress Party to be able to explain why they have turned around. Then there is nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e351	There must be no doubt that we obviously support the ratification. It should only be lacking that Norway, as one of the countries which ratified the Convention already in 1986, and a country which is very high on the ground in terms of the behaviour of other countries in relation to torture or other forms of atrocities, inhumane or degrading treatment, would not ratify the Additional Voluntary Protocol. And that's not a moment too early, you ask me: Seven years have passed since the protocol came into force, so it's high time we got it ratified. Especially in a world where violence and torture are part of everyday life in many countries, both from organised criminals and, not least, from governments and authorities, it is very important to have a preventive mechanism that can actually provide advice and listen to those who are exposed to abuse by authorities or others. The whole committee agrees on this. Norway has also signed and ratified the European Torture Convention and has been a party to it since 1989. The European Council delegation has just sent its proposal for a new member of the CPT to Strasbourg. The work done there is very important and that Norway is involved is necessary to show that we are taking this issue seriously. We also have our challenges, as the CPT has pointed out, in terms of both custody imprisonment and compulsory mental health protection. It's okay that we also get this up to a global level. It is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that we are different from the rest of the committee in terms of the national prevention mechanism. Like several of the hearing bodies, we support the fact that a new national human rights institution is given this task. There are, of course, several reasons for that. In 2009, we had a national human rights institution. Here is the change – I can inform the rapporteur. Now we're going to create a new one. Then it's important to listen to the bodies that are actually affected and that are affected, and we have. That's why we have a different view than the rest of the committee. This national human rights institution is an institution which shall be independent and free of political influence at all. Moreover, a preventive mechanism should be within the mandate of this new institution. Like several of the hearing bodies, we also don't like the mixing of roles. I would also like to stress that I do not want to in any way question the integrity and trust of the Civil Ombudsman. But the wish is that we keep the different things apart. We have no alternative proposals today. We will come back to that when the decision to grant and the changes to the law comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e366	The fight against torture and other cruel degrading or inhuman treatment or punishment is important and correct. Norway should play an active role in combating that practice. It is both materially and symbolically important that we now sign the supplementary protocol. Like my colleague Karin Woldseth, I would like to stress that it is not one day too early. So it's been seven years since the supplementary protocol came into force. As of 5 December last year, the additional protocol had 65 parties, including Sweden and Denmark, but not Norway. I also notice that there is a broad consensus on this ratification. It is clearly supported both by the Committee and by the Hearing Officers that Norway accedes to this Protocol. The formal framework for such work is important. The Protocol gives rise to some additional obligations in addition to those already deriving from the Convention. One is the obligation to organise visits by the UN Subcommittee on Prevention. It is an obligation to establish, appoint or maintain one or more independent national visiting bodies for the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, a so-called national prevention mechanism. And it is an obligation to cooperate with the Sub-Committee on Prevention and the National Prevention Mechanism(s). The right supports the designation of the Civil Ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism with its functions, but would stress that it requires a separate guardian of the independence of the mechanism and that the Ombudsman must be very conscious of his new role. The approach taken by appointing the Civil Ombudsman as a national prevention mechanism alone, but allowing the national human rights and civil society institution to contribute to the work of the mechanism through advisory panels, therefore appears to be sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e375	The Convention of 10 December 1984 on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment was ratified by Norway two years after its adoption. There we have committed ourselves to taking effective and legal administrative and judicial measures to prevent torture and other forms of cruel inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. When the General Assembly adopted an optional protocol to this in 2002, which was signed by Norway in 2003 and entered into force in 2006, developed by an open working group set up by the United Nations Human Rights Organisation, where we from Norway were represented by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is time – as has been said before – that we are now ratifying this, the Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee is behind our desire to ratify this protocol. The Protocol was adopted in order to establish a preventive system with regular visits from, among others. independent international bodies. However, it obliges us to facilitate visits to the UN Subcommittee on Prevention and to cooperate with the Committee, and – perhaps most importantly – is the obligation to establish, appoint or maintain one or more independent national prevention mechanisms that meet the requirements of the Protocol. As has been said, there has been discussion both among the Hearing Officers and in the Committee on which body to act as the national prevention mechanism. We in the Christian People's Party, together with the majority in the Committee, note the cooperation between several departments, and take positive note of the fact that the Ombudsman of the Stortinge for administration should have the primary responsibility for this follow-up, and we look forward to the laws and regulations that must result from this election. Now, when we ratify this protocol, we show that Norway is being held responsible for the work on torture and other cruel inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. It is important that all detention centres in Norway be regularly monitored, as stated in a unanimous opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e384	It is gratifying that there is a cross-political agreement that Norway should ratify the optional protocol to the United Nations Convention on Torture. This will help to strengthen the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment in Norway. It will also strengthen Norway’s credibility and impact in international efforts to combat torture. Within one year of ratification, Norway has to designate one or more national prevention mechanisms. They shall make regular visits to detention centres to prevent torture. As you know, the government has proposed to designate the Civil Ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism. I believe that there are many good reasons to choose this solution. Let me mention three: Firstly, the role of a national preventive mechanism fits well into the existing mandate of the Civil Ombudsman. The office has a long experience of control of the administration, including places of detention, and has great impact. Secondly, I believe that we should designate only one body as a national preventive mechanism. We will then have a consistent practice, clear responsibilities and a visible point of contact. Thirdly, if the Civil Ombudsman becomes a national mechanism, there will be a good opportunity for him to share experience with other Nordic countries. Denmark, Sweden and Finland have appointed their parliamentary ombudsmen to this role. The government considers it important that civil society and the national human rights institution be given the opportunity to contribute to the work of the national mechanism, and we therefore propose that the Ombudsman establish an advisory body. The Committee’s position demonstrates a broad consensus that the Civil Ombudsman should be designated as a national mechanism with – as we heard – the exception of the members of the Progress Party. As the representative of Serigstad Valen pointed out, I would also like to remind you that, in his position on the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report for 2009, the Government unanimously asked the Ombudsman to comply with the requirements of the Protocol so that it could be ratified as soon as possible. The Government has therefore considered that it has a mandate from the Storting to propose this solution. I would also like to stress that the Civil Ombudsman is positive about taking on this task. The members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence have also shown that a number of hearing bodies are sceptical as to what they consider to be a mixture of different functions and that the national prevention mechanism should be a free and independent body without political influence. I would like to remind you that the vast majority of the hearing bodies agreed that the Civil Ombudsman should be designated as a national preventive mechanism, either alone or with other bodies. It is true that several non-governmental organisations were critical of the Civil Ombudsman alone. They thought it would mean a completely different role and tasks than the Civil Ombudsman has today, and that the Ombudsman does not have the necessary multidisciplinary competence. Some also asked whether the Ombudsman had sufficient independence from the governing authorities. Finally, the Government believes that the Civil Ombudsman undoubtedly complies with the protocol’s requirement of functional independence. Today, the Civil Ombudsman has a key role to play in the administration and will have to play a more proactive and outreach role as a national prevention mechanism. The Government considers that there is no contradiction between the role of the Civil Ombudsman as the Board of Appeal and the role of the national prevention mechanism. On the contrary, we believe that the combination of these roles will add value. To the concern that the Ombudsman does not have the necessary multidisciplinary competence: the government agrees that the Ombudsman does not have the necessary professional scope at present, but this can be changed with increased appropriations and cooperation with other relevant actors, to which it is also added. The Ministry of Justice aims to promote a proposition on changes to the Civil Ombudsman Act during the spring session. In this proposition, the Stortinget will be invited to designate the Civil Ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism by including a new paragraph in the law that states that he has this function. I think it would be wise to choose the Civil Ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism. By doing so, we follow the model of the other Nordic countries, and we use the Ombudsman's unique societal position to strengthen the prevention of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e421	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for taking the trouble to read out the policy of the Progress Party in this area. Interestingly, this is read twice from the pulpit by representatives other than the Progress Party, so thank you for that! I have a question for the Foreign Minister about time use. This is not the only convention we can't ratify within normal time, so I want to ask the Foreign Minister: what is it that takes so much time to get ratified conventions in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e428	Firstly, we place great emphasis on the work of international human rights, that we should take it seriously when we ratify and incorporate Norwegian legislation. I think it must be allowed to say that we are perhaps even more thorough than some other countries I know about, when it comes to checking consistency between the obligations we assume and those already in force in Norway, and to ensure that we are actually able to meet all the obligations. It sometimes takes even more time than for countries that might take it a little less seriously. In return, there will be a real follow-up. It is not that while we have been waiting for this ratification, there have been large amounts of torture and cruel treatment. It is not the case that the legislation is not applicable. So that's the supplementary protocol we're talking about, with the institutional solutions that result from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e435	I have another question for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and it concerns this supplementary protocol. It opens up for transparency. It already has the CPT and the torture commission in the Council of Europe today. There won't be twice as many visits to the various closed institutions now? What's the difference, really?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e441	I think I'll answer the representative Woldseth's question saying that it's both a good purpose to implement and ratify as quickly as possible, and it's a good purpose to make sure that all homework is done properly before you get there. In that field of tension, we find that sometimes it takes time, but I note that it is a cross-political pleasure that we are now where we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e446	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e462	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e471	The international commitment in Afghanistan has marked the international and national political debate for ten years – naturally enough. The international community felt that something had to be done in Afghanistan. The ISAF operation has been a major operation and a long-term operation. Sooner or later, the Afghans had to take over responsibility for security in their own country. There we are. The Afghan authorities are gradually taking over, and the international military involvement is escalating and becoming phased out — including Norwegian. Let me make it clear that the military engagement is escalating, but the civil engagement must continue, perhaps also escalating. Norway must contribute to social development in Afghanistan for a long time in the future. We should not forget Afghanistan. We recently celebrated the day of liberation and veto in Norway. We should use every opportunity to thank them approx. 8 000 Norwegian women and men serving in Afghanistan. Ten Northmen have lost their lives in the peace efforts in Afghanistan. We'll never forget them. The Left has proposed a comprehensive review of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan – that is, it is really a little confusing what the Left believes, because the heading of the proposal states that there is a proposal for a comprehensive review of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan, while the proposal itself calls an independent and comprehensive review of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. What shades are contained in it, left-wing Borghild Tenden, which I now see on the list of speakers, can clarify in his post, but we have to assume that it is the wording of the proposal itself that is the most precise, and that that is what the Left believes, and I want to spend some time on it. It may seem like the public vocabulary and political debate in Norway have become very popular when we talk about important policy issues, carrying out independent reviews, evaluations and reviews. Yes, there is almost no limit to the issues on which it is proposed that independent reviews, evaluations or reviews should be carried out. So everything from hospitalization to now the involvement in Afghanistan must be independently reviewed. We need to evaluate Norway's efforts in Afghanistan. A unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence agrees with the Left that we are to carry out an evaluation of our involvement in Afghanistan, and that we are doing so when the transition process to the liquidation of ISAF is completed next year. Then it's time to do that. We all agree on that. But it is the Stortinge that is responsible for carrying out that evaluation. We can't "outsource" it to someone independent. Taking political decisions is weighing different considerations against each other. It's rarely there's one answer that's right and one solution that's wrong. It's always nuances. Different considerations need to be weighed against each other, and then finally a political decision is taken. They are the ones who have taken the political decision, who are responsible for the decision that has been taken. It is the Norwegian Magnificent who has taken the decision on Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan, contributions to ISAF, civil involvement, assistance, etc. At that time, the Stortinge is also responsible for carrying out that evaluation when the time comes. We can't leave that to anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e490	The rapporteur made a good point, for which I am very much in favour. I come back to some of the things I disagree a little, at the end of my post. The proposers want a comprehensive and systematic review of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. It's basically a natural wish, and it's a pious wish. But it's still a question of timing, and timing is a little crazy in this context. The debate on our involvement in Afghanistan has been and is extensive in Norwegian public opinion. It's been for years. The size is presented with an annual report, and there is an annual debate on this topic. It is also on the public agenda over time. Once the process of ISAF closure has been completed in 2014, it is natural to address the issue of a review of this effort at that time — not now. The defence itself has ongoing evaluations and assessments of their work on behalf of Norway, and this is part of the word change when information is provided to the Stortinget. Thus, Stortinget has a good basis for understanding what is and has been the situation down there. For the Progress Party, it is more natural to point out the importance of establishing a real practice that clarifies the scope and duration of the different tasks before they are implemented – that we are getting better at it. Clear objectives must be set out in terms of what the mission is going to do and how it is going to be resolved. It is also necessary to define the appropriate resources, both politically and for example the defence. Furthermore, it is important that there is a concrete decision-making basis for financing future operations. It is essential that there is a clear framework for the length of time required for each of the forces to be bound up in the missions. In this context, it is also essential to ensure adequate rotation of staff. The representative Myrli had some historical data on the number of injured and killed Norwegian soldiers in international operations over these ten years. I fully agree with the representative Myrli that we must never forget the efforts of our women and men in their service, and the victims they have had to bear. In a short time, we'll send farm forces down to the Gulf of Aden. The Committee was given good information on the work and efforts to be undertaken and on how this task has been resolved. It gave the security that is necessary for us to send our men and women into international operations, as we are about to do. Finally, I have to think about what I disagree a little bit with the representative of Myrli, which is what he addressed on the subject of independent reviews. A general consideration I would like to take from this pulpit: it is important that we actually have independent reviews of different themes, precisely to ensure that we are able to identify the various things that are important for the Storting to make the right decisions later, and also to assess whether the decisions that have actually been taken on different issues have been made on a proper basis. I just thought it was natural to bring it on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e509	In a day like this, when we discuss the efforts of our men and women in uniform doing and having done through a long engagement in Afghanistan, it is important to remember the efforts they have actually made. It's people who do everything in their power to keep the rest of us safe. That effort deserves our deepest respect and recognition. There is no disagreement that we should learn from the participation in Afghanistan. It is the most comprehensive and complex international operation we have participated in – not least with a wide range of instruments, both civil and military. We need to learn, and we need to gain experience in several sectors. A good starting point for the discussion is to remind us of why we are participating in Afghanistan. A desire to prevent Afghanistan from once again becoming a haven of terrorism is the reason for Norway’s involvement over ten years in Afghanistan. That's what we have to measure the effort from when that time comes. Nor is there any doubt that Norway is going to participate in international operations again, perhaps with the same full spectrum of instruments, perhaps with other instruments than today. I can't exactly say that I like the attempts to make this a conflict case. We all agree that we should have a thorough evaluation of our efforts in Afghanistan when the time is right. There is no disagreement about the substance of the matter, but the question is the timing and what signals we send. Let me spend some time on it. Many believe that Norway is out of Afghanistan. We're not in any way. We are present with approx. half of the contribution we've made. We have approx. 260 soldiers in Afghanistan. We have the special forces, who are on dangerous missions every single day, we have the Telemark battalion, who is running a police mechanization team that is also on dangerous missions, and we now also have tactical air transport for another time. The signal we're sending by going to launch an evaluation now – before the processes we've started are done, and while we're still heavy – in my opinion, it would be completely wrong. In addition, Afghanistan – and also our efforts – is at a critical stage. 2014 is the year of completion of the transition and presidential elections are announced in April. The positioning of the elections is already in full swing, and the last visit of the Committee to Afghanistan in 2012 gave us good descriptions of this. That means that it's going to be demanding on a lot of fields in Afghanistan in the future, and the resources of our presence, both civil and military, should be fully focused on the mission we're going to solve. The debate and the acquisition of experience are ongoing. This means that you can also maintain history – the fear that things will be lost along the way for a larger evaluation, we can manage in many ways. NORAD has made extensive evaluations of Norwegian development efforts. Reports and evaluations have been received from the Defence Agency and research institutions such as the NUPI, both on their own initiative and on request. There is, of course, an experience transfer from one quota to the next. So we have many experiences. Some people seem to want to add up to some sort of review. It's unnecessary in my opinion, because the most important thing is a systematized and experience-based learning where we go into what things we've learned, and what we're going to do better next time. Not least, our involvement in Afghanistan has been followed up by ongoing debate – both political and otherwise in society – and there has been an overall support in the United Kingdom. The Afghanistan statement is a valuable grant in this way. We will have the next 4 June, with debate on 6 June. That being said, of course, there's a lot of things you can evaluate separately. Perhaps we should consider in particular the use of the so-called Norwegian model, where there has been a clear distinction between civil and military efforts. It is also important, as the government writes in its reply to the committee, to evaluate in cooperation with our allies, not least to do the military evaluation within the framework of NATO. The Norwegian military effort is part of a coalition, which means that Norwegian strategic elections have also not taken place in isolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e530	Everyone remembers where they were September 11, 2001. That attack was the worst terrorist attack in peacetime ever. It was brutal, and it was inhuman. It changed our world, and then it had decisive consequences for the whole decade we have been through — including in Norway. We quickly adopted a new and controversial law on terrorism, for example: The debate on religion and extremism stuck to, new enemy images were created, and after an original wave of deep sympathy and solidarity with the United States, the world community was deeply divided as a result of the US global war on terror. Norway quickly joined the US war in Afghanistan, and the debate that led to Norway’s most extensive foreign operation must be said to be something one cannot be particularly proud of, no matter what attitude one had toward Norway’s involvement at that time. I believe that the war illustrated one of the challenges with Norway's NATO membership, because one treated a brutal terrorist attack as an expression of a conventional and summary form of warfare by using Article 5 of NATO. I don't think I'm taking too seriously, and I don't think so many people will disagree when I say that many Norwegian politicians' relationship with the war and the use of power that we took in 2001 were characterized by naivety and a lack of willingness to get into both the reality of Afghanistan and the war. When a big debate was finally held on Norway's participation in December 2001 – under pressure from the Party of Advancement and SV – my party was almost ridiculed for our warnings against a long and bloody war. When I say that, it's not to say what I said, but it's a confession that all parties and all politicians – both those who were in favour, and those who opposed the war – have had to learn a lot in the last ten years. Much of that knowledge we should have had in advance. The war is won, now the peace remains to be won, said Hilde Frafjord Johnson of the Christian People's Party in December 2001. You couldn't have done more wrong than that. Tens of thousands of people have lost their lives in Afghanistan and Pakistan now twelve years later. Large military resources have been used, and 8 000 courageous Norwegian men and women have served in Afghanistan. Let me first point out that political disagreement about the involvement in Afghanistan does not in any way imply any less respect or honour to all those who have taken the greatest risk and have borne a heavy burden on Norway. It should be unnecessary to point out, but it is now a debate we have had in Norway. I think that is a pity, because we have a duty to discuss thoroughly how, when and where our democracy is going to use its most far-reaching instruments. Ten Norwegian soldiers have lost their lives for Norway in Afghanistan, although 140 have been injured. We remember the falsified together – and think about, and have to take care of, they hurt together. It goes without saying that a war with such a complicated and changing rational, so extensive combat acts and over so long has to be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated. Was it right to go in? What are the consequences locally, regionally and for ourselves over time? What have we done right, and what have we done wrong? These are questions to which the Norwegian society is obliged to apply for answers and to which we have an obligation to apply for answers. I fully agree with the rapporteurs. So is the situation in Afghanistan changing rapidly. I also think the proposals put forward in the Left have a good point in the fact that important information and learning can be lost. Therefore, I would not have disagreed if we had started such a work now. But I'm recording that there's a big disagreement about the Storting, and that there's no majority for such work now. I want to pay tribute to the Left, and not least because the Left, when they ruled the country, was not willing to take this debate. That they are willing to go through the recognition process now, I think it is very positive, and I think it is very good that both the majority of the population and – not least – the foreign minister so clearly warn that it is natural to come back to an overall evaluation of the whole effort in Afghanistan. It's also going to be a driver for. It may be uncomfortable for a peace nation like Norway to realize the real reality of the war behind the speeches, press releases and press releases over 12 years. But that's what we have to do, both for the population of Afghanistan and for the 8,000 Northmen and the Defense who have served there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e553	Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan is high and has remained for many years. Let me make it clear: the Christian People's Party believes that this must be carefully evaluated. Like all other parties in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we are open to it. Yes, we are looking forward to the evaluation coming. We certainly have a lot to learn from it. This concerns both the civil development aid for Afghanistan, the support for the political process, and not least for the military commitment we have had for over ten years. In a letter from the government to the Committee, we were informed early that it felt that an evaluation should not be carried out until 2014. That year marks an important milestone in the need for Afghan security forces to take over their primary responsibility for the security of the country. Large foreign forces are in the process of being withdrawn, but far from being completely withdrawn. We take note that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that such an evaluation should not be launched until 2014. At the same time, we are pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of an evaluation and states in the Committee's position that 'the intention of the proposers for a comprehensive review will be respected'. That the Christian People's Party is positive for an evaluation, we were also confirmed at our national meeting at the end of April. It was decided that the Christian People's Party would have a broad evaluation of Afghanistan's efforts. In the Christian People's Party, we have noted that NORAD has already provided for a thorough evaluation of civil development assistance over the last decade. That evaluation was completed last year and had both critical and constructive conclusions. The next step must be a more comprehensive review, in which both development assistance, the political process and military commitment to security are evaluated in the context. On our side, we can imagine that the Stortinge gives us the opportunity to discuss the premises and the framework for such an assessment. The proposal of the left gives some constructive input to it, but there are probably more. There will certainly be evaluations of NATO's overall contribution in Afghanistan. We must therefore clarify to what extent we should limit an evaluation to Norwegian efforts. It may be too narrow a mandate. It is also important to consider how Norway has used its potential to influence the strategic choices made for the international community’s contribution to development assistance, policy development and military strategies. With regard to Norway’s specific contribution, it may be worth considering their inclusion in the overall strategy of the international alliance and their relationship with the Afghan authorities. An interesting question about military engagement is how Norway took advantage of the space for action we had in the common overall strategy. The experience of working with other partners can also be valuable to carry on with them – because if the tasks change, many of the partners may be the same. I mention these issues most to illustrate the importance of clarifying the framework for the evaluation to come. The value of an evaluation will depend on the mandate, independence and competence of the investigators. The preparation of such an evaluation task requires consideration and time for consultations. Now it's just a summer vacation and a government change again, and then we're at the beginning of 2014. The value of such an evaluation is not only about post-war — there will probably be more than enough of it — but it is also about providing the best possible basis for experience-based strategic choices for the continuation of Norwegian assistance in the coming years, the future political process for creating stability and better governance and working for a lasting improvement in the security situation of a people suffering from internal conflict and war, terror and gross violations of fundamental human rights over many decades. It's a long way to go until the people of Afghanistan get to live in something that looks like peace, prosperity and security. So it's important that we make wise choices for the future, and that we learn from history.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e579	The Committee's comments and the position are brief and, fortunately, there is exemplary agreement and agreement in this matter. We all ring around the engagement our soldiers – women and men – still do today in Afghanistan. Although the international community has begun to phase out its involvement in Afghanistan, there is still a complex international operation to counter international terrorism in Afghanistan. I have said this before: a thorough evaluation and a comprehensive review of the efforts in Afghanistan will take place, but this will happen after we have completed the main part of our efforts in the country, not in the midst of a difficult situation, as it is still in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e586	Unfortunately, the left is not represented in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence during this period, but as rapporteur, I would like to add some comments to the vote we are debating today. Let me first point out that this one case left has been concerned with a long time. Despite the long-standing Norwegian presence in Afghanistan, which is now partly towards the end, so far no initiative has been taken for a comprehensive and systematic review of this commitment. At the same time, we know that everyone who has been in Afghanistan, both military and civilian, has important experience and knowledge to gather and systematize. This is one of the reasons why we have promoted the proposal. It is important to have openness around what has worked, and to be humble about what should have been done differently. Secondly, we believe that we owe the Norwegian soldiers and others who have contributed in Afghanistan a proper and public feedback on what their contributions have meant. Thirdly, it is essential to establish the state of Norway’s efforts so far — in order to adjust the mechanism for the continuation of efforts, if necessary, but also to be better prepared for similar operations if Norway is asked to contribute forces beyond NATO’s traditional core area in the future. A review such as we are calling for should, among other things, include: have a mandate to evaluate the initial mission of Norway to: strategic and operational, cooperation and coordination between civil and military engagement, the security situation of Norwegian personnel and the follow-up of personnel upon completion of their mission. The evaluation should also include veterinary follow-up. Most of those who come home from missions in Afghanistan are doing fine. However, it should not be forgotten that such a mission is inherent in a risk of both physical and mental damage, and it is the responsibility of the Norwegian State to ensure that those who have suffered such damage receive the assistance and follow-up they need. I'm glad more people have been into this today. We believe it is an independent objective that the evaluation carried out is comprehensive. This means that all aspects related to Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan must be considered, as well as ensuring independence from the government in such a review. In this room, there have been earlier objections that such a review will be premature, given that Norway will continue to have some military involvement in Afghanistan during the coming period, and that Norway’s civil assistance exposure will continue at a high level. I disagree. This should be without prejudice to starting an overall review and evaluating Norway’s efforts so far. This can provide valuable insight into how to improve Norway's involvement in the coming period. The civil part of Norway’s presence, which will account for the majority of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan in the future, will obviously benefit from this. Furthermore, it has been argued against such a review that this could mean giving a wrong signal to the men and women serving and serving in Afghanistan. The left does not share such an opinion, rather the opposite. I would like to stress that the proposal to evaluate the efforts, inter alia: has been promoted because of all the recordings that have been made by those who have done the job — either military or civil — in Afghanistan, and who have said that it is important to have a proper review of the mission they have performed. We owe them that. The letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to the Committee on the proposal states that it will be ‘natural to come back to the question of a review of the whole effort’ once the transition process has been completed by the end of 2014. The Committee has agreed to this, and the Committee therefore considers that the intentions of our proposal have been respected. However, I do not agree that it is necessary to wait until after 2014, but I believe that the process of a comprehensive review should already be initiated. I have also noticed that other opposition parties, especially the Christian People's Party, have gone a long way in addressing this in the media. I therefore expect the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of our proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber. The proposal that has been distributed is, of course, – in case of doubt – what is going on. In conclusion to the representative Sverre Myrli: Independence means that we want an unrelenting review with many actors. So Stortinget will of course evaluate this in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e618	Does the representative wish to address this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e621	Yeah, I did so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e627	The representative Borghild Tenden then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e630	I want to start by saying that I fully support and fully agree with the assessment made by the Committee. It is absolutely essential that we in Norway have a proper, thorough, open and honest review — an evaluation of what we have been involved in in Afghanistan. I think it is also right to say that the evaluation should be carried out at the most appropriate time, namely when the operations we are now involved in are completed. It's not now. I want to underline a point that the committee leader very clearly and correctly – in my view correctly – stated: it is not that it is almost over, it is actually now that we are entering the most important phase. That's when the transition itself happens. That is not what we did in isolation in 2008 or 2002 – or 2012 for that matter – that is the main point of our efforts. It was preparing the Afghans to take over the responsibility themselves, and that's exactly the phase we've now gone into. In my opinion, it's strangest question to evaluate the mission. It's kind of like evaluating the construction of a house while you're almost done, but you haven't put it on the roof – so to conclude that it's raining in. That's why I think it's right, as the committee says, to add that we're doing this once the mission is completed. Then we will continue to deal with Afghanistan for many years to come, but that is what I believe needs to be evaluated. It's in this light that we can say what was right, what was wrong, what should be repeated, and what should not be repeated. I'm already quite sure that we're going to find a lot of learning in things where you've found good solutions, which you'd like to go on about repeating a new, similar operation. I'm just as sure that we're going to do a lot of findings on things that should be done differently. I would like to say – and I have worked with Afghanistan daily and with Norwegian Afghanistan policy, no matter what title I have had, since 2005 – that there has been a lot of learning going on. Firstly, the defense runs massive self-learning all the time. It's in the nature of the defense, it's called "Lessons Learned", and it's a lot of driving. There have been many adjustments in doctrine and device along the way – as the Minister of Defence will say more about it. There has been a significant adjustment in understanding how civil efforts are to be organised. There you have tried, failed, and adjusted. I would already like to inform you that when we come to the next presentation, i.e. on June 4th with debate June 6, I am going to spend a lot of my time talking about the summary of the so-called PRT concept, because it is about to end now. Not only is our PRT now closed, but most of the others are or are in the very final phase. There are already some observations to take. There I agree with the chairman of the committee: we may disagree on what conclusion we draw, but it is an important discussion to make. So there's been a lot of work to understand the importance of involving groups that were originally excluded. Norway was one of the countries that first said it had to be a form of dialogue with the Taliban. We were about alone. Now everyone agrees on that, from Afghan authorities to Americans and everyone else. We were also early in saying that we needed a more regional perspective. It's now read and adopted as truth. There has been considerable self-learning in other countries and in our country, and I believe that we have made wise observations along the way that we should summarise when the time comes. But the most important point for me is that such an evaluation, which should otherwise be firmly anchored in the Stortinget – it is the Stortinget that has made decisions, it is the Stortinget that has sent out, and that does not mean that one should not draw any other competence, but the summary must finally be done here in this Chamber, as I understand our democratic system – must take into account that there are limits to Norway’s scope of action. Norway is a member of the United Nations. It is the Security Council that has created the political framework for action in Afghanistan. After all, it was the acceptance of the Security Council by the United States of America of the self-defence requirement under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter and then the UN mandate to ISAF that left the political framework, political responsibility. So it's in NATO and ISAF that the military and strategic decisions have been made. Norway is one of the Member States, but decisions are not taken individually by each country. So the evaluation can not only evaluate Norway, but must understand Norway in the broad context in which Norway is involved, when we enter into such an operation within the framework of the UN and NATO. In the end, what we do have to take into account is that very many Norwegians have set up. Soldiers – more than 8 000 – aid workers, diplomats and people from non-governmental organisations have stood up for many years, and it is incredibly important, no matter how we do it, that we show the utmost respect for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e652	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e655	A scientist named Arne Strand at Chr. Michelsens Institute has stated that he fears that substantial information could be lost if one waits for an evaluation. My question will then be, Is the Council of State disagreed with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e660	To the question from the representative Tenden, I would say that, yes, I disagree, precisely because I know how both military and civil organizations actually collect and take care of information already, but we're going to take it with us as a good reminder. Since we now know that everyone agrees that it is to be evaluated, it's just to collect fragments of information right now to take it further, but I'm sure this is so thoroughly documented in both military and civil channels that I'm not really concerned that this information is confusing. It operates, among other things: a significant debriefing of personnel who have held key positions, just as part of the ongoing natural learning which is in any case ongoing during and after such an operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e665	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e668	Our involvement in Afghanistan has been comprehensive, complicated and risky. More than 8,300 Norwegian women and men have served in Afghanistan in the last decade. We have always put great emphasis on strong political and public anchoring for our commitment. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement, I would like to express satisfaction with the Committee's position. When we, together with our allies and partners, engaged in Afghanistan in 2001, our clear and overall mandate, with the support of a unanimous UN Security Council, was to avoid Afghanistan becoming once again a haven for international terrorism. To achieve this goal, we have worked for increased security in the country. We have this, among other things. undertaken through an international military commitment to establish security and to support the establishment of Afghan security forces. So has our joint military effort had an effect? I have to answer that with a clear yes. In the last ten years, the international forces have been repressing al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations have been reduced in Afghanistan. We have also helped the Afghans to ensure security in their own country, and we have contributed to the development and training of Afghan security forces. It is thus a good basis for Afghanistan to take over and take responsibility for its own security in the long term. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that Afghanistan is a complex country with many different powers and a long history of war and conflict. In Faryab this has been particularly clear. There we were able to maintain relative stability, for example. by facilitating weekly dialogue between the parties. At the same time, we were prepared for the conflict and the interests of power to come back more clearly after we withdrew from Faryab. The Afghan authorities are now taking over security responsibilities throughout the country. Today, about 87 psts live. by the Afghan population in areas where security responsibilities have either been transferred or are in the process of being transferred to Afghan forces. The security transfer process will be completed by the end of 2014. This also means that we are approaching the end of the mission undertaken by the international military stabilisation force, ISAF, in December 2001. NATO plans to continue support to Afghanistan in the form of advice and training for Afghan security forces even after the closure of the ISAF operation, but under a new name and a completely new mandate. The defence carries out a continuous review of the military operations in Afghanistan, as well as the follow-up of personnel who have served in the country. The aim has always been to learn, to use it in ongoing operations and to adjust for any new military contribution. During this time we have established in Norway a necessary and comprehensive veterinary policy with a completely different follow-up of the individual soldier, just as a result of this experience. The fact that we have lost ten soldiers in Afghanistan, and that several soldiers have suffered serious injuries, has made it extra important to have a full review of both the military engagement and our second engagement when the time comes. Norway’s military efforts are part of a broad NATO-led international force. Today, 50 countries contribute to ISAF. With regard to an overall assessment of the military operations, the government believes that our military engagement must be seen in a holistic context. Our commitment has also changed over time in line with developments on the ground and will be further changed towards – and after – the closure of ISAF at the end of 2014. It is therefore natural that the final evaluation process should be carried out at a later stage and that it should also be carried out within the framework of NATO. Much of Norwegian efforts have been in the long-term building of institutions, and the overall results cannot be expected to be seen in the short term. Although we are moving towards the winding-up of ISAF, we must remember that the transition process will not be completed until the end of 2014. Transfer of security responsibilities in some of the most demanding and difficult areas of the East and South remains. Once implemented, it is natural to come back to the issue of a review of the whole effort in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e689	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e692	This debate has shown that there is a broad consensus that we should learn from what we have done in Afghanistan. It is important to bring with it those experiences – I had almost said of course – and then there is disagreement as to which time is most appropriate. Of course, I agree with those who believe that this is not the time to do so. Still, I think we need to think more about what we're going to learn from, and why we're going to learn what we're going to learn. That is where I think the rapporteur's wish for an 'independent and comprehensive review' creates associations – as the representative Sverre Myrli also pointed out – towards an examination, that is, not just learning to improve, but learning to ask: Did we do the right thing? As we have heard, the Council of State emphasizes, and as we have heard all along, not least from the Defence itself and from the Chief of Defence: the defence has learned all along, and they have adjusted working methods, equipment, etc. In the light of their experience from the outset and beyond, but also in the light of changes in the situation, including in the light of changes in the mission – from creating security and maintaining security to now training Afghan security forces and leaving it to them. Civil efforts have been continuously evaluated in the same way. Why do we have to learn? Well, to get better in new operations we had to be called to. Even though they're likely to be different, it could also be learning to pick up. That learning must be done continuously, but I do not think it can be done independently of those who were in the job. Is there anything in the vicinity of a sort of review you want – if it was right to go in, if it was right for Norway to participate? It is a political issue that this House has to consider. It was and has been broad support all along. There are no independent bodies that can review the decisions of the Storting, but it can be assessed whether the operation as a whole has been optimal, whether there was a proper balance between military, civil and political efforts over these ten years. Was our optimism too high in relation to what was to be achieved – in addition to preventing Afghanistan from remaining a place of international terrorism? Were we too optimistic in the belief that we could transform Afghanistan into a more stable and democratic society? These are also important assessments to make, but again: this cannot be done by looking at Norway’s efforts alone. We were one of some and forty countries, and it was despite all the American footprint that was the strongest, that has been the strongest, and that will be the strongest even when we now go into a new phase after 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e705	I think today's debate has been very good, I think we've put important issues on the agenda, and we're pretty much in agreement, but there's some shades and little neighbor that separates us. I also think this is a good debate on Afghanistan; the approach is somewhat different here than in many other Afghanistan debates we have had, and this debate is an example of those who say that there is no debate in the Norwegian uprising about Norway's involvement in Afghanistan is wrong. I also notice that those who are constantly claiming this in the press, once again glistening with their absence when the Stortinge is debating something that has to do with Afghanistan. As I said, I think the debate has been very good. We agree on most things – just a little disagreement about the time. Then I also think it is gratifying that Left's speeches made it clear that it is the Storting that is responsible for our commitment to Afghanistan being reviewed and evaluated. I also noticed that Left’s speeches – unless I overheard something – did not use the term ‘independent’ in her post, until she finally commented on what I said in my first post. So, as I said, with some shades, we agree that we should do this in a proper and proper way, and it is the Stortinge that is responsible for review and evaluation. In the end, I just want to clarify and re-use for a few seconds the term ‘independent’: no one is independent in these questions! There is no independent perception of whether it was right for Norway to contribute to the ISAF force. There is no independent perception of the Norwegian military contribution. Should we contribute vehicles, with airplanes, with helicopters? There are no independent views on it. Should our assistance be arranged like this? There are arguments for, and there are arguments against, and there are different shades, but there are no independent opinions! That's my point. With these words, and now that the debate will hopefully be over soon, I will end by saying that I think we should find good solutions to this, and we will learn from our contribution in Afghanistan. And let me just underline once again – and there I also think the committee leader had very good points – that we are far from Afghanistan. We're still going to have a strong presence in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e719	Before the debate is over, the President will also give the floor to the representative Borghild Tenden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e722	I'm going to be very short, but I had to take the floor, because I had a feeling that some – a few – tried to add something other than what was meant by our proposal, and the debate has not convinced me either; I still don't understand why you can't start parts of the evaluation. An evaluation consists of several parts, and this could be started now, and that is – as I also said in my post – a strong wish from those in the job, as the representative Hansen spoke so warmly about in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e727	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e743	The world is failing the disabled every day. Global efforts are needed to include people with disabilities in the international work being done, and not least to make disabled people the target group for foreign and development policy. That's the background for me lifting this case today in the form of this interpellation. We want action. Prejudice and lack of resources are the biggest obstacles faced by people with disabilities. At present, nine out of ten disabled people in poor countries lack access to schooling and education. The background for this is both structural and individual: it is about economics, access to school and education, people living in war and conflict areas, but also attitudes, shame and real discrimination. Many of the reasons are also that parents and their surroundings may lack faith that young people with disabilities should be able to cope in school. The consequence is that they get isolated at home, with few opportunities for work, family and social life. So if you're so unhappy to be born disabled in a poor family in the slum in Kampala, Rio or Yangon in a big sibling's pack, you're almost doomed to lose. We have to do something about this. And when I say "we," I mean the entire international community, including Norway. The Norad report ‘Mainstreaming disability in the new development paradigm’ states that Norway has failed to include disabled people in its international aid work over the last ten years. The evaluation concludes that there has been a lack of willingness to work to include these people in Norway’s international work, and that this may never have been a real priority among the authorities either. It may also be that Norway has done more than the report shows; it is, after all, a review in only four countries, yet it is unacceptable for us in our foreign and development policy to fail those who sit at the very bottom of the table when the goods are distributed – the disabled. Unfortunately, there are many examples of why it is important to address this: Of the 10 pst. in the world that doesn't go to school, nine out of ten are disabled. Of the world's disabled, 70 lives. in developing countries and 82 pst. lives below the poverty line, according to UN statistics. Women with disabilities are very vulnerable to violence and sexual assault. The attackers may take advantage of the fact that women are blind, deaf or unable to move, and thus do not perceive a danger or can tell us who the attacker is. Disabled women who get married become completely dependent on the husband taking care of them in many countries. If he decides to stop taking care of her, and she doesn't have a family to set up, she might be sentenced to a life on the street. Disabled persons are highly vulnerable to trafficking in human beings and to trafficking in organs. Disabled persons are more likely to be victims of violence than others. In many countries, disability is seen as a type of punishment, with the consequence that the disabled person himself or the whole family is excluded from the community. Wars, landmines, measles, polio and other diseases continue to create new disabilities. Disabled persons are foreign policy, and the ratification of the UN Convention is an opportunity that we cannot allow ourselves to lift disabled persons in foreign policy in general and in Norwegian aid in particular. On 23 September, the UN will discuss how disabled people can be included in the new Millennium Goals. I hope for a strong Norwegian voice. In the Single European Act, Parts to create the disabled as an important target group. I'm very happy about that. As is also stated in the Storing Communication: Norwegian development policy is rights-based. While respecting the rights of its citizens is the responsibility of each country, Norwegian development policy shall support the work of the international and national dialogue. This is well described in the Storing Message. Norway supports rights work for disabled people directly, for example: by supporting the organisations of persons with disabilities. Equal opportunities are an important model, as are assistance projects directly through the organisations of the disabled. But if one is to succeed even better than today, we need to support the organisations of disabled people also locally and also build this part of civil society. The Communication also warns that work on the rights of people with disabilities will in particular be given priority in relevant areas such as education, humanitarian aid, health and women's activities. I agree with this, of course, but at the same time I think it is important to address these issues with an open mind. It may also be relevant, important and also simply to include disabled people as a target group in other sectors. So what does it have to do? For the Labour Party, we believe in a combination of a broad strategy and targeted action. It has been the recipe here at home when we have worked for better facilities and opportunities for people with disabilities in Norway. It must also be on the agenda now. The new Millennium Goals, which we will discuss in the next interpellation debate, must also address disabled people as an important target group for work. One does not succeed in combating poverty without a clear addressing of these challenges. More important than including people with disabilities is that countries themselves include people with disabilities. But it's like it's always with the pink elephant in the room: someone has to talk about it and bring it to the field. It must be a responsibility for Norway and for other donor countries. We need to do what we can to prevent new disabilities from occurring in the background of war, conflict and disease. We also need to learn from the successful projects, and good measurement methods must be developed and the facts of what we have achieved at all times. I also think that we need appropriations for civil society and cohabitation, but we also need clear demands for organisations. We simply need to mobilize a broad alliance to succeed. Today, there are still too few organisations that are raising this issue, so we need to prioritise the involvement of organisations even more strongly in order to succeed in the work ahead. We also fully agree that we must give priority to work on rights, health and education. After all, it's all the most important sectors to address. I said instead that Norwegian development policy is rights-based. We all agree on that, and it is up to any country itself to care for its citizens, but it is important that Norwegian development policies focus and support during that work on the international and national agenda. The question is: What opportunities does the Council of State see for improving the international situation of people with disabilities, and what does the Council of State intend to do to ensure that people with disabilities can become a clearer target group for Norwegian policy internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e810	It's, as the interpellant Laila Gustavsen said, about a billion people, which equals about 15 pst. by the population of the world living with some form of disability. They are over-represented in poor population groups and in conflict countries, and they are particularly vulnerable to discrimination and exclusion. In order to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals – which we will discuss a little more in the debate afterwards – and to ensure sustainable development and fair distribution, people with disabilities need to be included. That is precisely why, in the big message I presented earlier in our report on democracy, fair distribution and growth in development policy, we state that Norway should work for disabled people through national and international dialogue. The big message says: ‘Norwegian development policy is rights-based. It is the responsibility of each country to respect the rights of its citizens, but Norwegian development policy should focus and support this work in the international and national dialogue. Norway supports rights work for disabled people directly, for example by supporting the organisations of disabled people. Work on the rights of people with disabilities will be given particular priority in relevant areas such as education, humanitarian aid, health and women’s activities.’;» In other words, international human rights are the normative basis for Norwegian development policy. That means that we should work for non-discrimination and for the inclusion of all people, and I will come back to this. I would like to begin by being specific about what we do and want to do of operational work in education, humanitarian work and our work on health and to strengthen women's rights. Then I'll say a little bit more about what we're doing to get the values we're fighting for, internationally. Firstly, we have particularly good experience on which to build, in the area of education and humanitarian aid for people with disabilities. In education, we are particularly concerned about giving children access to primary schools in conflict and disaster-affected areas, because here the proportion of children with disabilities is higher than elsewhere, and children with disabilities account for one third of the children without education. In our budget for this year, Norway has allocated 75 million. extra to reach children in crisis and conflict so that they can also be granted their right to education. In Nepal, we are systematically putting young people with special needs on the agenda between donors and authorities. In order to get through, we depend entirely on reliable information, which we, among other things, do. sheep from the Atlas Alliance here in Norway. A campaign directed by Redd Barna against marginalised groups contributed to 650 new children being enrolled in school, including 59 disabled children and 212 with a low caste background — Dalitians. It's the same thing that Operation Dagsverk last year had an commitment to be able to support in Nepal. It is important that all actors involved in assistance work in their work include issues related to people with disabilities. This concerns the management of support for organisations working with education, including: in calls, in applications and in reporting. The other area I think it's important to bring forward is our humanitarian effort, because here it's important to raise people with disabilities. Norway participates in the international work of the Mines Convention and the Classammunition Convention, and we work for fewer people to be hit by destructive weapons. This year Norway has the presidency of the Convention on Classammunition. This leadership role is used to raise the victims and highlight that their situation is a human rights issue affecting a much larger group of people with disabilities. It is also important that Norwegian humanitarian actors have competence and awareness about the integration of disabled people into their work. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will therefore engage in dialogue with strategic partners in humanitarian work in order to obtain a systematic approach to the problem of planning, documentation and reporting the efforts of people with disabilities in different projects. We know that's what we're asking, that's what gets focused on, and that's why it's important for us to ask how the job is done to people with disabilities. It is not necessarily difficult to provide for all disabled persons to have the same opportunities as all others. These may include vocational training, credit schemes, training and job placement to strengthen their ability to provide self-sufficiency in the event of humanitarian crises. Norway supports the International Red Cross mine appeal and the Special Fund for Disabled People. They offer physical rehabilitation to my victims, and work to reduce the physical, social and economic burden of mines and other explosives on individuals and communities. Norway supports the rehabilitation of mine victims in many countries and also works internationally for the victims of armed violence. Equality is at the heart of our government's development work. People with disabilities are also important here. Women with disabilities often experience double discrimination. Unfortunately, they often experience – just as Laila Gustavsen was in there – abuse. The UN Secretary-General's global strategy for women and children will lead the Norwegian priorities in the future. The strategy should strengthen both women and health services targeted at women in the 49 poorest countries. During the year’s meeting of the UN Commission on Women, which had violence against women as its main theme, Norway worked to identify girls and women with disabilities as particularly vulnerable individuals. We succeeded in ensuring that the final declaration of the Women's Commission underlined the need to work, promote and protect the rights of women with disabilities. Over to part of the other work that we are doing: first let me underline how important cooperation with civil society is when we try to lift this matter internationally. The Atlas Alliance, Norway’s umbrella organisation for the work of disabled people, is an important partner in the work of disabled people and is allocated 81 million this year. kr for their work. It is important that other civil society actors are also aware of the need to include this group and that they know how best to do so. In our normative work, I want to draw out three different tracks. One is the governing bodies of the main international organisations, which, after all, manage large sums of money and do important work. It's international law and human rights, as well as the need to create more detailed facts. In the United Nations, we are active where we participate. Among other things, we have listed the rights of disabled persons on the board of the UNICEF. UNICEF is one of these two UN organisations that receives the most money from Norway. That is what we do to ensure an overall approach to the subject and to anchor the inclusion of people with disabilities in institutions with international recognition. If UNICEF goes ahead in this area, many others will follow. Also in the meetings of UNESCO, UN Women and the World Health Organization, Norway is increasing the emphasis on the need, and we will continue to do so to include people with disabilities and to ensure that organisations are aware of the sort of expectations we have for their efforts. WHO — The World Health Organisation — is important. It is important and made itself important with the Disability resolution adopted at the Governing Board meeting in January, which is finally discussed at the Health Assembly, which is now right around the corner, in May. The resolution supported by Norway contains concrete recommendations to Member States to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to adopt action plans, to collect statistics, to strengthen rehabilitation, but also to provide support to this work to Member States. That's the way we can help to make sure to talk about the pink elephant in the room, as Laila Gustavsen said. In order to contribute to an overall UN effort, Norway has decided to support those funds, a multi-donor fund, to the UN partnership to promote the rights of people with disabilities, with 3 million. kr in 2013. The second point that I want to draw out is the rights of the disabled. Unfortunately, we still see access to this subject from a medical or welfare point of view, and not from a rights point of view. We believe that this is out-of-date and contributes to undermining important principles of dignity, equality and non-discrimination. Because today there are 130 countries that have ratified the Convention for people with disabilities, and I am pleased that the Stortinget has now decided that Norway will ratify the Convention for the summer. The Convention is important to include people with disabilities in Norway, but it will also guide us and oblige us to include people with disabilities in developing countries, both normatively and in the work we do in the field. An important mechanism for keeping authorities responsible is the land hearings of the UN Human Rights Council, also known as the UPR, or the Universal Periodic Review. We make diligent use of the right to ask questions, and we see that the conditions for people with disabilities are an aspect that we should include to a greater extent in those country hearings. We also have a job to do from the Norwegian side. We are working in these days on a review of development cooperation to assess more precisely how we can include people with disabilities in development work in an even better way. We collect information from the civil society organisations, and we develop a guide for rights-based development cooperation, where people with disabilities and work with them have a role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e862	Thank you to the Minister for Development for a good and satisfying answer. I am very pleased with what the Minister for Development says that the Convention will commit Norway. I think that's a very correct approach. Using the work now done on the Convention in all the countries that ratify is, in fact, a very important break to put the situation of people with disabilities on the agenda in the different countries. I also think there are important signals that the Council of State gives – that the Millennium Goals must also include disabled people, as one of the perspectives. In particular, it is important that all beneficiaries of support within priority Norwegian areas should include disabled people in the planning of the projects. I think it can help create a broad alliance to get this important theme lifted up in the future. So the government councils were inside the World Health Organization and what's going on in the United Nations. What is also happening in the UN, in the WHO and to the extent in the World Bank, is developing indicators to measure the development of people with disabilities. Nor do the OECD have criteria for this. Last year, the OECD organised a conference on Aid Effectiveness. The final document contained, inter alia: emphasising recipient-based cooperation, emphasising measurable development and good indicators, and the effectiveness of all assistance. The OECD also states that disabled people should be an important group to take into account. We know that as disabled people are among the poorest in the world, improvement for people with disabilities must actually be possible to measure. A very concrete task will then be to follow up with the OECD and others and to develop indicators so that the actions we put in place, take and reach people with disabilities. We could, for example, have proposed that the OECD investigate this issue. So the Minister for Development was in the middle of the high-level meeting to be held in September of this year, with the theme of disability and development policy. I am pleased that the Minister for Development stresses that Norway should be active, even this time. The question is what does the Minister for Development think of activities — in what way will Norway be active in the context of the September high-level meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e877	Some of the things that are extremely important were Laila Gustavsen, the question of indicators and facts. We know how it works. The dilemma in all kinds of assessments and measurement systems is: what you ask for, and what you measure, is what you get involved in delivering. It has two sides. One side is that it's not always the measuring indicators are good enough, and so you're measuring it wrong. It is also extremely important to have measurement indicators in order to measure whether you achieve what you want. That is why I fully agree that we are working to develop good measurement indicators in all kinds of organisations where standards are set, as in the OECD and in the World Bank. That's where this is important to include. So I want to say one more thing: we had a visit from Anthony Lake, the UNICEF boss, last week -- he's a good guy. He drew out one thing in particular, as the representative Gustavsen also pulled out in his post. The problem is that if you reach a lot of people with e.g. education, but not all, is usually the weakest groups, those who live far away from cities, those with disabilities, who fall outside. That's why – and I'm very concerned about the new Millennium Goals – first of all, you have to have a policy where you're busy reaching everyone, not just everyone, but everyone. If not, the weakest ones will fall out at the end. Secondly, you have to make sure you measure whether you actually succeed in doing this along the way. His point was very simple: when we look at the Millennium Goals and look at who, for example. have received school, there are very many who have received school, but sometimes it can be seen that it almost contributes to increasing the inequalities between those who receive school and those who do not receive school, because those who were weaker initially have not received access to services. Therefore, free services – free schooling, free preferred services, the things there – are absolutely essential and that we constantly have those who have the most difficult as a starting point when creating the systems. But «fact detection» is extremely important. We are working with the Statistical Central Agency and the World Health Organisation, which are receiving more support for the identification of the living conditions of disabled people in detail, in particular access to health services, work, transport and education. It's important work. I just want to end by saying that it's a long way to go before people with disabilities have equal opportunities to participate in society, but I think that both at home and in the world we're going to take our share of responsibility for equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e890	The world is failing the disabled every day. Unfortunately, so does the Norwegian Government. Disabled persons are the world's largest minority, but still have too little place in Norwegian development policy. One in five world citizens, over a billion people, have some form of disability. Estimates from the World Health Organisation and the World Bank show that almost 200 million people with disabilities in poor countries experience major difficulties in their everyday lives. Today, we know a lot about the situation of people with disabilities, both here in Norway and in other parts of the world. From being a group that in many cases has been hidden, often institutionalised and morbidized, people with disabilities here in Norway have become more prominent social actors. In our country today, many disabled people are active in politics and business, and we also have very active organisations for the disabled, which are important voices in the social debate. Unfortunately, the situation is not the same in poor countries. It has, among other things, confirmed by the World report on disability, launched by the World Health Organisation and the World Bank in 2011. This report documents and highlights the situation for people with disabilities globally — and it is thought-provoking reading. Through the large amount of work done in this survey, the WHO now estimates that people with disabilities account for about one billion people. That's 15 pst. by the population of the world, and the number is increasing due to ageing population, chronic diseases, natural disasters, lack of health care and conflicts. World report on disability also highlights the differences between people with disabilities in rich and poor countries and that these differences are increasing. The report shows that disability is more common in the poor part of the world than in the richest. At the same time, the report states that people with disabilities live more often than others in poverty, have lower education, lower labour participation and poorer access to health services and rehabilitation, as some of the challenges. In fact, UNESCO now estimates that 90–95 pst. by all disabled children in developing countries may not attend school. By employing more people with disabilities, the GDP of poor countries could increase by up to 7 p.m., according to the ILO. Through development cooperation, Norway has the opportunity to facilitate the provision of assistance to disabled children and adults in poor countries. Despite previous developments from Stortinget, Norwegian development policy has failed to reach people with disabilities. This confirms a large evaluation of Norwegian assistance carried out in 2012 by the Nordic Consulting Group on behalf of Norad. The evaluation demonstrates that the Norwegian authorities have ignored Storting’s decision to promote disabled people as a human rights theme in development cooperation. In fact, the report goes so far as to say that the government has deliberately omitted the rights of disabled people as a theme of Norwegian development cooperation. This concerns both the bilateral and multilateral assistance provided by Norway and assistance channelled through civil society. The report further indicates that Norwegian education assistance has not included disabled children in its pursuit of contributing to the achievement of UN Millennium Development Goal 2: Ensuring education for all. Norway has also stopped asking for disability care in the projects and programmes supported by Norad and the U.D. in recent years. I can still enjoy positive words from the Council of State and add that the Council of State and this government are judged on the basis of actions – not words. The poverty reduction objective cannot be achieved if disabled people are not included in measures to ensure sustainable development, poverty reduction and human rights. We will not achieve the objective of better health and gender equality if we do not put this work in focus and incorporate disability as a cross-cutting theme into Norwegian aid. This must be done by means of clear political and administrative requirements for beneficiaries of Norwegian assistance. No requirements have yet been imposed on beneficiaries of Norwegian aid — neither Norwegian organisations, UN institutions nor the authorities of poor countries. Should we allow new generations of disabled people to grow up without schooling, health care or work, or they will die in disasters because we do not use the opportunities we have? Mabel from Malawi is 12 years old and deaf blind. When she was born, the mother noticed that she was different from the twin brother. When the brother started school, his parents still didn't know what was wrong with Mabel. She didn't get to start school. The parents took her to a resource center for the blind, where they finally learned that she was deaf-blind. The parents wouldn't accept Mabel's challenges. When the father died, the situation became even more difficult. When Mabel was ten years old, the mother no longer could and took her to the Chisombezi Deafblind Centre, which is supported by the Atlas Alliance. After two years at the center she has learned sign language and other skills she needs to get through life and take care of herself. By taking advantage of the small sight she has, she has now learned to read. This history shows so clearly why Norway must give priority to disabled people and put human rights at the top of our development policy objectives [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e920	The President will recall that speaking time is actually not a minimum time, but a maximum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e923	Disabled people in developing countries are among the most disadvantaged people in the world. They're often translated. They are discriminated against, and they have little place in the development policies of most rich countries. This occurs in particular when development policy is dominated by the thinking of nations rather than by the appreciation of everyone's human dignity and fair distribution. Last year, the place of disabled people in Norwegian development policy was carefully evaluated by the Nordic Consulting Group. The conclusion was relatively critical. The situation and rights of people with disabilities have been given little weight in Norwegian development policy in recent years. The report claims that under 2 pst. Norwegian assistance has included disabled persons. This is why the government is criticised for neglecting a large group of people in poor countries of cooperation. This is not good enough. That is why I want to give tribute to the representative Gustavsen who has raised this interpellation. I hope that we all – across party divisions – use this opportunity to give a clear signal of including the disabled in Norwegian development policies in the coming years. I had great hopes that the new big message, Share to create, would support the evaluation and give concrete and binding promises of a boost to the place of disabled people in Norwegian development policy. In a message of fair distribution, this should be central. I saw a hope for that when I saw on page 18 of the opening chapter the word «disabled» mentioned in a section title on rights. There were two sentences on the matter, and it is worth reading up: ‘Norway supports rights work for people with disabilities directly, for example by supporting disability stakeholder organisations. Work on the rights of people with disabilities will be given particular priority in relevant areas such as education, humanitarian aid, health and women’s activities.’;» This most probably describes what Norway is already doing — to a modest extent — but since it was in the opening chapter, I figured that the two sentences would be followed up by more concrete commitments later in the notification, in the chapters on which it goes into important development tasks more thoroughly. But I have to say that I was disappointed: such a depression is not to be found in the message. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we expect the Committee to consider giving some profound comments on this in its review of the Report. St. 25 for 2012–2013 on development policy. This year, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is ratified by Norway. Norway will then have its obligations under international law strengthened in the work of disabled people. This must be followed up by something more than words and dialogue, even if it belongs to it. It's not enough when it's reported. Paragraph 25 for 2012–2013 reads as follows: ‘It is each country’s own responsibility to respect the rights of its citizens, but Norwegian development policy shall focus and support this work in the international and national dialogue.’ This debate shows that Stortinget has more expectations than words and dialogue. The aid budget provides room for greater efforts in the fight for the disabled. Several non-governmental organisations have pointed this out. The Atlas Alliance, UNICEF Norway and Plan Norway have addressed in a separate letter to the Committee the need to lift the burden on disabled people. We wholeheartedly support this on the part of the Christian People's Party, and we hope that this can be confirmed by the treatment of the developmental bigotry message later in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e948	Persons with disabilities face extensive barriers in health care, education, working life and transport. Reports that we have seen also show that they have poorer health, poorer education and a worse economy than the rest of the population. We also see that when disasters strike, war, armed conflicts or natural disasters, they are the ones that initially have the most difficulty, which is most badly affected at that time. Crickets, hearing aids, prostheses and wheelchairs rarely have a high priority when people have an acute need for help. In particular, disabled children tend to become invisible. Education levels are low — as the Minister for Development said, one third of children are assumed to be uneducated. These children are more vulnerable to sexual exploitation and violence than others. Many are hidden away or forced to feed themselves as beggars. Women, too, get in the butt when the crises hit. Women with disabilities are also subjected to violence and abuse, and not least in a crisis situation it is particularly difficult for them to escape. Therefore, it is time for Norway, which is internationally recognised for its work against violence and abuse against women, to include women with disabilities in this work. Let me also stress that it is important to reach this group in the context of measures on reproductive health for women. In a short time, the Storting decided to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In order to ensure that good wishes are followed up with concrete actions, it is now important that we contribute to the design of clear indicators and the establishment of good reporting practices. It is now time for a shift in aid policy in order to improve the situation of people with disabilities, and in particular for children and women. The question is whether we actually give priority to protecting people with disabilities. I think, unfortunately, that in many cases the answer is no. This is due to attitudes, both in our own country and in the countries with which we cooperate, to people who are perceived as being different, and this may be because assistance to many people with disabilities requires individual treatment and adaptation in situations where thousands of others need help. This is an important debate. I am pleased with the Minister for Development's emphasis on the inclusion of disabled people in development work, and that this inclusion is to be done as a result of a rights-based approach, based on the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Let us jointly contribute to ensuring that people with disabilities are adequately placed in the global effort in the field of education and health, and that we ensure that this group is given special attention when disasters occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e967	I would also like to pay tribute to the interpellant that this interpellant has been put on the agenda, not least since the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has just been ratified by the Stortinge, although it took time, in brackets, to reach. This ratification gives us obligations. The main purpose of the Convention is to ensure equal opportunities for disabled persons to realise their human rights and to reduce obstacles to them. The Convention shall contribute to the fight against discrimination on grounds of disability. Norway has now made itself known to the values described here. These are values in a society, like the Right and I see it, or a normative basis, as the Council of State called it. But the obligations of the resolution do not stop at the national border. These are standards that we want to apply in our society. Then we can do nothing less than think that there are standards and values that we must also want for the communities of others. Interpellant suggests that there has been little international attention, and not least in Norway, on the need to strengthen the work aimed at the disabled. Yes, we may have gone very quietly in the doors, because we haven't really fattened for our own door. As Norway spent about seven years from signing up to ratifying the UN Convention, we haven't even been a country in the first place. The signals we have sent out may well have been: this is not so urgent. Fighters for the rights of people with disabilities in many countries have wanted to be able to hold Norway up as a leading star and have been waiting for our ratification. It was as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said earlier today: the EU listens when Norway has something to tell – so also in this case. But now we're in the process of sweeping at our own door and will have to take an active position as drivers to improve the situation of people with disabilities in those countries where Norway is making an aid effort. The Norad report of 2012 is not a pleasant reading, but provides suggestions and inspiration for what can improve our efforts in this field. The inclusion of disabled people is a human rights issue. It is a challenge that every society must address and that Norway must make clear at all times. Respect for the existing civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of people with disabilities must be required. Many countries have gone a long way in understanding disability. It shall no longer be ‘only’ a health challenge. It is not primarily a social policy issue of aid, but a question of legal equality — yes, human rights. All communities must strive to reduce the barriers to disability. For this reason, Norway must give political priority to this issue in relation to the countries with which it engages in development policy. Norway should also require support for the work of the co-workers and the promoters of the organisations of the disabled. The Atlas alliance has been brought forward in the past. They're good co-players, both here at home and out there. I want the Council of State to take this simple context into account: what is being given attention is getting attention — or what the Council of State itself said: What we are asking is what gets focus. Rights for people with disabilities are a matter of governance, participation, non-discrimination and accountability. There is also an issue of economic and physical infrastructure, but above all a question of attitudes and attention to human rights. To make demands is to take matters seriously, whether it concerns our partners in foreign policy or our own schoolchildren. That is why I hope that the Council of State will take this with me and use the occasion he has now received, both through ratification and through the fact that the subject matter has been put so appropriately on the agenda of the interpellant – which I again commend for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e984	Thank you very much for a good debate. I also want to say that I think it has been an important debate. For the first time during this period, we have raised as a separate topic a debate on disabled people in foreign and development policy, in the form of an inter-pelling debate. Skovholt Gitmark would like to say that it was late, and criticise the government – that is, of course, the main job of the opposition. But it may be neat for one's own part to admit that if one goes through the speeches of the representative Skovholt Gitmark during this period, one sees that the word 'disabled' has not been most often spoken in this representative's speeches either. It came after I had promoted this interpellation. The Right also perceived that this was an important topic. I'm not saying this to hound, I'm saying it because I think we all admit – regardless of party and political affiliation – that we've been too bad. We have done too bad a job lifting this issue – both in Norway and internationally – in our development policy. I am very pleased with the signals of the Council of State, first of all, that he is now planning to develop a kind of strategy, an action plan – one may call it what you want. Including the organisations in this work I think is very important. I am also very pleased with the signals from the Council of State that we are going to be active in all the arenas we have and are represented at, both in the discussion we are about to enter, and in having disabled people as one of the target audiences – to reach everyone in the context of the Millennium Goals. I think the example the Council of State came up with, from UNICEF, was very relevant and very good. But we also have many other arenas where we can deal with this topic, and where we can work on it in a much broader and more thorough way than what we all recognize that we have done in recent years. We have the union management dialogue, which, at least when I was State Secretary in the last period, I experienced was a very important arena to be able to raise important political issues. We have the whole job that the Council of State was working on, which is about what we're doing in the United Nations, and what we're doing to the multilateral organizations. But we also have our embassies as important political meeting places locally, and as important arenas where we can put this on the map. Thank you very much for the debate. I look forward to action in this field in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1000	I can start by saying a thousand thanks to Laila Gustavsen for raising this debate. I see that what Laila Gustavsen does in many contexts is that she sees the need to discuss how disabled people as a group can be included – it has as a clear goal – and is not forgotten in Norwegian development policy. I would like to thank the representative for that. I would also like to pay tribute to Sylvi Graham for a very constructive – in my opinion – post, in which she balances precisely the things that I think it is important to take them further, namely, to look at where we have been too bad, and how can we raise the work in a better way. I just want to stress that I view this as a fundamental human rights issue. That is from what we need to look at the work against discrimination and the work on the ability to live their lives in the same way as all other people. We know about human rights. It is clearly anchored that it is the responsibility of the national State. I think that Peter Skovholt Gitmark's side should be careful to say that the government has failed disabled people every day. First of all, I think that is wrong. Secondly, I think it is important to place responsibility where it is – in each country. We need to do what we can to strengthen groups and organisations working for the rights of people with disabilities, both in Norway and internationally. As I said, the Atlas Alliance will have 81 million. kr and is one of the major organisations that receive. It's because they're a civil society organisation, which thus has the ability to build alliances in other countries – and do the job where it's needed. It's limited what we can do in Norway, but we're going to do what we can. People have to mess up and do the job themselves. That's why I have very strong faith in civil society. The reason we carried out the evaluation was to look at how we can do the job better. The evaluation came last year. There it points to the places where this has worked well. Our support has made a very clear contribution in many countries to building strong user organisations and organisations working for the rights of people with disabilities. I think that is crucial. The second is that one comes up with a series of suggestions on how we can do a better job. We'll take that ball. We've been in dialogue with the organizations. We will continue to be in dialogue with the civil society organisations in Norway in order to obtain input until we present how we will work on this in the future. One of the things that's announced, I just repeat: we're going to make a guide on how to do the work, so that everyone who works with Norwegian assistance knows how best to work for the rights of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1015	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1031	We are living in an exciting time, when the new development targets that will apply after 2015 will be designed. We don't know exactly what they'll look like at last, but the work is going on too fully. It is important that Norway gives clear priorities as to what we think they should include. During the Rio+20 conference last year, it was decided that new sustainable development objectives should be set in order to see different things in context and that the objectives should be universal. It's important and good. Distribution and economic growth are prerequisites for country development. I don't think assistance will get people out of permanent poverty. This has to happen through changes in individual countries. Unfortunately, we see that in too many countries experiencing economic growth, people are not able to get the population out of poverty. 1.2 billion people live in extreme poverty. Over 70 pst. of which they live in middle-income countries. This is a result of unfair inland distribution. That reality is important to take over. For too long, we may have focused too much on country-to-country distribution and not as much on domestic distribution. Unfortunately, differences within countries have almost become a global trend. That, I think, needs to be reflected in development policy. It is necessary to increase the international agenda and to be seen in the context of the work on the new Millennium Goals. In the near future, the Storting shall deal with the Storing Notice of Distribution, Parts to create. This message addresses these challenges. I think it's good that the government will have a strategy to achieve sustainable growth and to improve the economic distribution. Intermediate countries cannot expect assistance in the future. On the contrary, they must realise that at some point it will end and they must take responsibility for their own inhabitants, i.e. ensure them good services such as education and health, jobs for increased employment and, in particular, have a sustainable tax system. Many of the countries that have had economic growth have a workforce where there are large income differences. This means that many never receive their education, it affects people's opportunities, and it affects the quality of life. I therefore believe that in the design of the new Millennium Goals, distribution must be part of the perspective used, and that fair distribution must come within its own development goal. Norway has good experience in creating and sharing, but that's not how other countries can just copy our way of doing things. It is important that we share our experience with the countries that want it. In addition, it is important that countries in the south also share experiences with each other, and that is why I believe that what is contained in the distribution message to support and contribute to financing such cooperation is good. If countries are to be given fairer distribution, it must be a desired policy. People's ability to organize, to participate in society and to make changes from below is necessary for that to happen. Democracy is a prerequisite, and for more democracy there is a need to strengthen civil society and support those who work for democracy and human rights. I believe that supporting employees' and employers' organisations for a more orderly and decent working life is also an important and good thing. Norway has been one of the countries that have worked for energy to be high on the development policy agenda. When 20 pst. electricity is not available to the world's population, we have a challenge, perhaps especially in terms of job creation. Therefore, I believe that access to energy should be one of the new areas that should be included in the new Millennium Goals. Many countries also have access to large natural resources, but they have not necessarily managed them in a good way. No country can decide how other countries should take care of their resources, but a country such as Norway has a natural prerequisite for sharing experience, not least how it is possible for the whole population to benefit from the resources it has and how it is possible to use the tax system to achieve a fairer distribution. Oil for development and tax for development are programmes I believe are sensible contributions in that context. Food security and sustainable agriculture are central to country growth and development. At a time when there is a shortage of resources, pressures on food and climate change, food production in the world will be directly affected, and this is serious. In addition, this has a female dimension because we know that in Africa, women account for about 80 pst. the production of local food but lacks many rights, such as the right to property and inheritance. Gender equality and strengthening of women’s organisations should therefore remain a priority for Norway and gender equality should in general be one of Norway’s main areas of commitment to the Millennium Goals, because we see women’s and girls’ rights under threat. We see it in international forums, where we've recently had some strange alliances between conservative and reactionary regimes, especially with regard to women's sexual and reproductive rights and health. It works actively to prevent girls and women these rights, and here we have to keep the tab high. When we think about equality, we must not forget that girls should also be guaranteed the right to education. Education is a central part of the discussion about the new objectives, and in connection with that debate, I think it is important, in particular, to stress that everyone should have equal access. Marginalised and vulnerable groups, such as people with disabilities – as we discussed before – and children in war and conflict, must be included. Of the thousand-year targets we have today, all three of them are dedicated to health. Mortality among mothers and children is reduced, the share of AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis is the same, but in the case of, for example, Mother and child mortality, we're not on target. It is therefore important to continue the work done towards this group. Norway has been at the forefront internationally here, and there is no reason in the world that we should not continue to do so. The world's poor women and children need a country and leaders who stand up for them. Development is about more than providing assistance. I mean, for example. the importance of the fight against transparency and tax havens. Corruption and tax evasion create poverty and injustice, and it affects the community. When billions of dollars go off illegally, we have a problem. That is why I am pleased that Norway has had this high on the agenda over several years, and we still need it. Finally, the debate on the Millennium Goals is important, but I do not think I can repeat enough that a better distribution and growth in a country is what can bring people out of permanent poverty, and that is why it must be clarified in the discussion we are going to have on the Millennium Goals. I'm excited about the answer from the Council of State and I'm looking forward to the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1061	I thank you for the opportunity to take this debate – I will be so ready to say that I myself invited to this debate in a previous debate we had. I believe that with this debate we get a good recording round early on what should be Norway's position on the discussion of the new development goals. We have the Millennium Goals today, we have the development goals, as the representative Eva Kristin Hansen mentioned – the sustainability goals, Sustainable Development Goals – as it was decided at the Rio+20 meeting last year that we should have. We have every interest in putting in place one set of new targets for the international development agenda in the coming period. What's their name, we get back to, there's a lot of people tearing their heads a little bit and saying that we're there for the most part. Why is this important? Well, because the Millennium Goals have worked, and they give us useful experiences that we're going to build on. The new development goals that will be set will have a major influence on how we work on development and assistance in the coming years. Assistance has been and is important to combat poverty and contribute to development. It was important for Norway after the war, it was important in Eastern Europe, and it has been and is still important as a basis for growth in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Aid can never combat poverty alone. The fact that people organize themselves, that they have the opportunity to fight for their own rights and justice in the development of their own country, is what is central. To top it off, you don't abolish poverty by just helping the poor, you eliminate poverty by abolishing the cause of poverty. National authorities must therefore follow up by prioritising intervention on their own budgets, facilitating business and investment, levying taxes and taxes – it is shocking how low the tax rate is in a number of developing countries in the world today – and must allocate resources to management for operations and control. This is how we achieve a more sustainable development based on national responsibility and ownership. Assistance and international investment open up an international dialogue. This means that we get to talk to each other completely concretely and directly in another way about human rights and governance. In addition, we provide assistance in a way that enables us to contribute to institution building, to improve human rights, to other governance challenges – which Eva Kristin Hansen spoke about, in terms of transparency, lack of control of money flows in and out of the country – and to strengthen forces that can hold the government accountable. There are two principles that I think are important. One thing is that when I come and meet people, they often ask, can you help us? Then I always say that they have to hold the government responsible, that we are working with the government to contribute to development. The second principle is that we have to have the opportunity to take responsibility. Countries themselves have to take responsibility for their own development, but we can be there and ‘back’ them in the transition. We are not going to run schools, education and health in well-functioning countries. This is what the countries themselves are going to do, and then we're going to help them get the income they need to do this job themselves. In this way, assistance builds up institutions that serve citizens and secure their rights, which we discussed in the future, for example, by providing girls with education, education for the disabled, and by accepting women as full-fledged social actors. That way, the aid gets a normative function, which gives the system a push in what I think is a positive direction. There's someone who thinks we're running on aid just to be good. No, we don't. Assistance is policy in line with any other policy we pursue here in Norway. The way we support, and what we support, is actually a question of what kind of values we mean to govern society. The Millennium Goals have been a guide to international development and the use of resources, but more important than that: the Millennium Goals have served to mobilise the world community to achieve some simple, concrete objectives. Since 1990, the world has managed to halve the share of people living in extreme poverty – even though the 1.25 dollar target is terribly low, it is $7-8 a day. The world has managed to increase the share of primary education from 81 p.m. to 90 pst. while reducing the difference between the number of girls and boys receiving education. Equally full, many people still attend school, but they don't get any learning outcomes. We've managed to reduce child mortality in the world from 12.4 million in 1990 to 6.9 million in 2011, which means that there are 14,000 fewer children under the age of five who die today, compared with 1990. One of the reasons why the Millennium Goals have worked is that they're few, they're easy to understand, they're measurable, and they're realistic. That experience must be taken into account in the process of creating new development goals for the world. In the process of creating new development goals, I believe that we in Norway should contribute in particular in those areas where we know that there will be no others who do the job of promoting the goals, and where we have a special commitment – where we believe that something is important. There are a lot of things that are important for development, and that's why I think it's good to have this debate today, so I can also get input from you, and we can have a proper debate. As the representative Eva Kristin Hansen pointed out earlier, this point to the fact that we should use our special commitment to equality, where Norway is considered to be a leader in the world, to raise the voice on behalf of equality. We are a country that has shown, and we show it in politics today, how we are concerned about equality. Women's employment in Norway has steadily increased in the last 30 years, and we see how it contributes to giving women greater power in society, while at the same time helping to increase prosperity in Norway. Both parts are very good, and here we have experiences that we can share with others. And it's strong counterpowers. When it comes to sexual and reproductive health and rights issues, there are a lot of people going against us. The EU does not have a clear voice, because there are different positions. We in Norway can have a clear voice. Furthermore, we give priority to health. There, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg himself has taken a special responsibility, and there we continue to follow up. This is particularly true of molestation and children’s health rights, where we have been a major player for a long time. With regard to the question that the representative Eva Kristin Hansen raised about energy, many people talk about energy being a missing thousand-year target. We had a consultation, as part of the major UN consultations that have been, on what goals we are going to have for the future. There it was clear, when we had consultations in Norway, that people believe that energy is an important goal. Then I'll say one thing about it. Energy, in my opinion, is a key to combining two broad forces and two broad trends that have often opposed each other. Developing countries have said: we want development, give us energy – we give the baffle in what form the energy comes in! It means in many contexts like fossil energy. The environmental movement has said: we must cut CO2 emissions! The UN Secretary-General has put up with a commitment to energy, which says we should have environmentally friendly energy, while at the same time all should have energy access and operate more efficiently than we do today. I think that is one of the things that not everyone says is important enough to get into the new development goals, but where I think Norway has a special role, because we have both shown that we have managed to create development through hydropower and have a unanimous increase that has set ambitious targets for how to manage to reduce our own CO2 emissions, and how to manage to work for a greener world. It's one of the things that I think we can raise especially. In addition, I believe – and here we will see how it goes with the treatment of the paper on fair distribution, Parts to create – that we need to work to ensure that justice goes through all the thousand-year targets, precisely on the basis of the theme we had in the previous interview debate, where we saw, for example, how. disabled persons do not have the necessary means of access to education because not all are addressed. We see that education is first offered to those who are the easiest to reach. We have to turn this around and say that we have to make sure that we provide education, health services and other offers to those who are most difficult to reach, because that is what promotes justice in a society. The second thing we have to do is, in my opinion, to discuss how we can get more income equality within countries. It's a goal that I think is important. We're not just going to have growth. Sometimes I have criticized the right side to say that they are primarily busy with jobs. It's not us. We are primarily concerned with decent jobs. Having decent jobs, having a job and having a good salary to live on, has been very updated in connection with the accidents that have been in Bangladesh lately. These are some of the themes that we're going to be on. At the same time, we will be involved in developing the objectives of education, and the objectives in the areas we believe are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1099	First, I want to thank the Council of State for a very good and thorough answer, and I particularly like what he says about getting people out of permanent poverty is not just about giving assistance. The fact that countries themselves follow up and take great responsibility for facilitating business, jobs, for levying taxes and taxes at the best of the community and, not least, having control procedures in their own administration and combating corruption is absolutely crucial, I believe. The Council of State was also concerned that Norway should contribute to the development of the new Millennium Goals where we can add something special and where no one else can play the same role. I fully agree with that, and perhaps especially with regard to equality. I cannot repeat that enough, because there we have, as I also mentioned in my speech, a rather demanding situation today, where there are several countries that actively oppose women's rights and opportunities. And it's not given in the work on the Millennium Goals that it's easy to get everything in place. That's why we have to keep that tab very high. Then I agree with the Council of State that Norway has to take a leading responsibility internationally in terms of energy. And then we'll see how it's reflected in the new targets. But I think it's important to keep that matter warm, because it's so incredibly important to develop a country. While Norway is playing a leading role in some areas, we must not lose sight of the fact that, for some of the goals we have today, we have not had enough results. Work on several of them must continue beyond 2015. You need, for example: continuing work on child and maternal mortality. The council invited the Storting to make recordings and has actually invited several times to the debate we have today, and I think that is very good. More people at Stortinget have also received very good input from the outside of this house. For example, Redd Barna has given us an idea that we have to look at quality and results in addition to quantity, that it is not enough to go to school, you have to learn too. Then we have also been told that the targets need to have concrete indicators and targets to identify marginalised groups, and that we should have a rights-based approach. Others have also given us insights into the importance of prioritising environmental protection, climate change and greener development and have highlighted it as important in the work on the Millennium Goals. I believe that is a good input that the Council of State can take back into his work. But what I think maybe has been most uplifting with many of the recordings we've got here on the Storting is that people are busy with fair distribution. I think that is a healthy and good development in the discussion we have in Norway. We cannot continue to provide assistance for all eternity — especially to middle-income countries. We don't get rid of poverty if we don't do anything about distribution, but I think that assistance can in some way help send countries in a positive direction. On the road to taking responsibility for themselves, I believe it is important that we continue to provide assistance, but they must take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1114	Thank you very much for those recordings. I fully agree with the representative Hansen that in the areas we can do a special job we have credibility, we should drive hard. Sometimes it's about taking a role that we know is fewer taking. For example, when it comes to fair distribution, there is far too little pressure. There are a lot of people who are concerned just to do something about the concrete results or problems, but who don't see how it relates to fair distribution. I feel that there's a lot of movement there just in the last few years. In the last year, for example, The World Economic Forum in Davos began to lift the problem of greater inequality as a problem for growth. I don't want to say that it's an immoral, but a bit of a funny input to say that if we can't make more money, we have to do something about the inequalities. It's better to have the moral base and say that it's actually that societies with little differences are better societies, more fair societies. But okay – we take the allies we can get, and fight together where it can be done. The Economist has raised this as a problem because in the United States, it is now seen how school money has increased in a good number of educational institutions — among others. a triple in California in the last few years after the financial crisis – has made people who are good at school not able to take higher education, thus missing out on a bunch of talents. In fact, if you don't have equal rights and equal opportunities for education, you lose something democratic in a society – if not everyone has access to education – and you lose something for the nation's ability to move on. But as I mentioned, we are raising the fair distribution perspective, and the United Nations Human Development Report, which came now earlier in ours, said very clearly about it. Many of the objectives we have achieved in the health and education sector have been lost because of an increase in inequalities in a society. Fair distribution is being raised by us, and equality as well. When it comes to energy, I think it's important to do something, because there's a few others doing that job. I'm also terrified that energy will be an environmental issue. It must be a combination, it must be the case where we are able to reconcile developing countries that want development and the right to development, and the environmental issue and the need to ensure that development is as renewable and green as possible. In addition, last year, Stoltenberg presented the report on child- and mustering. In addition, there are several other goals, and it is quite right that Eva Kristin Hansen says: We must continue to fight in order to achieve the thousand-year targets that apply today by the end of the year. Both in the field of food security and in the field of education and training, it is quite correct: the quality and availability of, inter alia, Young girls in high school are crucial if we are to fight for the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1125	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important and necessary theme to discuss. Nothing is better than the fact that long-term goals are in fact common, and that there is as much as possible a unanimous anchoring on them. The current Millennium Goals until 2015 may seem to me to be the most important thing in this debate, and the inter-pellant and to the extent that the Minister of Development too insisted that we have to hold them. Still, there are 6 million children under the age of five who die. There are still 61 million children who don't go to school. As long as we haven't managed to achieve those goals, we don't get to lean back and look at new goals. I therefore think it is important that the Council of State also takes it into account, that we have to stick to what is, until we have achieved the objectives, because only then can we be satisfied. We can be partly satisfied with the achievement of the targets, but we can't be satisfied until we have achieved very good results. I come right now from the Oslo Freedom Forum, where the session that I was going to attend between the debates here, was about women in threatened situations – war and conflict. There we heard about Egypt, where we heard about Congo and Mali, and we saw inside from Syria. I have to say I left there with a bad lump in my stomach. I also think it is particularly important for women and children in war and conflict, and that it becomes one of the goals that may be raised a little higher. I don't think it'll be a more peaceful world, unfortunately, I think the world will continue to be full of conflicts and contradictions. Then it's all the more important that we have the goal of dealing with it. Yesterday I had the pleasure of meeting Raymond Baker from Global Financial Integrity. He told me that between $892 billion and $11 billion go unregistered out of developing countries. That's a terrible amount of money. Developing countries are thus a net contributor of funds to the rest of the world. 60 pst. Of these, tax evasions and tax havens, which the interpellant had in mind, and only 5 pst. corruption beyond national borders. He then proposed various instruments, which I would like to share, but one of those that are actually relevant, and which are not controversial for anyone – I think – must be that the banks know who is behind companies. In too many companies, there is a fund, a foundation – there is no physically identifiable person who accounts for the banks. If you put it in place, someone is responsible. It also means that to a much greater extent than today you can actually catch up with this. Baker also said there was a complete lack of political will to do something about this. The United States, from which he himself comes, was probably not exactly a country where you were supposed to start playing with this, because in the United States, corruption is legal if it happens abroad, but it's not legal in the country – even the United States has a little to learn. We know it's about huge sums – $1.1 billion. If this money could have been managed and used in the countries in which they were actually meant to be spent, we can imagine that well-being would have improved — perhaps child mortality had fallen, perhaps more children had gone to school. The consequences are many with small instruments, and I hope the Council of State will take them with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1145	The Millennium Goals are a success. The objectives are concrete, and they have contributed and contributed to development. 90 pst. by the children of the world now go to school. It's reduced from 108 million children who didn't go to school in 1999, to 61 million now. Both Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and I ourselves have put this on the agenda on several occasions in Stortinget, and we want a stronger focus on education in Norwegian development policy, but we get to enjoy the trends. Child mortality has been greatly reduced, and the thousand-year targets that now lie must not be overlooked in the development of new ones. The process is now significantly different from the development of the Millennium Goals. It has been said, without me being able to verify it, that the Millennium Goals came about on a napkin written by Kofi Annan. It's not the most inclusive process I know, but it says a little bit different about today's process, which is now a long and inclusive process. The UN High Panel on Post 2015 has worked for a year and in these days is presenting its report. Rio+20 is an open working group and the UN General Assembly receives a document from it in September 2014. The main problem with today's Millennium Goal is that they're exclusive, or they're percentages. It often leaves out people affected by war and conflict, minorities and disabled people. It's those that are easiest to reach, that are reached first. This means that the poorest and marginalized are too much forgotten. I am pleased with what the Council of State says about being a listener and looking for Norway's position. I think that's a good approach. It's an approximation that also has the Right. Among other things, we had: seminar together with the Red Children in Stortinget, where we were also looking for what should be the guiding principles for the development of new development goals. However, there are some principles that I want to highlight in the debate, which characterise the Right positions. The first is equal rights and non-discrimination. Disabled persons must no longer be excluded, marginalised must be excluded, and targets must be inclusive and not exclusive. We need concrete targets – and we can learn that from today’s Millennium Goals too – concrete targets and indicators with good monitoring mechanisms. Extreme poverty must be eradicated. The possibilities are there, it's a low-hanging fruit – it has to be picked, and it has to go. It's also about something more – it's about fairer distribution. It is a clear goal, from the left to the right of Norwegian policy, to contribute to a fairer distribution. Education and health services for all are clear objectives – no longer for two thirds, a percentage, but for all. There are targets that must combine quantity and quality. That's 20 pst. differences in learning outcomes between the richest and the poorest countries. There are 130 million children who go to school without learning to write properly. Education is a human right. One of the best investments we make is in education. Sustainable management of the environment and the climate is an absolute must in a poverty-reduction perspective, and not least in the most important of all – a social perspective and a sustainability perspective. If we take the future into account, and combine it with poverty eradication, the ones that are now hardest hit by climate change are the ones that have the least. The targets must apply to all countries. It has to be logically linked. Let me also say that all countries are responsible for the well-being of their own people, but of course the international community can help. Personally, I have a slogan: «All equal, all different». I think that is a good slogan, which must also include Norwegian policy. Equality is a prerequisite for development and poverty reduction. Let me also mention energy, which is the combination of work, health and economic education on poverty reduction. Thanks to the interpellant for the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1171	I would also like to thank the interpellant for keeping this very important matter warm. We live in incredibly important times. Those who sit up there in the gallery now are going to be old in a world that will look completely, completely different than it does today. The experience of the last decades shows us that economic growth alone is not enough to combat poverty. The interpellant is quite right when she points this out. On the contrary, there are glaring examples in many countries of the fact that freeing of market mechanisms, privatisation, structural adjustment programmes and invitations to large international companies to extract natural resources have led to greater differences, if not entirely other mechanisms such as employee rights, distribution mechanisms in the form of good pay formation and good, reliable tax systems are in place. In short, the social contract must be in place, and there must be justice in the country. There has to be an experience of justice, and there has to be a sense of harmony, which can only come from feeling that you live with equals and peers. We're spoiled with that in Norway, we've had that for so long, but also in Norway, it's a result of a long political struggle with sometimes strong contradictions. We now see it in Europe as well. When the social perspective is weakened, when workers’ rights are weakened, when structural reforms that weaken the role of trade unions are implemented, even the economic challenges of the rich country can lead to great, great differences and deep social distress. The disaster we see in Spain and Greece now is political. It's not a natural disaster. Many of the perspectives we are going to discuss in development policy in the future show the common features between rich and poor countries in a way that we have been far too poor to promise in the past. When e.g. rich companies invoicing large values out of Sweden, which has had a big debate on this, are many of the same mechanisms that when rich, large companies invoicing and stealing values out of poor countries. That is why I fully agree with the premise of the Council of State: we must tackle the structural causes of poverty. Economic growth must be inclusive. Then we must also take global action. We need to promote fair extraction agreements for natural resources, we need to promote equal and fair distribution as value and as objectives in themselves, and then we need to go ahead to fight corruption, capital evasion and tax havens. There was a lot of talk about consensus. There's a lot of it in the hall, and you'd think there was a broad consensus about that among all the political parties in Norway. But I actually have to challenge the Progress Party a little, for the representative Gjermund Hageseter stated in the Evening Post on March 3, 2008 – not many years ago – the following: ‘They give healthy tax competition If we had not had tax havens, we would have had a much higher tax level today.’ [[...]] [[...]] This said Hagesetter under the heading ‘Hyller tax havens’ in the Evening Post. But the point here is not the 'race to the bottom' logic of tax competition, which is bad enough in itself, and which I strongly politically disagree with, but the fact that tax havens create secrecy. They keep alive corruption, they keep alive illegal arms trafficking and thus have co-responsibility for death and destruction, and they represent the bottom line the theft of the world's people. I am very proud that the red-green government has such a clear line towards tax havens and illegal capital flight, which we will follow up now as we continue to work on the message Share to create. It's a perspective until I'm going to promise as central to the work on new development goals: equality, women's reproductive and sexual rights. The world's reactionary and anti-female regimes and countries have more than ever come together, threatening not only the fundamental rights of women living in these countries, but women in all countries, through their attacks on women's rights in UN bodies and other international forums. The freedoms women have fought for are not always won — not in Norway, and not in any other country. Norway is in a special position and has a special responsibility to be a progressive force in gender equality issues, also because we are not a member of the EU. This does not mean that we compromise with countries like Malta and Poland before we express our views on, for example. the sexual rights of women and the right to abortion. A more equal world is the easiest way to a more justly distributed world – it has to be expressed in everything we do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1200	Thousands of years have been important. They have made development work more focused, concentrated efforts on key tasks, and made it easier to assess results. Much has been achieved. The number of people living in extreme poverty is halved. Nine out of ten children are now receiving primary education. But even more remains. So these problems can't be added when we're going to set new targets. But at the same time, we need to take on board the changes that have taken place internationally in the last ten to fifteen years. We see strong economic development in many developing countries. In Africa, a number of countries now have economic growth among the highest in the world. The so-called BRICS countries have strong economic growth and are becoming increasingly applicable internationally. Climate threats are increasing, the pressure on both renewable and non-renewable natural resources is growing, and the need for energy is growing. Rapid population growth in many countries increases the need for jobs to be created so that young people are given work and the opportunity to use their education. The Arab Spring is just an example of social unrest, created by the lack of democracy and the absence of social and economic progress. We'll see more of this if we don't succeed in creating an economic development in poor countries and middle-income countries that produce jobs and economic and social prosperity for most people. All of this creates a new framework for development policy. Therefore, development policy needs to focus more strongly on key inputs that form the basis for economic growth. Education and health will continue to be important factors, but they are not sufficient. Energy is needed, and a better distribution policy is needed. It is therefore gratifying to see that the Government's big message Share to create such clear support in the development policy environment. Focusing on a fair distribution is also one of the objectives that several of the aid organisations have sent us as an input to this inter-pelling debate. Growth and distribution must go hand in hand if economic and social development in the country is to be sustainable. But if it is also to support democratic development, economic progress must be shared by all citizens. That's just how you can develop a society that builds bridges over ancient contradictions, whether of a tribal, cultural or religious nature. Fair distribution must be one of the objectives of development beyond 2015. The same must be true of energy, as it was also concluded at the high-level meeting here in Oslo in April. We can only draw lessons from our own history: what has not the hydropower meant for our development from a poor society until we now throne at the top of the tapcakes? There are more lessons to learn from our development history than from the importance of energy — the importance of fair distribution and small differences and the last decades: the role of equality, women's inclusion in working life. This is much more important than the oil and the gas. When I mentioned this to a visitor from South Sudan, the answer was that there were women who did the job, at least in rural areas. So in some countries, maybe the men need to get into work. I agree with Eva Kristin Hansen that equality, the position of women, must remain among the priority tasks even after 2015. Management of natural resources, both renewables and non-renewables, as we do through the Oil for Development and Fish Development programmes, are important contributions to a development strategy in other countries, but it also has importance in financing welfare. Taxes on development can become a very important development programme in countries that are starting economic growth. It will help to ensure fair distribution, and it will help to ensure that important services, such as education and health, are financed. It's about institution building and community construction. As far as development work is concerned, it is said that there is a need for everyone. There are at least many tasks to choose from when to pick out the targets further. I think it is important to choose the objectives that are key elements of a strategy for economic growth and fair distribution, because that is just what can provide economic, social, democratic and climate sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1228	Let me first be allowed to thank the representative Eva Kristin Hansen for travelling this interpellation, and the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås for a good and satisfying response, which raises many points on which there is broad agreement in this room. Interpellence raises questions that are central to the international development debate. What role will assistance play in the future? And what should be the main difference between the UN's Millennium Goals for 2015 and the new set of global development targets that will apply after 2015? The UN’s Millennium Goals are a relatively successful chapter in mobilising the world society to fight poverty together and for social and economic development. There's a reason for that. The objectives have been few, clear, concrete and simple to communicate. Most targets have also been measurable in available statistics, although the figures from the poorest countries are probably uncertain or missing. The key objectives are so clear that schoolchildren in poor and rich countries have also been able to understand and know them. They give hope for a better life. This has enabled a number of actors to work together to achieve the objectives. Large resources have been mobilised. The efforts of the States have received increased support from non-public actors. Both non-governmental organisations, enterprises, private foundations and individuals have contributed to reforms and funding. At the same time, it is clear that a few clear and measurable thousand-year targets cannot cover all aspects of development. Development policy must also have a broader agenda. The challenge is to be able to combine this. There is a significant danger that when different actors are fighting to bring their different issues and interests into the new global agenda, it will become more influential and diffuse. It can thus lose power as a clear basis for mobilization and as a simple and comprehensible source of motivation. From the Christian People's Party, we will therefore stress the need for Norway to work for clear, concrete and to achieve a thousand-year target even after 2015. Much of the broad political reform work needs to be followed up in another way in the international network of development institutions. The other risk is that we experience the same pattern as in the follow-up to a film success. There it is that the ender often gets a good connection and turns up the expectations, while the second is not as hand-held and successful. From the Christian People's Party we have noticed what Report. St. 25 for 2012–2013 says about the government's specific goals to fight to get into the new UN development goals. These are important issues — not least the distribution perspective, which the representative Hansen was also involved in his intervention, but also the fact that national economic growth is accompanied by increased inequality, so that many of the poor remain poor. This has been a red thread in Christian People's Party's development policy for decades. Policies must help the disadvantaged to come out of their distress, out of poverty and out of their abjectness, and achieve their fundamental human rights and a worthy life. We are pleased that the new Minister of Development, such as the Christian People's Party, has a healthy scepticism for the trickle down theory. So we're more in line. But as we know, we are more disappointed by the government's lack of willingness to use the oil fund to invest and to generate growth in the poorest countries. The Christian People's Party sees it for the same reason as very important to keep a focus on the objectives of education for all and healthcare for all — including the poorest. To date, we have missed a confirmation from the government that they have this as a priority in their impact strategy for the new Millennium Goals. That is why we have included this as one of the points contained in the Document 8 proposal that we from the Christian People's Party have submitted to the Stortinget, which will be discussed later in the spring. But I hope that this debate too can help clarify this point. We mean, among other things: the fight for education for all must be combined with demands on the quality of school education. It is not enough to accommodate more children into classrooms; they also have to get qualified teachers and educational materials, which ensure that they actually get good benefits from school time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1252	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. This was also the theme of a seminar Right organised in March – how to set a new agenda after 2015, and what goals we should have for us. There are several people who have made an important and significant point during the debate, namely that the new Millennium Goals cannot only be about quantity; they must also be about quality – or in another way: how do we reach those that are most difficult to achieve? The question that many people are asking is whether it is possible to eradicate, for example: poverty by 2030; There's a lot of trends going in the right direction. The number of children who die every year is reduced from 12 million to about 12 million. Seven million. We have halved the proportion of children who are out of school, and not least have more and more people, approx. 600 million people, in recent years, have been permanently lifted out of poverty. In other words, if we keep going at the same rate, only 4 pst will. by 2030, the world's population is poor. But – and it’s a big but – the ones that are now left are the ones that are most difficult to reach. As many have mentioned earlier in the discussion: people with disabilities, people else — and especially children — who live in rural areas, who are difficult to reach with many offers. This means that the job to reach the most marginalized is going to be more difficult than the job you've had up until now. It also illustrates in many ways some of the challenges of the Millennium Goals, namely that you see great progress where it is easy to cross in the box, where it is easy to count. But you must never forget the long-term development effects, which are as important as what you can measure from one year to the next. We also have some challenges in achieving the next thousand-year targets in finding criteria that are both measurable and simple to understand, and that also provide good measurement systems for how we can see and measure development over time. The results of these thousand-year targets do not appear until a few years – at least a few years after 2015 when they officially expire – but there is still a need to find new criteria, new targets, and also to find a way to measure them. There is no doubt that the Millennium Goals we have today have had a mobilising effect, and they have helped to move the development in the right direction, even if you don't achieve all the goals. But at least they have had a mobilizing and important effect. At the same time, some remaining challenges remain, and one of the challenges is something that can be solved relatively easily. UNICEF Director General Anthony Lake was in Oslo last week. He had meetings with both the Minister of Development and with the Committee. One of the themes that he points to, and that UNICEF has pointed out a lot lately, has been the problem of children and nutrition. Firstly, more and more children — and that development will only continue — live in urban areas. This means that there are challenges with not least water and sanitation conditions and nutrition. Many children today are fed, but they are not fed. They lack basic vitamins, which means they stop growing and the brain stops developing. Today, 160 million children are hit by so-called "stunting", i.e. that, in most cases, if one cannot handle this before two years of age, development will be irreversible. No matter how well you learn during your entire life, a tape will be about. two years of schooling because the brain also stops developing. In Yemen is 60 pst. by all children exposed to this, and in India is 48 pst. by all children exposed to this. There are 160 million children worldwide, and it's easy to solve. This is why UNICEF and others have now launched a major project called ‘Step-Up Nutrition’, which is a very good way to help not only feed children but provide nutritional food to children. It's absolutely crucial. So finally, a few words about education. Education is extremely important – it's a matter we've discussed in this room many times – but you also have to remember that it's important for reasons other than education, and I'm going to give an example of it. On average, when girls receive education, the marriage age of girls is postponed from about one year to another. 14 to approx. 17 years. They also have fewer children, and having children later and having fewer children reduces both infant and maternal mortality – that is, investing in education is a good circle that is important for much more than education itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1271	First I have to say that this has been a very good debate. I always expect good debates, especially from the members of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, but it has been very interesting today. First, I would like to say a little about the discussion that goes around the goals we have up to 2015, which both the representative Woldseth and the representative Skovholt Gitmark were involved. There I fully agree that we must stick to those objectives and follow them further, because the objectives have not been achieved. I fully agree with the representative Woldseth that we cannot borrow back – that is not the case. Mothers still die in childbirth, many babies never go to school and people die of tuberculosis and malaria. We have so great challenges that those objectives must be closely followed in the future too – I fully agree with that. I also fully agree with the representative of Skovholt Gitmark, who mentions that the Millennium Goals work. Yes, they do. They're easy to measure, they're concrete, they work and we see results. But at the same time, I agree with Eriksen Soreide, who said instead, that even if the goals work in a way, when you don't necessarily reach those that are most difficult, i.e. the marginalized groups like disabled people and children in war and conflict. I believe that this is an important part of the debate that we are going to take with us. These are incredibly good points, for these are people who have never been reached. The discussion we had earlier today about people with disabilities is an example that perhaps especially that group also needs to be lifted. Then I think it was good that the representative Woldseth brought up on capital exchange and tax havens. I mean, when money runs out of land, as it does, it's about a turn, and there's somebody who makes it. There we must intensify our efforts. I also thought it was interesting to hear if the meeting of the representative Woldseth had been at when it was about how the United States is dealing with this kind of discussion. It is a bit demanding because it is a relatively large country and is a very important player internationally. I thought that was very interesting. Then I registered the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen about a previous look-up in the evening post. But I didn't see the representative Woldseth as being on that line at all – just so they said. I think, on the contrary, she had many good recordings, including the recording she made of the fact that the banks have to know who is behind the companies in connection with this whole tax discussion, is very important. Then the representative of Skovholt Gitmark launched the right positions in this discussion. I can't see that there was anything groundbreaking. I feel in a way that we are quite united in this hall in many important things relating to the Millennium Goals. So at the end of the article, the representative called Rupstad on education and health. I think it is quite obvious that we should continue to work both with the goals we have today and with the objectives that we will have after 2015 with education and health, but I believe that Norway is not in conflict with taking a specific leadership role in some areas, such as: equality or energy. I think it's not in conflict with each other, and I'm very excited about how these goals finally look. Again: Thank you for a very nice debate here today!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1290	Thank you very much for a good debate. I just have to start by saying that I end up with 100 pst. to the post that Karin S. Woldseth had. Therefore, I have to admit that it is completely incomprehensible to me, when she says that there is a need for a stronger effort in all the areas she mentions, that the Progress Party is cutting so dramatically in the aid budget as they do. It is also completely incomprehensible to me that the gap in the Progress Party may be as large as it is between Gjermund Hagesetter and Karin S. Woldseth. But I hope that it will be Karin S. Woldseth who wins the fight over the spirit of the Advancement Party on this issue, for the machinations of the defamation of the disadvantages and the terrible with tax havens that Gjermund Hagesetter described at that time, it is not possible for me to say anything about it. Let me just take one example when it comes to this particular question. We have said every year that there is a run of the poorest countries, and it was also described to the representative Woldseth in the meeting that she had – otherwise with a foundation that Norway is supporting and that I have also met regularly. It's a run that's going on in the poorest countries, but what's happening in the world is that you get a momentum because you've got a different situation. Just as Snorre Serigstad Valen says, one now sees that the rich countries also discover that they are being ransacked through the same tax havens. Just briefly: in the United Kingdom there was a debate on this in Parliament. They pointed out that Starbucks, a major American coffee chain, almost paid taxes at all to the United Kingdom — less than a regular coffee bar on the corner — because they moved all the money out through tax havens to other countries like royalty for it to run. Then one sees that developing countries, like us, are having problems financing. There is a huge effort on education and health, and there is a problem that tax revenue is too low. But the tax debate is fresh in Norway, and it is going to be fresh in many other countries as well. But let me get to one of the things that Ine M. Eriksen Soreide pulled up, and that was the question of quality in school. That's exactly where we agree. I would also say that just there we have started a work. We're supporting a pilot in UNESCO called PISA for Development, who is looking at how we can improve the quality of educational institutions through measuring tools. It's really not the number 61 million who don't have education that's central, it's the 250 million who can't read and write properly even if they've gone to school. To Kjell Ingolf Ropstad I just want to say that fortunately it is that the followers are sometimes very good. We had Iron Man 3, which is the last example of a good follow-up of a series, and I hope that the same could happen for the development goals. The High Level Panel will now be presented during this month or the beginning of the next month. Then the government takes a position and a debate on this, we get it presented, and we get an open debate in society in Norway. Thank you very much for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1307	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1321	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1330	The majority will now consider a proposal from the two representatives of the Left Party of Oslo and Akershus on the permanent protection of Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II. Personally, I didn't think such a proposal would come, but now it's here. I think it is gratifying that an overall committee is going against the proposal, because it has so many negative consequences. There are a number of different comments and suggestions in the vote that I believe each party's representatives will explain themselves. When I start this post as I do, it's because I haven't heard any loud calls from the north about more protection, and because I have great ambitions on behalf of the northern part of the country. I have this because we in the north are so rich in natural resources. We are talking here about important resources that the whole world needs. I am thinking in particular of the rich fisheries resources, the good conditions for the production of clean and safe agricultural products, the mineral deposits in our mountains and many types of energy including oil and gas. In addition, the northern part of the country is a more and more popular destination for tourists from abroad, and this is an ongoing development. As a resident in the northern part of the country, I am proud of the district and everything it has to live on. If this is to give us business and safe housing, we need to look at how these resources can be exploited in a way that is best served by everyone. I am therefore pleased that the Labour Party in its national meeting recently decided to take stock of the areas of Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II to look at what opportunities lie here. Of course, I'm also glad that the LO Congress said the same thing. In my opinion, the claims that an impact assessment automatically means extraction are only a derailment. I'm not hiding that I want increased activity in the north, but of course not at any cost. I've lived my entire life exactly in the geographical area we're talking about here, and I'm going to keep going. I must therefore say that I am very provoked when people without modesty accuse me of wanting to destroy my own home because I want to have increased activity and hence a growing and secure settlement. The biggest fear I have in this area is that we should be destroyed by our young people leaving because there are no attractive and forward-looking jobs for all kinds of professions. Here, as elsewhere, we need fishermen, farmers, industrial workers and academics, etc. to have a complete society of education, work, housing and well-being. If we're going to get this done, we have to look at all the possibilities, and we have to be able to let industries live side by side, as they do in other parts of the country. I do not expect the plant sheds and the jobs in the north to be as close as here at the proposers in Oslo and Akershus, but I had really hoped and believed that everyone could spare us the opportunity to exploit the resources we have right outside our living room door. This would put an effective stop to the present proposal if it had been adopted. I look forward to this important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1349	The party of progress is and has been clear on this matter for a long time. The Party of Progress will open up to petroleum activities in all promising areas outside of North Norway, including North Norway VI, Northland VII and Troms II, but with the strictest environmental, security and preparedness requirements and for co-existence with other industries, in particular fisheries and aquaculture. The impact of oil and gas activity in Northern Ireland VI, Northern Ireland VII and Troms II should have been taken too long, and this distribution would ensure that under what conditions these areas could be opened. Also, the county asks for this activity, and it was very good to right the post of Bendiks H. Arnesen in that context. We understand that the continent will be part of the activity represented by the petroleum sector. It therefore seems strange to many that, rather than assessing the requirements for opening, there is a more busy making symbolism policy by the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, despite the fact that there is a large number of political pluralities that want to open, but then under the strictest environmental requirements. And yes, we are familiar with the many natural relationships that need to be considered. It'll be done. Also for the future development of infrastructure, this part of the coast is very important, so that a cost-effective and socio-economic solution can be achieved by continuing the pipeline development towards the Barents Sea. For the part of the country, Northern/Troms-Senja, which wants petroleum activity and jobs, it is very negative that this does not come into place, as one actually risks passing by because the establishments that would otherwise come to just this part of the country are coming further north. We in the Progress Party are, as I said, clear that we support the opening and the subsequent establishment of service industries for the petroleum sector for the benefit and pleasure of people. Now it's the northern part of the country's turn. It is therefore entirely inappropriate for the Progress Party to support a lasting peace in the form of a petroleum-free zone in this sea area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1364	Petroleum industry is our main industry and contributes great values to society both financially, industrially and in building competences. More than 250,000 people in this country work directly or indirectly in this industry, and these 250,000 people come from, to put it another way, all the municipalities of the country. Just to illustrate how much the petroleum industry means to us financially, the proportion that came from this industry of Norway's GDP in 2011, was 26 pst. It was 32 pst. of the income of the country, 26 p.m. of the total investments in Norway and 51 pst. of the total exports of Norway. It says a little about the significance of this industry for Norway. We have a 40-year history as an oil nation, and several of our fields have gradually come into a more mature phase. Norway had its highest oil production in 2001, and since then the production of oil from Norway's cap is almost halved. Part of this decline is compensated for by the extraction of more gas, so that we keep total production on level at least towards 2020. Fortunately, we have now made some promising findings both in mature areas in the North Sea and north of the Barents Sea, but in addition to this, we need to do a lot of new findings in the future to replace the production that has fallen due to the fact that fields have become more mature. It is important for the Right to maintain a predictable and high rate of opening new areas of petroleum activity. It is important to maintain production volume beyond 2020. This is not an ambition only the Right has, this ambition has a cross-political magnification through the treatment of the last petroleum message said it makes sense. This ambition also means that we need to open promising areas of petroleum activity, such as these areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. The right is clear that we want an impact assessment for Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II. An impact assessment for us is not a question of opening up, but a question of what conditions we are going to open up to petroleum activity in these areas. It's about stimulating industrial development in our northern part of the country. On the right, the region around Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja wants to be able to participate in the oil adventure for which the resources in their marine areas are based. We want those who are currently going to the kindergarten in Lofoten and the Westphalia to have the opportunity to find interesting jobs and settle in this part of the country and have a future there. If we are to achieve real industrial development, we need to have long-term, predictable horizons, and from the Right we want the continent to also be able to exploit the oil and gas resources that are most likely to be located right outside the living room door. A clear prerequisite for this is that we set high standards for health, environment and safety and for good co-existence with other industries, not least the fishing industry. It's about making demands, and it's about making knowledge-based demands, and it's something that we've gradually gotten a lot of related to these areas, it's not least knowledge. That means that we have the opportunity to set sensible, knowledge-based requirements for the framework of this type of activity. The right does not agree with the proposal from the Left – on the contrary, we want to set up an impact assessment as soon as possible, and we want to open up these areas of oil and gas activity. We want to give this opportunity to a whole part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1383	The IEA has established that if the world is to have any chance of achieving the UN target of a maximum temperature increase of two degrees, two thirds of the fossil resources that we know today must remain in the ground or below the seabed. So the big task both internationally and nationally is to get away from the dependence on fossil energy and on renewable energies. Of course, this also applies to Norway. But the good news for us is that we are better able than any other country to do that job, because the oil has given us economic muscles. At the same time, it has led to a two-part economy, with a mainland industry that cannot afford to pay oil wages, and a pressure on public service costs – a pressure that leads not least to a reduction in population in many municipalities in our country. That means that we have to choose which areas remain petroleum-free. Outside the Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja are probably about 1 pst. of our well-known fossil resources. At the same time, 70 pst. of cod, sehen, herring, hyssa in the sea area bounded by Norway, Denmark, British Islands, Iceland and the Arctic – 70 pst. of these fishing resources – a part of the narrow continental shelf outside the Lofoten, the Western Seabed and Senja. This is our rain forest. This is not symbolism policy. Here there are more than 6000 jobs related to fishing and tourism, while the petroleum industry will provide 400-1100 jobs for some years. The value of the fish resources exceeds many, many, many times the values of the oil and the gas present in this area. I mention this as a background for SV to believe that it is important to ensure the sustainable use of these marine areas and not to open up oil or gas activities that endanger fish resources and nature. This is also the government's policy during this majority period. So there's no secret that there are different opinions about this both in the position and in the opposition. For SV, this has been so important that in two management plans we have had the advantage of stopping petroleum activities in these coastal seas. We'll also win the next round, in line with what studies show that the population figure thinks, sail if there's reason to believe that the majority of the population thinks the opposite. This means that today’s treatment is most suitable to show that in the Storting there is a large majority of impact assessment – and probably opening – in Lofoten, as the Left’s partners Right and Advance Party write in their comments: ‘We must keep a predictable and high pace in opening new areas’. Should SV have voted in favour of the Left's proposal, we would have opened up a freeing of parties that would lead to a decision on the impact assessment and opening of the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja during this collapse period. This is the background to the fact that the government parties are united on the note not to open up petroleum activities during this bulking period and point to the importance of the comprehensive knowledge acquisition, which will otherwise be carried out during the next majorisation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1398	The administrator's idea is strong in the Center Party – the resources on the Earth are not something we've been given to own for our generation, but it's something we manage on behalf of those who come after us. For this reason, the Centre Party has been concerned to proceed cautiously in the field of petroleum policy, both in view of the fact that petroleum resources are not renewable, and that it is therefore right that they should be managed in a long-term perspective, and because maturing provides knowledge of nature’s vulnerability and also provides new and safer technologies. It has never been good Norwegian petroleum policy to open everything at once – we can afford to leave some areas lying. The idea of not opening up to petroleum activities outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja has resonated not only in Oslo and Akershus, but also in other parts of the country – not least in the northern part of the country. Sea areas outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja constitute valuable and vulnerable areas. It's an important spawning and breeding area for our most important fish strains, it's a nesting and wintering area for endangered seabird populations, and they have large populations of bottom vegetation and corals. New knowledge has further confirmed these values. The survey of the major marine areas in the north shows that our seas are clean and rich, the degree of impurity is basically low, and the large fish stocks are in good condition. On the other hand, monitoring shows that the marine climate is changing, and that the situation can change independently, but also depending on the activity we have in the specific areas. We'll still need more knowledge about these developments and what's behind them. But we have to manage at the same time based on the knowledge we have today, combined with the principle of being leading was. The large northern sea areas are not only valuable from a natural disaster perspective. We're taking huge resources out of this marine area in the form of fish and marine animals. There is also increasing aquaculture activity along our coast. For the Center Party, the permanent-protection operation has not been the norm. We believe that good governance is the best protection. That is why we will not vote in favour of permanent protection in Stortinget today. However, we have been very clear that we do not want to open these areas to petroleum industry, precisely with a background in natural values and nutritional values that are there today, and from a pre-war perspective. In these areas, the fish and nature shall have the right to drive. Thus, investing in the renewable industries in these areas is not a reflection of a desire for lasting protection, but it is a desire to manage the rich natural resources that are in this area, in a resilient way, with the aim of creating activity and also ringing locally. I mean, we're in a more nuanced debate than the individual attempts to hold when it comes to the Lofoten and the Vestral. It must be possible to be proud of Norwegian petroleum industry's results for value creation, security and technology, but still have a position that not all Norwegian sea areas should be opened up for petroleum industry. I also disagree with the tendency of the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party to make the question of petroleum extraction in these areas a substance or not for Norwegian petroleum industry. It's not right, nor does it feel like this big and important industry for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1419	The oil industry has contributed enormous competence, with value creation and technology for our country. It's an important industry that we're all going to be happy that we've been allowed to have, and that we're going to have for a long time in the future. In the Christian People's Party we are concerned with predictability of the industry, and therefore we have chosen to grant new permits all the time to new areas, but with a very clear precautionary attitude and a very clear attitude to which areas should be opened. That's why we're going to support, among other things. opening of the South Barents Sea. But we've also been clear that there are some areas that are so vulnerable that we don't want to open them. That's why we've clearly signaled in all the decisions in Stortinget during this period that we don't want to open up in Jan Mayen. Similarly, we believe that the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja are areas that should not be opened either. Some areas are just too vulnerable. Several have used their speeches to say why the Lofoten–Westålen–Senja is one of the areas of all the peculiarities we find in this area: the world-renowned landscape that is there, the huge, rich natural resources and the living history. That's why I'm not going to go into it any more, but I'm going to mention another point that I think is important. It is, as the representative Sande mentioned, that someone is making this as a be or not for the oil industry. The resource estimates for Nordland VI and VII and Troms II are approx. The size of Johan Sverdrup alone, but Johan Sverdrup is one find, while this is about many small findings. I believe this in itself shows that Johan Sverdrup – with all the curves many of us have seen, where the extraction rate drops – has already filled the need for the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja. That's why one should say clearly no, that there's no sense in that. So it's also that the activity level is now incredibly high. We see that on Johan Sverdrup, as on other findings in the North Sea, there are new findings in mature fields and areas. The fact that the Storting has said no to the Lofoten and the Vestreålen extraction has made it possible for you to find these areas. I think that'll be the fasit that's going to happen. I have noticed that there are many people in the business community, and so far in the oil industry as well, who have been very clear that this is not an area like it is a must to open now. I would like to mention Eivind Reiten, who is clear on this – interesting. We're going to deal with a lot of petroleum deposits at Stortinget in the next few weeks, and the contracts that go abroad. It is not necessarily in Norway that the value creation takes place in these areas. I think it's also interesting to draw parallels to the Yme scandal, where one sees what happens when many of the complicated expansions go abroad. There is not the same control over the projects – without necessarily pulling the parallel completely out. Unfortunately, for me, such issues often concern local conditions and local desire to create more growth. I even come from a district that is constantly busy getting the youth back. I think that is an attitude that characterizes all districts. Once I myself have been allowed to visit the Lofoten several times, there is some of the underlying issues: Yes, but give me an alternative. I'm dedicated to creating alternatives in all districts. The interesting thing when I was in Lofoten last, was to see the huge growth that's there. It's not as remote as anyone wants it to. So it's not a beard or not for the area either. As we write in our notes, it is only to look at the workplaces related to fisheries and tourism — there are about 6,000 — while the job estimate for an opening is modest. That's 5 pst. probability of 1 100 jobs, and 95 pst. the probability of 400 jobs in a long and large region. It's easy to throw yourself at this piece because a wants a development. There are large amounts of money in circulation when the oil industry comes. But it really is in a value choice for the future, about which areas are too vulnerable to open. The Christian People's Party believes that we can afford to wait with the most vulnerable areas, such as the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. Therefore, we will invest in renewable resources, we will continue to invest in industrial development that can generate growth in the regions. Finally, I would like to address the Christian People's Party's proposal that we want petroleum-free zones.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1441	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1444	I want to ask one question: If not here – where then? If not Lofoten and Vesterålen are a natural area that is unique and special, what area should we take care of? If there is one area along the entire Norwegian coast that we say is so important to take care not to look for oil – and it is not here – then I wonder: Where then? Is it true that we're going to drill anywhere? That must be the answer. If this isn't worth taking care of, there's nothing worth taking care of. This is the natural area that is Norway's response to Great Barrier Reef, which is Norway's response to the Grand Canyon. Australia is doing it, the United States is doing it – they are able to show these areas and make them huge benefits to their countries, including advertising, tourist destinations and industrial development areas – these countries have made it clear. What is Bendiks Harald Arnesen's dream of seeing? He dreams of seeing civil engineering traffic and helicopters. Construction traffic and helicopters – that's what he's dreaming about! Do you see Australian politicians dream of seeing civil engineering traffic and helicopters in Great Barrier Reef? Do you see American politicians dream of seeing civil engineering traffic and helicopters in the Grand Canyon? It says something about what dreams we have, and what opportunities we have in these areas to develop these areas, and the resources we're sitting on. It is, in fact, the case of our Lord's side that the continental shelf past the Lofoten is so narrow and small that we will actually see the platforms from land, and we will experience that a small accident will have disastrous consequences. In fact, when accidents happen on Statfjord or at sea today, it takes quite a lot of time for it to reach the Norwegian coast. In this area, it will have disastrous consequences right away. Then we're so lucky that all the protein sources that are in the fish resources have figured out that they're going to breed in one place, so we can operate with oil production in the other places. They've gathered all the young people in one place, so we can take care of one place in protein production, and then we can make oil in the other places. So lucky we've been from the nature's side that we've got all of this collected in one place. Then I ask again, if we're not going to keep this, what are we going to keep? What is it worth taking care of, if this isn't worth taking care of? I don't think I get any good answers to that. Building a lookout well – which you in turn get sponsored by Norwegian tax authorities – costs almost 1 billion. kr. Think about this big thing that had decided to use 1mrd. to develop business, travel, fishing and further processing of fish in this area. One needs only one well, and we should have managed to do wonders for the area – which is not as downward as Bendiks Harald Arnesen is trying to make it like that. It's quite right, as the Christian People's Party's representative says, that this is an area of plenty of possibilities. It's the way the people don't want oil activity. There may be some of the big parties in this hall terribly wanting, but the people don't want it. It's possible Bendiks Harald Arnesen is talking to someone in the evening who wants oil platforms, but the people of Lofoten don't want it. The people in the Westphalia don't want it. The people of the whole Nordic region actually don't want this. This is one of the areas that we can develop to be one of the places we can really show Norway at best. Or we could develop it into an area where you can see cranes and construction traffic. Bendiks Harald Arnesen is right in one thing he said. He said that the proposal from the Left would put an effective stop to his vision for the Lofoten. That's absolutely right – that was also the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1462	The government wants to facilitate the creation of value through the efficient use of marine resources and ecosystem services while sustaining the structure, mode, productivity and natural handicaps of ecosystems. To this end, the government has established marine management plans as a tool for a holistic ecosystem-based management, balancing the importance of value creation and the need to take care of ecosystems. With the management plan for the North Sea and Skagerrak, which was recently presented, the government has covered all Norwegian sea areas with management plans. They have emphasized international attention and contributed to Norway's progress towards a holistic and ecosystem-based management of marine areas. Many countries follow the work with considerable interest, and their state councils take it up with me, show interest and will cooperate with us on it. The Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten have unique nature values and large renewable fishing resources. Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja are spawning grounds for the largest cod population in the world. Herring, shivering and say shivering here too. Almost all Norwegian catches of cod and hay, respectively 93 pst. and 85 pst., made in the Barents Sea and Lofoten area. The number is also high for herring, shrimp and sein. The area of the Barents Sea – Lofoten has approx. 5 million breeding pairs of seabirds. Røst has the largest marine colony along the mainland of Europe. Birdfowls have great international value. The bottom is mapped through the MAREANO programme. New species and nature types will be discovered. Many findings have been made of troubling and vulnerable species and nature types. Coral reefs have a large biological deficiency, and an assumption that they have a significant impact on fish growth and survival. The whole range of petroleum activities is defined in the management plans for each individual sea area. In the up-to-date management plan for the Barents Sea-Lofoten in 2011, the Government, with the agreement of the Stortinget's subsequent agreement, decided not to implement the impact assessment under the Petroleum Act in Northland VII and Troms II, and in unopened parts of Troms IV, V and VI during this flooding period. In the open sections of Northern Ireland VI, there will be no petroleum activity during this grossing-up period. In summary, I believe that management plans are a good way to manage our important seas. So I just want to link a few brief comments to the debate so far. I sat and listened to the posts, and with the rest of it saying that it might have a look at a word or a sentence, I don't believe any of the posts from the three largest parties, nor the post from the Christian People's Party, including climate change or climate in one word. This is primarily a debate about the protection of the areas in question, so in a way, I can see that it's most in the centre. But in 2013 we cannot discuss in Norway our oil and petroleum policy and petroleum extraction issues without looking at global climate change, simply because we know that most of our fossil resources must be submerged on the seabed if we are to have a chance to achieve the common goals that most of the parties in this room support. It's going to be with us in all of the decisions we're going to take about the oceans ahead. So I know that some people say that there's one sea area no worse than the other, and in one way it's true that it'll be important in all decisions, but there's a difference because resource estimates for these areas are dominated by oil, while resource estimates for some other fields and areas that we're discussing are dominated by gas. And in climate terms, there's a significant difference between oil and gas, and it's known to be an even greater difference between oil and coal. In the end, I want to join in what several people have said before me, that I thought we should talk about the areas outside the Western Isles, the Lofoten and the Senja in the optimistic tone that the areas are condensing. The Nordic regions of Norway have not had a similar positive development in decades that they now have. The fact that the Lofoten and the Vestreål are experiencing this now is related to completely different things than the petroleum industry. It is linked to population growth, with immigration to the areas and with permanent possibilities that exist here. So I would also say that even though the representative Skei Grande and Left end up in a bad company, she held a brilliant post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1491	The councils are right that there was little in any case I mentioned climate. But the Council of State was within the IEA, the International Energy Agency. They say that based on the constant and even increasing world demand for petroleum products, Norway should produce as much petroleum product as one can only because our extraction of just this product and our production is the most environmentally friendly product in the world. Does the Council of State mean, then, that we should replace Norwegian petroleum products with foreign ones, which are worse than the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1496	I have also received an announcement from a representative who was in Norway, who was interpreted in that direction, but what the report says is a review of how we have to look at the pool of resources if we are to reach the two-degree target, given certain instructions. Let's talk about 50 pst. chance of reaching the two-degree target and an assumption that we have significant success with CCS. In that case, we will have to drop heavily on coal, a good deal down on oil, while gas can presumably grow for some decades to come. The basic problem is that although Norway luckily produces petroleum with less emissions than many others – we are at the level of many of the best – it is the main way out of use. And fossil energy use, whether it's from car or other, is not going to be better, whether it's from Norway or Saudi Arabia or Venezuela. The basic problem is our use of fossil energy, that we have to use other energy sources, and that therefore we have to let essential parts of our oil resources, including in Norway, lie in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1503	I did not get any answers to what I asked for: When the world’s production of petroleum product is as it is, and even is increasing, and we stand for the most environmentally friendly production, is it natural that we reduce our production, and that as a substitute for it we will see that other producers will have to produce what we do not produce, more climate-damaging and more environmentally hostile?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1508	That's not what I argued for, and that's not what we're discussing today. We're discussing some areas where we might be opening up an impact assessment in the future, as some might, because we might have to have petroleum activity in 10-20 years – sometimes far into the future. Not opening up areas where we're going to produce far into the future, at a time when the world must have lower oil production, is open-mindedly sensible. But the fact that we were going to turn off the taps on the petroleum production today would give no immediate effect. We rely on the world to make an agreement that sets a price for CO2. But if we can do it, if the world is closed down with our climate policy, it will lead to lower demand for fossil energy, especially what has high CO2 emissions, like oil and even more coal, and then we'll see that opening new fields today does not have the same profitability. And as the representative Skei Grande said so well, if we're not going to let the areas open outside of Lofoten, where are we going to keep them open?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1519	This representative of the IEA to which the Council of State referred is one of the directors of the IEA, Fatih Birol. So no one has encouraged Norway to produce what we can, precisely because we are among the most environmentally friendly producers in the world. But back to the fact that the Council of State missed the word «climate» in our article. I think perhaps the Council of State is drawing the argument well far when, on the one hand, he now opens the Barents Sea south-east and on the other hand will not open outside the Lofoten-Westerålen and argues with climate as a cause. With all due respect for estimates and what must be of oil and gas in the different areas, we actually don't know so much about this, so I think it's a sylt thin argument. Perhaps the Council of State has a little bit better arguments on the subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1526	I have a lot of arguments to ask, but let's stick to this debate now. It is true that the estimate is uncertain, but the estimates we have are probably – after the memory – that in the Barents Sea south-east is 80-85 pst. gas, and in the area outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja I think it's two thirds oil. The two areas are very different, but the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja and the areas of the Barents Sea south-east are different in many other areas as well. For example, the Barents Sea is south-east quite similar to the rest of the Barents Sea when it relates to environmental values. We've considered that very carefully in the past. The truth is, it would have been taken into account in the same way if it wasn't because it was then a controversial area – while many of us here have argued very well that the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja are special. I therefore found it quite appropriate, as was said here: Where should a non-petroleum activity outside Norway if one should have it outside the Lofoten?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1533	To the debate on the IEA: I'm a little concerned that one should not do what the IEA says, to the only true about everything, even if an absolute listener to the IEA. When you look at the resource estimates, which the Council of State correctly points to, it is clear that there is gas there will be more need in 2035, while the need for oil and coal will go down. But that's exactly what the Council of State says, a 50-50 estimate. There is an uncertainty as to whether there is enough in itself to reach the two-degree target. I just wanted to say – since the Council of State mentioned the Christian People's Party in relation to climate – that we will be concerned with reducing Norwegian oil tempo. That is why I am not afraid that there may be a decline in the future. At the same time, I can't let the opportunity go from me to say that I agree that there is a great difference between the Lofoten, the Vestral and other areas. But as I said in my post: the resources estimates are approx. for e.g. Johan Sverdrup and in Lofoten and Vesterålen. Does the Council of State have a good conscience to say yes to those areas – if it is as important as he suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1538	Let me first say that I thought the representative Roppstad had a useful point in the beginning. It is very uncertain how different fossil energies — and the balance between them — will affect the climate in the future. There are different premises that form the basis. Some, e.g. says one will have 80 pst. the chance of reaching the two-degree target is much greater in fossil resources. You can't decide which energy sources you get - it's a surrogate price that will bite at it. So to the question: I have a pretty good conscience for important parts of Norwegian petroleum policy. When we found oil in Norway in its time, we didn't know about the climate problem. The oil has been of great pleasure and benefit to Norway, but now I have to say that my conscience is most attached to a gradual turn of that policy. The most important thing is to prevent us from making crazy decisions that open up fields for the future, and that we can continue to use many of the resources that we have and that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1545	I don't think that I and the Council of State disagree very much on this. But when Erik Solheim was a state councillor, he started a project on the world heritage area in Lofoten, which I think is a great opportunity to develop travel life, business and the brand Lofoten is for the outside world. So I want to ask the council what he thinks about that work. Is it a work that can be resumed, and does it not provide great opportunities to develop the Lofoten?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1551	I think that's a pretty big potential in it. Work was suspended because one year ago locally did not want to continue before the management plan, the last round, was submitted. There was a great deal of interest among the political leaders in the region to move on with oil extraction, and one was afraid that this could be a delimitation. Then a new decision was taken in the Regional Council to try to move forward. I have in retrospect had at least one or two meetings with them about it. We have waited for it to happen, for example: because of the current knowledge acquisition. I actually think it's now in May the report we ordered about the world heritage – and the potential there – comes. So with some rest: I'm not quite up-to-date on the timing, but I think there'll be a public report on this in a short time. Then it is natural to look at the ways in which you should continue to work on that theme, and whether it still has the necessary local support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1556	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1561	Either you're in favour or you're against. This debate bears the mark of it. I think it is quite amazing when the representative Trine Skei Grande goes up to the pulpit with some gallups showing that people in Northern Norway – in North Norway – are against it. I almost perceive that the whole of North Norway is against an impact assessment of Northland IV and VII and Troms II. I think it's amazing. The representative of Trine Skei Grande asks a lot of questions, so I want to ask her questions about where she got this from. One local government in Lofoten and the Vesterålen have said no to impact assessment, and that is Røst. There is also a majority in favour of an impact assessment of these areas. I don't understand what the problem is with an impact assessment. Here you talk almost like you're going to open these areas pretty soon. No, it's first impact assessment, and then it'll be many years before you open up the areas. That's what this is about. I refer, inter alia, to: to parts of Nordland VI, which were closed – I take reservations – in 2000, with the State Council of Olav Akselsen. It is not yet opened. I think you should keep your tongue a little bit straight in your mouth right when it comes to that bit, and not talk about opening. The greatest threat to the environment is not that these areas are under way. The greatest threat to the environment is tank traffic along the coast. It's no one to mention in this discussion – no, because this has become a symbolic matter, like some other things in this room. I want to show that I actually think it is important to take into account that the Nordic population is entitled to the possibility of an impact assessment, of the possibility of industrial growth and employment in co-existence with fisheries and tourism. I want to bring one more thing with regard to housing: in North Norway, we are struggling with a shift away and a sloppy and unfortunate age composition. In 1960, 50 years ago, there were a little over 237,000 inhabitants in Northern Ireland. At the beginning of 2011, the figure was reduced by 1000. This may not be so dramatic, but when the population of Norway increased by almost 1.4 million people in the same period, we see that the Nordic countries are not coming out very well. Rogaland, which in 1960 had nearly the same population as Northern Ireland, has experienced an increase of almost 200,000 people over the same period, almost exclusively attributable to petroleum activities. I think it says a little bit about the development in these areas. That is why it is so important for us to launch an impact assessment and look at the opportunities for opening up these areas. It's not about starting drilling tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1574	Many people use the word 'dreams' in this debate. I think the dreams are fairly evenly distributed across the whole country. I think there are many parents around the district of Norway – in Utkant-Norway – who have a dream of letting their son or daughter grow up in their own region and see an opportunity for development in their region, in the same way that you see growth and development on the "Gull Coast", from the Trøndelag border and southwards – not least with the many cranes seen in this region. No one shall hide that petroleum activity is associated with risk. But the Marine Research Institute has said something about risk — if you take the trouble to read about what the worst-case consequences can be in the form of a potential accident. There should certainly not have been any activity in the Norwegian Sea and definitely not in the Barents Sea. You should stop all ship traffic. You should also have the respect for local democracy – which the representative Stroem had in mind – that you listened to ten of the eleven municipalities say yes to the impact assessment. You should have sat in, and reflected a little bit around, what kind of outcome it has for these huge areas. This is not a restricted area. But we see the very sad population development of these regions over the past 25-30 years, where export article No. 1 has been sending boys and girls south to this region in particular, but also to a special extent to the West. I believe that when we have a debate like this, we must take into account that Northland VI and VII and Troms II are an enormous geographical area. There is no one talking about running any kind of political Russian ruleet or commercial Russian ruleet, or about stabbing the production trail into a coral reef. It must not be forgotten that this is a business where we have 40 years of experience, with the world's top standards in technology and the environment. That's why I think that those who exhibit it all, the greatest resistance to the fact that this part can also be assessed in terms of something other than UNESCO status, that is, a bunch of people walking around the hoists and construction machines in this part of the country. So please don't talk on behalf of those who live in this region, who fight every day to figure out how to get a job for their daughter or son.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1583	The debate on oil activity outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja creates a great deal of commitment. This applies both to those who are open and – not least – to those who are opposed. In this case, the debate in the north and south is different. While the debate in the north is about taking into account fishing interests and about the desire for more regional development and opportunities for young people, the debate in the south is marked by campaigns and slogans, where Lofoten, the West and Senja become a kind of icon for untouched Norway. I myself come from Southreisa in Troms, which lies right within Senja. The sea area outside is Northland VII and Troms II. I therefore know very well what attitudes people in the region have on this issue. Let me therefore state the following: there is today considerable activity both on land and in the sea in this area. One thing is certain: the people of the north do not want any more protection, either on land or on the sea. The people of the north don't want to be an exhibition window for untouched nature. The people in the north, on the other hand, are activities that can create development in their own region and for their own youth. Today there is a high level of fishing and aquaculture activity in the area, and Senja is one of the largest centres of gravity of the marine food industry in the region. The people of the north have ambitions to take an active part in the growth of the aquaculture industry, where North Norway has a natural advantage. The same applies in the mineral industry, which has a high potential in the north, also in Senja. To do this, no more protection is needed. Active policies are needed that provide the basis for optimism in the north. Our future oil activity in areas beyond the Lofoten, the West Sea and Senja will largely focus on how this industry can live with the coastal fisheries and aquaculture industries. If we find good solutions for interaction and technology that do this safely enough, I am optimistic about the fact that it will be possible to do so once in the future. That's what history has shown us. However, what is clearly underlined in this debate is that there is a very large gap between the Progress Party and the Right – which will go straight to the opening of the whole area – and the Left and, in part, the Christian People's Party, which will have permanent protection. It's with respect to report completely the opposite view these stand for. I therefore ask: what common policy do these four parties have in this area? The voters must know whether there is a full opening of oil activity throughout the area concerned or whether there is permanent protection which is the common policy of these four parties. There are elected representatives who have the right to know before the election. When the Left Party and the Christian People's Party turn to the chest and say that they are in favour of permanent protection, there is no credibility – when at the same time they have thought about working together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, which says 'drill, baby drill'.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1602	I noticed that the number of jobs in the oil and gas industry is being reduced in a way. A report from IRIS shows that today we have approx. 10000 jobs linked to the oil and gas industry in the north. Everyone knows what it's had to say, especially for those places where the industry is, but also for the whole part of the country. Not surprisingly, this has been a debate with a great deal of perceptiveness, and the greatest of all is the gap between the opposition parties – as the representative Lange Nordahl also pointed out. Here the Progress Party and the Right say that they will have a high pace of petroleum activity. It seems as if they're going to drill for the first time. At the same time, their incoming government partner Left says that they want permanent protection of the area – which means far more than protecting oil and gas, as I see it. We're used to protection in the north. The Christian People's Party says about the same thing. I respect, of course, that there is a different view in such an important matter, but now stop talking about the cracks of the government parties, as long as the cracks are much larger in the opposition. I'm worried about the amount of action this could give if it turned around after the election and the opposition would get the control. I am pleased that today's government parties have so far been able to find common solutions that have given progress and development to the petroleum industry in the north, while preserving the environment. Yeah, I'm actually talking to people in the north and in the Lofoten and the Vesterål, so nice to hear. But I see it as people who are concerned that industries should be able to live side by side also in the north, and that there should be ways of exploiting resources that protect both our business and our nature – as it has been for over 40 years in other parts of the country. It must not be an overall goal to imitate the northern part of the country, without looking at all the possibilities for new legs to stand on there too. I hear what the representative Skei Grande says, but the future shouldn't be like this in the north that we're just going to show up to people coming north to see what we look like, we're clinging up up there in a protected area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1615	I take the word because there have been some different claims that I would like to comment on. The representative Sande says that the Right Party and the Advance Party produce this as if opening in these areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole were to be a commodity or not for the industry. It's with respect to not reporting properly. What is my message is that we have a challenge in terms of maintaining production volume beyond 2020. If we're going to be able to achieve that ambition, we're going to have to open up new areas. The areas of the Lofoten and the Vesterølen have been studied quite a lot. We know that there are promising areas in terms of actually making drifty findings. That's why it's important for us to open these areas in order to maintain volume. When the representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, refers to the high level of activity now, which is argument against not opening, I just want to remind you that we are talking about long hours of rental so that production is actually started. That means that if we opened up the areas today, it would be like 10 to 20 years before the areas were actually in production. Arguing with a high level of activity today is going to be wrong with these long le-times. In this country, we have managed to build a lot of industry based on our oil and gas resources. If we are to be able to develop further and have new innovation in the industry, we need to give the industry new challenges. Let's do that, for example. by making strict requirements for good co-existence, environmental considerations, etc. That's what kind of drives industry and products on. If we are to continue to have a major industry linked to this – a major oil technology industry – it is important that we open up to new areas. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, asked the question, if we don't protect here, where are we going to protect? She points out that we want to see platforms from land, we want to see cranes, construction traffic, etc. Now, a lot has happened throughout our 40-year oil history – which I assume the representative Trine Skei Grande has also brought with him – namely, that it is among other things. much more is happening under water, ‘subsea’, today. The fact that there are platforms on the surface of the sea does not have to be obvious. It's clear that with the narrow base that's outside of Lofoten, which clearly represents challenges, it's clear that there are many solutions that are compatible with both what may be of aesthetics and what may be in the interests of other industries. It is clear that through technology and products we can also take that kind of consideration for good co-existence. To Bård Vegar Solhjell, who called for climate change in this respect, I just want to remind you that the petroleum industry must also relate to the EU's quota system. They are covered by this system and its ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1628	I very much agree with Bendiks H. Arnesen that there is reason to be happy that the government has managed to find a common solution in terms of oil drilling in the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja in the eight years we have ruled. I'm sure we'll get it done for four new years. I think there are many young people -- I've been talking to many of them -- who want to ask themselves that middle-aged men push the youth in front of them and demand oil drilling on their behalf. Not on my behalf, say many youths. Step Skei Grande asked which areas should be petroleum-free, if not Lofoten. I guess the closest answer is actually from Siri A. Meling, who said there's no reason to think that some areas are going to be petroleum-free, the solution is in technology. Ivar Kristiansen replied by rolling over everything else that could be dangerous. So that means you're completely ignoring the climate challenges. Here in the day we got new figures on climate change emissions in Norway. They give some reason for optimism, because they are falling and have not been lower since 1995. For industry, it's 40 pst. decrease in relation to 1990 and 50 pst. Productivity growth and housing have fallen dramatically. But it's a significant mess, and it's the oil and gas industry, which is 70 pst. on emissions in 1990. If we are committed to achieving the climate objectives, something has to happen in this area. The big dilemma is that the expansion of the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja are unlikely to be profitable if the world's fossil energy consumption is adapted to the 2-degree target. So there's been a disagreement about what the people think in this case. The Gallups clearly show that people say no to oil drilling in the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, but there is hardly a majority for impact assessment under the petroleum law. We know that, and it's important to find out that it's not a question of whether to open or not, but it's a question of what basis to open. So it's a plan for opening. So, more people say that the question of drilling in Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja will apply in 10-20 years. But Lofoten can't wait 20 years. I'm afraid there's been a blind trail here that makes you sit and wait for the oil instead of developing the industries that exist in the Lofoten. World heritage alone will, for example, be able to provide more jobs in management, travel and accommodation than oil and gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1643	The government has created an entire electoral campaign strategy that is about the concept of ‘to talk down’. The criticism of the government is to talk down. I've learned that. What I'm jumping over is the need to talk down this region. In a single Google search while I was sitting here, I found a source that I guess comes from the area, the Lofot post, which published an article a few months ago, where it says: ‘In 2011, Lofoten believed alone at the top, but now Salt has equalled, according to Index Nordland for 2013. Index Nordland is issued by the Nordland County Municipality, NAV Nordland, the Knowledge Park AS Bodø, NHO Nordland, the Nordlandsbanken ASA and Innovation Norway.» There's no one from Oslo, I think it's just people from the north. In addition, it stated: ‘One of the reasons why the Lofoten remains the best is that the region scores the full employment growth peak in the last five years. In terms of turnover, there is a slight decline, while Lofoten can record a slight increase in the area of population growth. There is a very positive population development in Northern Ireland – so positive that we can record growth in the population in more than half of the municipalities in the county, says a very happy nutrition council Arve Knutsen in the Nordland County Municipality.’ There is nutritional potential in this region — it is a great potential. But I think you're being tricked if you think it's oil that should be the solution when oil can actually be the problem. Here one has been tricked as to how many jobs this represents. This one in the room that should be enthusiastic about the number of jobs, is the representative Meling, because she represents a region that will really get jobs if we build this region. It's in Stavanger these jobs are coming. Swallowing if there has been some growth in areas related to and around Brønnøysund, this is quite little compared to the growth that has occurred in the Meling region of choice. I understand the enthusiasm of that area. Irene Lange Nordahl felt that there were no differences in government party policy in this area. I hadn't mentioned that. I hadn't taken it up in one word. It has always been that we have two parties on the socialist side and two on the civil side that have fought to stop expansion. All of these parties have managed to stop it in government. I have faith that in a red-green government, SV and the Center Party will still fight to stop a Lofoten expansion, and I'll make sure that if we get a new government, the Christian People's Party and the Left will fight to stop a Lofoten expansion. We've done that before, and we're going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1668	This has certainly been a debate. How clarifying he has been can well be discussed – but a little in familiar tracks. What I wanted to do in the final phase was actually the way we talk about and discuss the region of North Norway. I also say this to my good friends and colleagues in the Central Party and the Labour Party, with whom I work well, and who have our way up here: Is North Norway a region which is protected without any possibility, and which is now in danger of standing on a bare ground in the future? It's not in my whole picture. I'd rather say that I now experience North Norway as a region with greater potential. I want to say that seven-eight years of red-green government in part have some of the era for it, but I think there are other things too. But there are greater possibilities than in a very long time. There are many industries with great potential and development, such as farming, fishing, tourism, oil, research, mineral industry, etc. Nor is it the case that the majority of the area in North Norway is protected, but only a very small part of national parks and other protected areas exist there. If we're talking about an area in Norway where there's a lot of protection, it's the Gudbrand valley. It's an area where there are really large national parks. Lesja is probably the most protected municipality in Norway. How bad has Nord-Gudbrandsdalen gone? Well, a recent report shows that they have about 200 million. SEK on the market associated with these protected areas. There are hundreds of thousands of nights spent in national parks, and a lot of money is spent on the fact that they have a host of popular outings. Do they have challenges with that? Yeah, sure, but I also think it's part of the image that we have to tell the stories about the possibilities that lie in all of our regions. I recognize it from Sogn and Fjordne where I have grown up myself. There's also a part of the same challenges, but it's a fantastic state with great potential, and one has managed to make good use of them. There are challenges, yes, yes, but we as politicians and leaders also have to tell about and develop the positive possibilities that lie in our regions, especially at a time when North Norway may have more opportunities than they have had in many decades. I thought that, regardless of the point of view of this matter, it is important that we do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1675	I have to take the floor to address the representative, Mr Egeland, on a number of points. He says that the government parties have found together. Yes, but not in the open room. They've come together under Jens Stoltenberg's whip, because it's a fact that most of the workers' party representatives who don't sit in the central Oslo and eastern part of the world, they're for us to go further with this precisely developing North Norway as an oil region. So, Aegean says that middle-aged men push the youth in front of them. Is that like some kind of alibi to understand? It must be the municipal government representatives who are middle-aged. After all, ten out of eleven local government officials in Lofoten have gone in to further develop the oil industry. Eggland asks which areas are to be petroleum-free. To that answer, does it need to be areas that are petroleum-free? We're going to develop that industry, and that's going to be the Progress Party, that's going to be the Right, and that's going to be part of the Workers' Party. That industry has shown for 40 years that it has very good and safe working methods, and this must be done in Lofoten and Senja and that area as well. It was said that the land industry has significantly reduced emissions over the past ten to fifteen years – I know that because I have been part of that industry, and that is very good – but that the oil and gas industry is a mess. Yes, it is possible, but it is a fact that what is produced in the Norwegian sector, it has some of the smallest emissions that exist. That it's being burned elsewhere in the world, we haven't been so busy in Norway. Only we have sold it and got it into our state budget or our “money,” it has been acceptable. We must continue to do that, otherwise we will have problems in this country. Then it's the opinion on the World Heritage Project. What's going to happen if you go too far with that project is that you want to put a damp blanket over this area in the north. The statement that the World Heritage Project will provide more jobs than the petroleum industry, I don't believe in that. We can have both. We can have a work life that has a diversity, including oil, and that's what we have to bet on. Skei Grande may be a bit right about Stavanger getting jobs, but what is good for Stavanger is also good for Norway. There is a clear majority in this Chamber who will go further with the oil work in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1689	There are probably some people who believe that the debate is being debated, but it is such an important debate that it should last a long time. When the representative Skei Grande says I'm talking down the county and the region, I think it's a little expensive to get such accusations against him. I've spent 44 years of my life in politics talking up the part of the country I live in, and I've been going to live in as long as there's breathing in me. I have tried to contribute as much as I can to get activity, increased housing and more jobs. That's what it takes to survive. I want activity and housing as you have it in the country, as you have it in the south. We've now seen effects in Hammerfest, we're starting to see it in Harstad, we've seen it in Helgeland, etc., and that's what I want us to get more of, whether it's in oil, gas or other industries. I can't believe it's talking down the county that you want more people and more activity. It's weird that when you talk about North Norway, it has to be either – or, otherwise in the country, it has to be a boat – and. Why is that so? I appreciate good debates, but now let it go on a factual level and without adding to people's opinions that they have not at all expressed. I've had this attitude toward petroleum and other things throughout my political life, and if it was like that I didn't speak in line with what was the majority of the people's opinion, I would hardly have been elected to the Storting four periods. Then I have to say, I think it's a good idea to be accused of talking down the part of the country. If there's something that touches me at the heart of my soul, it's getting such accusations against me. That's the part of the country I've fought most for in my political life. Let the level of factuality continue in this debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1698	That's really what I should also take the word for, this almost to be accused of talking down the continent when you want activity. No, in the years I've been on the Storting, I've been talking the part of the country up, because I'm busy with business development, I'm busy with jobs, I'm concerned that the youth will come home to be there, to thrive and have exciting jobs to go to. It has to be a diversity. I was on a project at home at Helgeland in the middle of Christmas called – I mentioned it before – ‘We want to go home’. There were 50 kids who were there, and I talked to many of them, and then I'd say I'm talking to the people. They want to get home to exciting jobs. They refer to Hammerfest, they refer to Lake Sandness, to what has happened, and to the evolution that has been there. If you go back a few years and see how different the situation was in Lake Sandness – because that's where the activity started – then there was great unemployment and pessimism, but now there's optimism in this area, and that's very good. I therefore think the debate on this particular point should be a little more nuanced. I think it's important that you have more legs to stand on. In Helgeland, protected areas are good. But aren't you supposed to use the natural resources you have? That's exactly what's important in this context, that you do it in co-existence and in such a way that you get something that doesn't die by itself, in relation to fishing, etc. You have to have a context in these things, so that you do it in a proper and proper way. When you talk about having alternative jobs, what are you talking about? Is this the way to move out government jobs from Oslo and around the districts? I was at Stortinget when it happened from 2001 to 2005. It was a speck and a struggle without equal when you were going to move some jobs around, to Bodø and elsewhere. We remember that exact part. That's why it's important that we use our natural resources. I have a clipping here of something that was printed in many newspapers, where reference is made to the fact that the youth is opposed to oil activity – no, that's the opposite. There are many young people who are in favour of oil activity and who want alternative jobs, including: in the Lofoten-Westerålen area. I think you should take that seriously. You must not see black and white in this debate. You also have to take into account that there are others who want other activities in these areas, for example. in the case of oil and gas. That's what I think you should take with you in the further work, when you see that it's also young people who want to develop and have a future in the north and a future in the part of the country. Reference has been made several times both to Lake Sandness and to what is happening, among other things. in Hammerfest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1709	The representative, Lars Egeland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1712	I drew myself to the representative Skumsvoll's posts. It was obvious that he was completely incomprehensible to the question of whether some areas needed to be petroleum-free! And then he didn't believe what I said about world heritage. This wasn't a number I just threw out. The source is Professor Allan Sande of the University of Northern Ireland, who has been working with world heritage for many years, and who says that here there is a potential of at least 600 jobs. World heritage is not just about nature, it is also about the culture of fisheries, that is, what has been the industry in Lofoten, and the big problem is if the world heritage is parked in waiting for jobs related to oil in 10 or 20 years' time. It would be tragic, and I think you have many other development opportunities of business in Lofoten that could be parked pending oil. I believe that this is a matter that is similar in many ways to the two EU votes we have had and where the conflicts are many of the same. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1719	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has also spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1722	The last time I was in Lofoten, which was not so many weeks ago, I was at a public meeting in Ballstad where it was staggering to the edge, and there was one working party in the hall – a former fisheries minister – who was the only one who argued for oil drilling. Of course, it is possible that they were picked up from Oslo and dressed up as northerners, and it is possible that they had gone to the dialect, and that this was just a joke and a game for the gallery to trick me. But to claim that it concerns all the popular resistance, it's wrong! Then I understand that it is the Workers' Party that has a monopoly on the term ‘speech down’ – we are not going to use it, because there are some others who have the right to use it. I want to reserve the right to believe that when someone makes their own region as a deportation region with no opportunity, and that this is the only thing that can save them, you talk the region down. I believe that there is much greater drive in this region than there has to be someone coming from outside and pumping up the oil to manage to save them. I have much greater faith in Lofoten than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1729	Let me first say that I am infinitely proud of the part of the country I live in, and I am very concerned about creating opportunities and optimism, not least on behalf of our young people in the north. It has been claimed that youth in the north is against oil activity in the north – and ‘north’ is so numerous, it is not just Lofoten and the West Sea and Senja; ‘north’ is large sea areas. Then I just have to be informed that there is a significant commitment and interest among young people in oil activity in the north. Among other things, I can indicate that the search for petroleum-oriented education in the north has doubled in a few years. I think it is very gratifying that young people in the north also qualify for this industry in our own part of the country. It is precisely that youth rates that make it possible to create ring-effects and optimism! Let me also point out that when Aker Solutions established its department in Tromsø, there were more than 1,000 applications for 300 jobs, and very many of the applicants were relocated to Northern countries who wanted to move home. Tomorrow I will participate in the opening of Statoil's Drift North in Harstad – a great victory for all of us who have fought this battle for many years. We need more decision-making functions to the north, and they're coming. I am a great enthusiast on North Norway's behalf and that young people will have the opportunity to create optimism and future in the north. I am also a living enthusiast for the seafood industry, the mineral industry, travel life, the maritime industry, and not least for Arctic agriculture. That is why I am concerned that we should make use of the opportunities – for the benefit of all the people in the north. Then we don't need any more protection. We need to move forward carefully, also for new industries. We just have to make sure that we make sure that North Norway gets its share of the opportunities in this country. These possibilities shall not remain here in Oslo or in Stavanger or in other parts of the country. We have to take advantage of the opportunities to create optimism in the north. We want to go to the top in the north – on the positive statistics, not on the negative ones. I see a growing optimism, the youth wants to bet, and then the Stortinget must not help to stop the optimism that is now at the root of developments in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1744	It's really strange to see the right-wing representative, Lange Nordahl, tumbling over the civilians and how little they collect. It's enough to remember about the snowmobile debate, so see a how to gather the red-green are! And further, when we see the representative of Egeland's posts versus Lange Nordahl's posts, one can ask who has failed its part of the country. At least I'm not in doubt about the name I'm going to put on it. We also see that this danger that the country's territory will be bypassed by the fact that the activity will take place further north, which means that a person will lose future jobs, is most relevant to this area that we are now talking about. Unfortunately, we have an example of this today. The leadership of the Energy and Environment Committee is strongly underrepresented when it comes to petroleum workplaces, because one was not awake enough and made sure that a job was allocated to this particular industry. We were recently visiting and listening to the number of jobs where – I am happy for each and every one, I would stress – and when we know that there are 25 000 jobs attached to this industry in the county north, then we can see how important this industry is for people, for the part of the country, and not least for the nation. I have to say it's a pleasure to the right representatives Arnesen and Stroem's posts. They fight for jobs and for one to be allowed to develop also in Northern and Troms, and that is all reason to have all the respect for. In any case, I feel that their posts are more real in relation to future possibilities than what we belong to the Center Party, and especially from the representative Lange Nordahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1753	I agree with the Council of State that it has been a debate, but I am not so sure if I think it has been a good debate. I think we owe this hall more than adding each other's personal characteristics to each other's debts to ‘speech down’ their own part of the country or ‘fail’ their own part of the country. On the other hand, we too, who don't want to open these areas, have to be trusted that we are also happy in our northern part of the country. We are also busy with growth, development and employment and getting young people back to that part of the country, although we have a different recipe than those who want to open up to petroleum in these areas. So I hope I can shape future debates that we're going to have in this room on this topic. Then, too, the question of what to put in «consequences» has been commented, which we often end up with in these debates: is there a question of whether to open or not, or is what the representative Meling says, not a question about it, but a question of which premise to be the basis for when to open an area? Well, history suggests that it's the representative Meling who's right. I don't think it was necessarily the case that the local government representatives who spoke on this topic in the Lofoten and the West Pole left it to reason, but that they may have taken into account Stroem and Arnesen's definition of consistency, and may feel that they are now being drawn to income in order to like to open the area, while what they really wanted was more knowledge and nothing more than that. Finally, the representative Grimstad refers to Sogn and Fjordane. Well, I thought the answer to the representative Grimstad was a little too simple. It is not that Sogn and Fjordne did not ask for the ringing effects of the petroleum industry. Rather, the example of Sogn and Fjordne shows that there is no automatic link between the oil industry and the state, even if it happens directly outside the stod door. It should also be a crossroads of thought for those who want petroleum in the Lofoten and the West Sea, but also in other areas along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1762	If anyone thinks that I am engaged in North Norway and this matter, that is quite correct. That's why I have to say a few more words. I have repeatedly spoken in this debate and today said that I want North Norway to have more legs to stand on, not just petroleum, just fish or just hotel accommodation, as it might sound like to me in an article earlier today. There's more than me that will do just this. That's why I've also been to a lot of meetings in the north, with a lot of attendance, which has the same view as me. Yes, I have actually received criticism that I have done nothing more to get more legs to stand on in the north, and that is a criticism, of course, I take note of. It's not just oil and gas we want. We want an all-round business that provides jobs, housing and predictability and a long-term belief that up there it is possible to live and establish – where we may be at risk, or there we will be. It's not a for and against this, it's about a boat – and we're going to look at all the possibilities that the northern part of the country will also be given more legs to stand on. We need fishermen, we need farmers, we need hotel staff – perhaps more now than before we started getting the petroleum industry to the north – but we also need more. I have to ask you to show some understanding of that. In fact, I believe that this will also be the result of this debate in the time to come. Of course, as the representative Sande had in mind, I have respect for every view, but I have to be believed that I want North Norway to have a good future with many legs to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1773	I also come from North Norway myself, and I agree with many of the representatives who have been up and said how important this is for the future of North Norway. Unfortunately, today we have a government that wants to protect North Norway. We have municipalities that are protected across borders. In the municipality of Saltdal you have actually protected 75 pst. by the entire municipality. They have problems doing business because they've protected everything they want to wear industrial spaces and other things. This way, we can't have it up in North Norway. North Norway is struggling today with deportation. If you go into the demography and look at the relocation, you see that unfortunately it happens to them between 20 and 40 years – in other words, the people who are going to work and give something back to society to keep it going. If you also go in and look at polls about whether you're going to open up or not, you're going to see that there are people over 50 who say no, you want what you've always had. But if you go in and look at those who are going to live and have the future there, the youth, they say yes, we want it, because we want a job to go to. Then also those who are out taking an education can move home and get a job and be at home where they thrive best. We also see from the demography that during 2030, the Western Rope will lose 10,000 people if it continues in the same way as it is now. The equivalent of 10,000 inhabitants is that the entire Vågan municipality and Svolvær will be gone. Then it's no use having more Lofoten. You can't live on the fact that you have German camper tourists, you actually have to have something to work with. That's why it's important to do it. And it's not just the Western Pole: throughout Ofoten and Hålogaland, where I come from, there is great enthusiasm in, among other things. industry, which is now getting ready for the oil adventure. They're out to do the tests and get the qualifications they need to get into the oil adventure. We see newly established welding companies, we see a lot of positive things, but we won't see that if we don't make this happen. Some are also afraid that an oil leak or an outbreak will damage the Lofoten. If you follow the way the Gulf Stream goes, it's like if you get a "blowout" in the Lofoten, it probably goes up and gets in the Ofoten and where I come from. But if you get a blowout now on Helgeland, it'll end up in Lofoten. But nobody's talking about it. So I want to say that now I think it's time we listened to what North Norway itself wants. North Norway wants something to happen, that they get to be in the future and get jobs and growth. There we have opportunities, and then we obviously have to have a government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1787	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1801	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1808	The draft representative suggests that the Stortinget should ask the government to put forward proposals to end the ban on the use of lead hail for hunting. In the vote, the Progress Party takes up this proposal, but they also agree with the Right and Christian People's Party on a note and a proposal to remove the ban on the use of lead hail only in hunting on land and open seas. It's a little bit unclear what the Progress Party wants, but I'm assuming that the Progress Party and the minority are doing the right thing for their own proposals. The plurality, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, state that the proposal is annexed to the minutes. We do that because we think it is right to acquire additional knowledge about the effect of lead hail other than wetlands and shooting paths for health and the environment. In this work, the Ministry must have close contact with Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federation, which has taken up and argued to remove the ban on the use of lead hail in land and sea hunting. We believe that any new knowledge of significance must lead to a reassessment of this prohibition. On the basis of information provided by the Ministry of the Environment in a letter to the Committee dated 4 April, I thought it was probably drastic to remove this ban immediately. We have had a ban since 2005, and the Ministry writes that the ban is an important part of the national effort to spread lead, and that, on the basis of the ban, there is an impact assessment from 2001 and that the Ministry considers that there are good professional grounds for a total ban. It's a fact that lead is a heavy metal that doesn't break down into nature, and it accumulates in the food chain. It already appears toxic to plants and animals in small concentrations and may cause chronic toxic effects to many organisms. It is therefore, in my opinion, not unproblematic to use lead hail in nature. When it comes to wetlands and the shooting range of Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association, the ban should be maintained. Here is good evidence of the damage. On the other hand, Norway’s Hunters and Fishermen’s Association argues that there is little understanding among hunters about the prohibition of land use and open water because of the lack of professional evidence of the real danger of using lead hail here. I think it is important that we facilitate what we can call the folk sport – small game hunting with hail in the wild – to continue. It is also important that a user uses an ammunition that results in the least possible damage shooting and the most effective and humane killing. At the same time, it's important that we don't do anything that poisons nature and the ecological system. I note that there is some uncertainty about the damage caused by the use of lead hail on land is well documented, well enough to defend a ban. There is also a problem if alternative ammunition to lead hail is well discussed. I therefore believe that it is useful if the department in close contact with the Norwegian Federation of Hunters and Fishermen sees whether it is new relevant knowledge to gather that can provide a basis for a new assessment and a possible change to this ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1831	In Norway, we have had a total ban on lead hail since 2005, and organisations that organise the hunting environment have increasingly objected to this ban. The progress batch indicates that many have called for a professional basis for the total ban on the use of lead hail. There is no good professional evidence, based on the experience you now have, that lead poses a real risk of pollution in the forest, in the mountains or by seabird hunting over open water. It is also known that in Sweden there was an outstanding total ban on lead hail. But thorough analysis concluded that the risk of contamination from lead hail on land was so small that it did not defend a ban. The Parliament therefore rejected this proposal. For hunting in the field, lead hail is still the only type of hail that humanely kills the wild and that is safe to eat. In the hunting environment, one suggests that the lead-hail ban leads to more damage, which is very undesirable. The party of progress therefore believes that the ban is far too extensive, and that it should soften up and that one should allow lead hail for hunting in the mountains, in the woods and over open water. Yes, not only should the forbidden soften up, it should be removed in our opinion, as no one wants to defile or destroy nature through impure activity and the use of lead hail in areas where it can prove to be a potential for damage, such as in wetlands and on shooting routes. This is well-known by hunters and is therefore respected, and that is the background for our primary vision. It is also known that the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen wants to reintroduce lead ammunition for use on flatland and over the open sea, and that they believe there is no professional basis for a total ban on the use of lead hail for hunting. I take this up with me the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposal we agree with others on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1844	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1847	The proposers are raising an important debate with a view to lifting the ban on the use of lead hail. One has gained experience from several years of prohibition, and then it makes sense to assess whether the ban has worked properly. The debate on lead in hagle ammunition has been taking place for many years. In 1990, the Syse government put forward proposals to introduce an environmental tax on lead. There was not a general ban on lead hail, but in 1991 a ban on the use of lead hail for hunting at ends, geese and waders with the exception of rye was introduced. On 1 January 2005, a ban on lead-hazel munitions was introduced. The aim was to reduce the amount of lead that was scattered in nature. It was a concern that animals and humans could be poisoned by the fact that they had lead hail, and that lead is pollution in nature. The proposal to ban lead hail has led to many and, in part, to uplifting debates. The Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen has been an active party in this debate, and an important voice for the interests of hunters. At the end of the debate, the organisation was in line with the challenges of hunting birds in wetlands, and they thought that a ban should primarily target hunting in wetlands, and not hunting in more defined species. Right is the concern that significant damage to lead hail has been demonstrated when used for hunting in and at wetlands. Therefore, the Right does not want one to reverse the prohibition of any use of lead hail. Right wants to hold on to the prohibition against lead hail in wetlands and on shooting tracks, but Right wants to remove the prohibition against the use of lead hail in land hunting and over open sea until the proper alternative is in place. On the right, the proposal providers agree that most of the lead-haul options are not yet as good as lead-haul results. The importance of human hunting and the most effective killing of the game must be balanced against the risk of pollution. An important element that also speaks to allow the use of lead hail in hunting is that in the rest of Europe the use of lead hail in hunting is permitted, with the exception of Denmark and the Netherlands, where there is a total ban. In Sweden and Finland, there are restrictions on where lead hail is legally used. The main reason you have to use lead hail for hunting is the humane killing of the wild. The basis for society's acceptance for hunting also depends to a large extent on the fact that the hunt is carried out in an acceptable way, taking into account both the humane killing of the game and the safety of those who are hunting. A hunter has great respect for living animals and birds like a hunter, and an important part of the hunt is that they are killed in a humane way. A premise for this is that the hunter uses the weapons and ammunition that are suitable for the type of hunt to run. There are several factors that need to be considered when evaluating the different cartridges and their properties. Lead fills the requirements for hail material in a very good way and is particularly well suited as hail material. Lead is heavy at the same time as it is soft. This combination also means that lead doesn't mean rickshaws, corks for the hunter or anyone who's close to where the shots of hail are fired. The use of steel hail in areas with a bare rock or a lot of rock would pose a danger to the rich Baltic Sea. When alternative to lead is involved, there are more on the market today. There are different types of hail with different features, weight and price classes. Lighter types of tin, zinc and steel quickly lose their estimation energy. That's why these guys don't own anything but the smallest game. When it comes to the heavier types of bismuth and tongue, they can't be used in all types of hail. It's also very expensive ammunition, and the quality varies. Tungsten munitions are of tungsten, which also have a negative impact on the environment. It also has several of the alternatives to lead. There is no doubt that lead is in a special position the best shot material. Therefore, it is also right to remove the prohibition against the use of lead hail on land and over the open sea in order to ensure that there is as much humane hunting as possible and to prevent unnecessary damage to shooting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1868	From hunting teams it is claimed that the alternatives to lead hail are more expensive and that the cheap alternatives are poor and can lead to a higher proportion of damage shootings, as the representative Lødemel just explained. The issue is, is to assess these disadvantages against the environmental consequences of lifting the ban on lead hail. There is no disagreement that we should continue to have a ban on the use of lead hail on shooting tracks. There will also be no later disagreement on environmental damage by allowing lead hail used against birds in wetlands, rivers and lakes. The discussion is therefore about the use of lead hail in land hunting, where the Norwegian Hunters’ and Fishers’ Associations believe that the spread of lead will be very small, and that there is no reason to believe that birds and other animals take up lead, so that they get harm or pass it on to humans. On the other hand, the Minister for the Environment points to studies of Greenlandic seabirds, the detection of lead in yellow-balls for Norwegian birds of prey and a study carried out by the Veterinary Institute on Norwegian duck birds as a background to the extension of the limited lead-haul ban. It is important that we apply the precautionary principle, so that we have to be absolutely sure that it does not have environmental consequences if we now lift the lead ban. That other countries have chosen other solutions is not, in my view, a decisive argument. There are different hunting traditions. It is also true that the assessments made in Sweden are also known to the Ministry of the Environment. I would like to point out that the Minister for the Environment says that the Department will acquire new knowledge related to the effects of the lead-haul ban. Here, I think we have too poor a knowledge base to remove the ban, but also to the extent of the effects of a continued ban, so it is important that the ministry does this job of acquiring new knowledge. So the minister says that new knowledge could lead to a new assessment by the department. I think that is a correct assessment, given the very precautionary principle, that we need to be sure of the environmental impact of lifting the ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1881	For the centre part, the manager tank is high. Nature is the basis of all life and activity – it gives us everything from food, home, stream and clothing to leisure experiences such as hunting and fishing. For us, it is important that we have a resilient society where environmental policy has a popular basis, is understandable, knowledge-based and creates commitment. One of the issues that creates involvement in parts of the country is whether there is still a total ban on the use of lead hail for hunting. The characteristics of lead-haul as ammunition are so well mentioned before in the debate that I refer only to the case-speaker and also the representative Bjørn Lødemel's posts. We in the Center Party think there are good reasons to be restrictive with the use of lead because of the damage it may have. At the same time, lead hail is not as harmful no matter where it is used. In the case of wetlands and shooting path, the centre party does not see any reason to lift the ban. The accumulation of lead-haul on the firing path and the risk of contamination when used in wetlands is clear. In the case of other areas, there must be an assessment of whether the prohibition should continue to apply on the basis of knowledge and of the effect it would have of lifting the total ban. We're going to have a strict and knowledge-based environmental legislation, but for the Center Party, it's also about having a law that's not a symbol law. For this reason, the prohibition on off-highway and wetland areas should be lifted if new knowledge substantiates this, such as: Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association claims. We are pleased that the Ministry of the Environment will gather more knowledge about the effects of the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting areas on health and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1901	There have been several good posts with much of the same message. What has been important for the Christian People's Party in the matter is that we are clear that we recognise that there is a risk of contamination in and at wetlands. At the same time, we need to weigh other considerations, in terms of land and open seas, against the interests of human hunting. It is obvious, as many have been involved, that there will be several damage shootings using the lead-haul option. There are simply not enough alternatives to lead hail as of today. This debate on the use of lead hail in hunting is a well-known debate, and – as the representative Lødemel was in it – we have now had the ban for quite a long time. Then we have to look at how the ban has worked. In our view, it has not worked optimally and as intended. That's why we're clear that as long as you don't have enough ammunition to get humane hunting, we think you can lift the ban on land and open seas. But in the comment with the Right – and, to some extent, the Advance Party – we clearly write that it means ‘to good alternatives are in place’. If there is a good enough alternative to lead hail, it is also not necessary to use lead. That is at least our position. It is important to make it clear that the proposal put forward here can help to ensure, as the representative Sande was also involved, more legitimacy attached to the law, because then it is clear that there is no prohibition on using lead, namely on shooting tracks, while lead hail can be used over solid land and over open sea. I don't have to drag the argument any further than to refer to the other posts that have been held. I am pleased that the Council of State is clear that he wants to gain more knowledge, and that the Committee too clearly states that we want more knowledge about the environmental and health effects of leadhagl. It is important to weigh the considerations against each other, and as of today, we believe that we have concluded and made a good compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1914	In the previous debate, you wouldn't be allowed to think anything if you weren't from North Norway. In this debate, I will begin by informing you that I have a hunting trial, I am hunting, I have shot both with and without lead, before and after the ban. My starting point is that there is no professional discussion about wetlands. There's a lot of consensus, even professionally, that there we can't use lead hail. There's no point in using lead hail on the shooting range. Firstly, there is too much accumulation, but there is no basis for doing so either, given that the damage to target shields is a slightly limited danger area. I think some arguments speak for lifting the ban. One of them concerns damage shooting, which we know is going to be more of a loss of the ammunition we are offering today. The other thing that no one has mentioned, but as I think is quite important, is about hunting culture and respect for the law. Much has been done in Norway for the last 30–40 years to change Norwegian hunting culture, for example. the relationship of elk to alcohol and hunting. I've grown up in areas where there was a lot of hunting. I've been tested to lead to attitudes toward hunting and weapons. Not many years have passed since wet shoots were part of the start of the harvest hunt. Now it's much less common. We still have a few cases of wetshots, but that's a lot fewer than before. It's not like Øystein Sunde's song about hunting is played the same time, because there's not so many who recognize themselves in that song. Hunting culture has changed dramatically in Norway — for the better, in many, many areas. But it's still a small pocket that's about not bowing to the ban you don't understand why. One of the pockets that I think undermines the trust in Norwegian hunting law is the ban on lead. I think most hunters understand the ban when it comes to wetlands, sail if not everyone in the Progress Party understands it, but there are a lot of hunters who don't understand why the ban applies otherwise. Then you get an undermining of the law that we adopt here, and for the respect you have to have for hunting law. That's what I think is actually quite important. I think it's important that our law relates to a logic that people who go out in the field understand. I am willing to accept that a proper evaluation is to be carried out, and that the areas of competence in hunting that we actually have are included. The hunting organisations we have in Norway are quite responsible and proper, so they are likely to have a proper discussion with them. I hope the Minister for the Environment will open that up. Today, when we vote for what the government has presented, it is because we want to see such an evaluation. But I think it's important that we have a hunting law that is related to the logic that people who go in the field follow. Obviously, as the law is today, not everyone understands the good reasons. Then the challenge for the minister is to produce the good reasons, otherwise we will remove the ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1934	I don't have a hunting test, but I'm going to keep my post anyway. The representatives of Skumsvoll, Nesvik, Grimstad, Bredvold, Amundsen and Treldal have proposed to lift the ban on lead hail. The ban was introduced in its time to protect especially birds and other wildlife from one of the most serious environmental contaminants we know. Lead has many serious effects on both humans and animals exposed, e.g. it may result in reduced intellectual development of children. For animals and plants lead may be toxic even in small quantities. Lead does not break down into nature and accumulates in the food chains. Lead is also an environmental substance that is transported far from the emission source. To put it in an international perspective lead still leads to very great damage to man and nature. Even if lead emissions in Norway are severely reduced, and the most dangerous sources, such as the United Kingdom, have been found to be petrol, is stopped, we still have an international responsibility to reduce emissions as much as possible. Due to the serious properties of lead, the substance is part of the ambitious national target of stopping the use and release of environmental pollutants by 2020. We are therefore actively working to regulate and limit the use and release of lead both nationally and internationally. The ban on lead hail is an important part of national efforts to spread lead. Before the total ban came into force, lead from lead hail amounted to about 70 pst. by collecting lead emissions from known sources on land in Norway. After lead hail was illegal, such ammunition is released almost away. I think that's good professional grounds for a total ban. It will come out, among others. in the 2001 impact assessment underpinning the ban. Because of the strong toxic effects of lead lead, lead hail poses a significant risk to animals and birds that get it. Birds can get lead hail by taking lead hail instead of pebbles into the crow, where it is lying and poisoning the bird. It is well documented that lead hail can pose a problem in wetlands, where the use may lead to lead poisoning of different birds. Before the total ban on lead hail came into force in 2005, we had a limited ban. The aim was to protect endangered avian species by prohibiting the use of lead hail for the type of hunting that dominated wetlands. However, several findings suggested that the restriction was not sufficient to protect the species of birds from lead poisoning, for example. studies showed that the number of dead duck birds had shown no clear decline after the imposition of the prohibition. The introduction of the total ban also assesses that the use of lead hail poses an environmental problem even outside wetlands, e.g. lead hail has been detected in yellow balls for Norwegian birds of prey. Leadhagl may pose a problem for the preservation of threatened Norwegian predatory birds as royal eagles. In the same way as wetland birds, terrestrial birds can bring in lead hail instead of pebbles in the crow. I have also noticed a study from Greenland that shows that the lead content of the bird's shoes with lead hail, was unexpectedly high, and that lead hail so can be a source of lead in the diet. That's what I thought was disturbing. It is important to stress that today there are several good alternatives to non-toxic lead hail. Several studies have also shown that there is no statistically safe difference in mortality between lead hail and alternatives. Based on the professional arguments I've been through, I don't think it's right to change the ban on lead hail now. I'm very concerned that lead should not be released into nature in a way that can create problems for nature and man. Of course, if new knowledge of meaning was to be found for the prohibition, I will consider it carefully. I notice that several questions are raised by the fact that the ban also applies outside wetlands and shooting paths. I would therefore like to ensure that additional knowledge about the effects of the ban on lead hail outside the areas is obtained. In this work, we will be in contact with the Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Association, which I also regard as a proper and proper organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1955	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1958	I'm also hunting, but I use rougher calibre than hail, but it's also lead, so it's the same challenge there. Otherwise, it's nice to say that there are a lot of people in this room who are prepared to lift the ban on lead on solid land and above sea level. It's just that we have to wait for the Council of State to take its decisions. The alternatives to lead today are tin, zinc, steel, bismuth and tungsten. There are also environmental consequences of these hail types, so the question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State give an assessment of how these types of halam munitions work on nature, as it is not prepared to lift the ban on the use of lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1967	I may not be able to give a proper assessment of it on the stand, but I believe that a little of the basis for looking closer to it is to consider the questions that have been raised in the debate here, among other things. alternative. For example, I notice myself. the discussion of mortality. As far as I know, at least many of the study students that are done show no statistically sure or significant difference in that, but it's among the things that it's useful to go deeper into. Otherwise, I would like to say that it is worth bearing in mind that today's news has brought a big deal that has got a little attention, on the very goal of removing hazardous pollutants in Norway by 2020. Lead is one of the pollutants that we have committed ourselves to removing, and as I said in my post: 70 pst. of lead spills before the prohibition was linked to hunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1974	I thank you for your answer. I also record that the Council of State commends the work of the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen and that they are an important body in this regard, I fully support them. We had a case in the hall here some time ago that was related to motor travel in the field. There, the state council and the ministry were to listen to a scheme to change the law on motor travel in the outland. We haven't seen anything about it yet. Now it's also about acquiring new knowledge. Perhaps the Council of State can tell when the new knowledge of lead hail is presented and one might get a new case of lead hail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1985	Now I think we're going to finish dealing with this matter first, and then we're going to look closer to the new knowledge. I have a dialogue with the Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Association on this, and then we'll get back to it at a later time when it's natural to look at it. When it comes to motor travel, they will send questions to the audience in a relatively short time, as previously said here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1992	I have been hunting for over 30 years myself and started my hunting career using lead. What we're seeing now, after you've gone over to bismuth and steel, is that there's an extremely much more damage shooting. You can see that where you first fell the animal, you can't fall it now. It comes from the fact that the lead is so heavy, and then you get a higher output speed that makes it a more killing shot. It gives a better killing of game, which we're all looking for. Now we see that we get more and more damage shooting, and we get animal diseases. It's also proven that steel makes that when you hit the animals and just get some steel hail into them, they suffer from inflammation for a long time. So my question to the Council of State is, does not the animal suffering mean anything to the government when you now say no to lifting the ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e1997	Yes, it does. There is an important question that naturally belongs to this assessment. But as I have said, the studies I know do not show a statistically safe difference in mortality between lead and alternatives. But I want to say that it's one of the areas where it's natural to go in a little bit, because it's at the center of the discussion -- whether there's a difference that should be stressed, or whether he's not statistically sure, so there's no need to focus on it. It's among the themes it's natural to look at when we're going to get more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2002	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2007	I want to start with what I started with in the line change – go back to what concerns the damage-shooting and ricocheting problem. I myself have been hunting where a friend of mine used steel hail inside a mountain area and was hit by a ricochet. It was just luck that he raised his eyes. Several people see more accidents happening because of ricochets than before. There is also something that should be included in this debate. In Sweden, it was first assessed that there was a total ban. But then the large evaluation was carried out, among other things. what goes on animal welfare, on killing, on ricochets and on the cost of shooting – not to mention that 90 pst. by all hunters have weapons that are designed for lead hail and not for steel hail, which means that you are at risk of running. There is more running blast now than before because you use steel hail, for which the weapons are actually not calculated. So here's a problem that goes on the safety of the hunters. Lead is well suited as a shot material. It's heavy and soft, and it can be used in almost every gardener – in all kinds of weapons, I'd say. It can't be steel and anything else. It is an important condition for human hunting that hunters use weapons and ammunition that are suitable for the type of hunting they are going to do. It is also important that hunters try to find new types of ammunition that are suitable for the species on which they are to be used. Freedom of choice in the use of the most appropriate types of shots will be important. It's proven that lead hail gives you a better and a more humane killing process. So you say that lead will give you some spread. Then I'd like to say to the Council of State, I'm sorry, but I'm going to go hunting the mountain. I can walk two to three miles in a day and shoot four to ten shots. You might go 5-6 kilometers every time you shoot a shot to the right and a shot to the left. You will never have any problems with the lead being harmful, because such amounts are not to be seen. This has also been concluded by the Swedes. Therefore, the use of lead hail should not be prohibited. I believe that there are so many areas where this problem will not be addressed. At least I would have thought I would have been the minister, who is out to do something with the lead, is: we have a huge problem in Norway today. For 20–30 years – and from 1950 onward – all the power grids have been in the spotlight. It is appropriate to require that all cables be picked up, because there are lead problems. The only thing I can promise the Great, is that in a change of government, both the Christian People's Party, the Right and we will lift the ban. So we're going to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2022	Finally, I have to say that what the Progress Party will do at a government change is very unclear to me. I have to remind you of what is the representative proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to abolish the prohibition on the use of lead hail for hunting.’ That is the proposal. So it kind of comes out here that everyone is saying that this case is about having a ban on the use of lead hail when hunting on land and over open water. No, the Progress Party has said in this regard that their primary position is precisely what they have proposed: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to abolish the prohibition on the use of lead hail for hunting.’ Thus, even Norway’s Hunter and Fisher Leagues disagree, for they say quite clearly that after five years it is understood that one should have a clear ban on the use of lead hail on the shooting path and on wetlands. Here's the good documentation. What they're saying is that it's hard to understand to have this forbidden on land and over open water – they think there's not enough evidence here. My impression here is that the Advance Party will try to ride more horses, that they will now present it as some with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. They may also be, because they have the same comments and are together on a proposal. But the fact is that the Progress Party has said that they have their primary position, namely the total lifting of the prohibition against the use of lead hail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2042	I take the floor just to answer the case rapporteur. That's exactly what it says. We want the Stortinget to ask ‘the government to propose a ban on the use of lead hail for hunting’. Secondly, we ask that ‘the government make proposals to abolish the ban on the use of lead hail in land and open sea hunting’. We see that we can't get through with the first proposal, because we're alone about it. Then it is said that Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association does not want this. It is – with all due respect – not right. Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association says that they want what we're in favour of, but it's probably easier to get a majority for the secondary proposal. That's why we're going for the secondary. We know that our primary proposal is going to be downgraded – and it is better to get it a little better than it is today. And rather, in the government, we're going to try to do the job we're going to do – to get the others to go in for our vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2051	I take the word because it should be right. We've had a meeting with Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federation, and I just have to refer from what they put forward as their vision: ‘Five years after the introduction of a total ban, there is still little understanding among hunters of the ban. This is due to a lack of professional evidence of the real hazard associated with the use of lead hail on land and over open water.» They also say: ‘On the other hand, there is a strong understanding of the prohibition on the use of lead hail on the shooting paths and in wetlands, where the evidence of the adverse effects has been good. So we see a clear link between understanding and the professional basis." This seemed clear to me: the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishermen's Association is opposed to using lead hail on the shooting tracks and on wetlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2066	The representative Torgeir Tjäldal has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2069	It is possible that this has been said in some meetings, but we have also had meetings where we have been told what I am saying now. If you go into Facebook, you see that there are three or four sides to this, and there are over 100,000 members. If you read through this and see what's said there, I can at least tell you that the hunters want one thing: they want a total ban, but – as they say – the secondary must be getting it better than it is now. All we can do is try to do this properly – get a total ban. That's the best part. But if we don't win with the best now, we get to accept the secondary. Then we have to take the fight – the Advance Party is not going to give up this fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2076	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2090	This issue concerns the implementation of the EU Environmental Responsibility Directive, which was incorporated into the EEA Agreement in 2009. For some EU countries, this Directive has marked significant legislative changes, but Norway has already legislated for the polluter-pays principle. For us, it has meant only minor changes in the law. It is a unanimous committee that adopts these legislative changes. The Environmental Responsibility Directive introduces a general rule on objective liability as an important element of the polluter-pays principle. This is in line with national provisions and does not require any changes in the pollution law with regard to mandatory measures. The Committee stresses in its comments – and it is in line with the response of the Minister for the Environment to questions from the Committee – that there is no change in the obligation of the polluter to implement measures, even if pollution is permitted. Otherwise, the government proposes an extension of the right to apply and the right to apply in cases where the administration has failed to impose or implement measures, and there is also an agreed overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2101	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2115	In the proposition there is no proposal for a change in the current right. The government decided for several reasons to join the Directorate for Nature Management and the Directorate for Climate and Pollution of a new Directorate called the Environment Directorate. The basis for this aggregation is briefly referred to in the proposition. This implies a need for a change of name to make the Environment Directorate hotter in the field of outdoor law and other laws. There is only one proposal for the creation of name usage, which the Committee is consulted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2134	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2143	The proposal provides for a change to the small boat law which would remove the general ban on the use of water-scooter. At the same time, the Ministry proposes the possibility to lay down rules on the use of water-scooter. The Committee supports the lifting of the ban and the multiplicity of the Committee also supports the development of specific regulations for the use of watercraft. The Progress Party and the Right have an own proposal to equalise water scooters with other small boats. There are several reasons why the current legislation should be amended. ESA has indicated that the legislation does not comply with the EEA Agreement. The regulatory framework was amended in 2012, but ESA believes that these regulations do not comply with the EEA Agreement on the free movement of goods either. In the proposition, the Ministry writes that they believe the Norwegian legislation is within the limits of Norway's high level of protection of the environment and security within EEA law, but that the legislation is complicated, and that it is a challenge for the municipality to provide regulations sufficiently quickly. I think today's system seems improperly complicated. Municipalities may make exceptions to the prohibition, provided that environmental or safety concerns are not otherwise addressed, but the municipalities cannot open up water-scooter running in areas that are specified in an annex to the Code. Furthermore, the rules prohibit municipalities from opening water scooters in specified types of areas where the use of water scooters would cause significant damage or environmental and safety disadvantages. Outside these areas, municipalities have an obligation to open a water-scooter run if requested. It is now suggested, as mentioned, that the general ban will be lifted and that regulations will allow the introduction of forbidden zones around the country. It's a setup, among other things. Denmark has introduced. This seems to be a regulation that takes care of the need to protect the environment and security while ensuring that the rules are in conformity with EEA law. Nearby areas are often used intensively for boating, bathing and other outdoor activities, and there are many cabins and dwellings. Of course, there is a relevant question whether watercraft are different from small boats. It is enough that the water-scooter can be experienced differently and more painfully because of the way they are run. The proposition has done some good for the round of hearings on the bill and also for the recordings that have come to the draft new regulations. It is undoubtedly a challenge to identify the size of the forbidden area, the rules of transport running through the area, the maps of the forbidden areas and not least the availability of these maps. In the hearing on the legislative changes, it has come up with useful input that the Ministry has taken into account in the preparation of the draft regulation. The Committee agrees that, on the basis of an overall assessment, it is appropriate to amend the legislation. The Committee emphasises that there is still a high level of protection of the environment and security, a desire for simpler legislation for users and authorities and greater certainty that legislation is in conformity with EEA law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2158	I often allow myself to marvel at the will and desire to rule in detail, and the matter of using the water-scooter is such a matter. Prohibiting various vehicles or craft seems to attract the most eager attention to detail management, preferably in the form of prohibition. As an example, the ban on Segway, these electric two-wheelers, can be mentioned. So it's OK with a two-wheel front, a lead and a rear, but not if the wheels are placed on the side of the driver. In fact, the use of water scooters should be treated on the same foot with small boats and assessed on the same foot with these vessels. You can ask yourself if it's the name'scooter' that triggers the ban mafia. It is well known that snowmobiles have suffered a fate that has been unsolved for years. So to the text of the proposal: ‘The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the use of ships referred to in the first subparagraph, including provision that, for environmental or safety reasons, the use of such vessels is not permitted at a specified distance from land...’ So here's a law that makes it difficult or impossible to use water scooters by requiring a distance from the country, which in practice will act as a ban. We are strongly opposed to this in the Progress Party. I also point out that several hearing authorities, such as the Arendal port administration, consider it to be of little use to regulate specifically a particular type of craft, and recommend that national rules which regulate use on a general basis be developed, i.e. decisions on speed and noise, such as those applicable to standard boating. The fleet magazine believes that the water-scooters that are most useful today differ significantly from so-called jet skis, which were widespread at the time the general water-scooter ban was established. Modern water-scooting noises are small, they have little emissions, and the craft also have a utility function. It is also shown that the water scooters create little waves. In other words, there is no compelling reason for this ban in practice in Prop. 82 L for 2012–2013 on the use of sharps scooters. I hereby submit my proposal to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2172	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2175	The background to this case is that ESA has mentioned that the existing law prohibits the use of water-scooter and so on. smaller motor-powered vessels contravene the EEA Agreement because it constitutes an illegal restriction on imports. From the Right's side, we think there's no reason to dissimilar water scooters in relation to other motorised little boats. We can understand that ESA finds this discriminatory and thinks it constitutes an illegal import barrier. Therefore, the Right also voted against the prohibition against water-scooter when it was introduced in 2000. Right is pleased that the general ban on the use of water scooters is lifted, but we disagree that there is a need for a separate regulation on the use of water scooters. Usemja, in this case, is mostly about an instrument. When it concerns the intention both with the prohibition and with the secrecy of the regulation, as the government is now proposing, we agree on a lot of it. The right is that we still have a high level of protection of the environment and security in the Norwegian archipelago and on our lakes. There is no doubt that unreasonably using water scooters can create both dangerous situations and noise pollution. That is why we also need to have a regulatory framework that is based on undesirable behaviour. In the opinion of the Right, the use of watercraft does not differ from other similar uses of motorised vessels. The use of small boats with large outboard engines creates equally dangerous situations, and the noise associated with small boats can be as bad – if not worse – as noise from a water scooter. Right, therefore, believes that there should be a common regulation for all types of motorized craft, whether it be boats or water scooters, which protects us when we travel on the sea or baths, and which makes us avoid unnecessary noise. Municipalities should be allowed to limit the movement of motorised vessels, e.g.: near bathing areas where both small boats and water scooters may be at risk of bathing. But we don't need a home for the regulation of the water-scooter. Vass scooters can be used for playing, playing and playing at sea. But unwitting use of water scooters can also lead to dangerous situations both for the user and other road users at sea, as well as bathing, and it can cause annoying noise to others who are in the arsonary. That's the crazy use we have to switch on. I have a feeling that the ban on water scooters is part of a general scepticism from well-adult legislators against new forms of activity that are particularly popular among young people. For a while back, there was a reference in this room to the unnecessary restrictions that we have when it comes to new activities in the mountains, like this. Kitting. At that time, the Minister of the Environment promised that the Ministry would review the legislation. It may have been done, but the ban on these activities is still maintained. We also see it in my own home country, Sogn and Fjordane, that an old-fashioned destination for motor travel in the outfield stops an exciting test project using a belt car to transport tourists to the mountain in Balestrand. We also ban the use of Segway, although it has become an increasingly popular activity in other countries, and something we can enjoy when we are tourists in other European cities. The ban on water scooters, and the proposal now on a separate legal basis to be able to still ban water scooters, merge into an image where new and modern activities are considered dangerous. Yes, if the same hold had been in force in the past, it might have been an own ban on the use of motorcycles in road traffic laws as well. In order to ensure that we can all enjoy life in the archipelago and on our lakes in peace and quiet and without risk due to the unwise running of motorized craft, there is a need for strict legislation. But there is a behavior to regulate - not the type of craft. Therefore, the Right proposal to ask the government to bring about changes in the small boat law, which means that the water scooters are handled on a line with other small boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2211	In 2000, therefore, the size decided to ban the use of personal watercraft and similar vessels, with the aim of protecting the public along the coast for noise and pollution, as well as avoiding damage to animal and plant life. In retrospect, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, stated that this constituted an illegal restriction on imports. The Ministry of the Environment has then chosen to change the ban on personal watercraft, in order to regulate their use. But the purpose – and that is important! – is the same as in 2000, namely to protect the public against noise and pollution. I've had meetings with the watercraft enthusiasts, and I'm aware that there have been changes in terms of personal watercraft in recent years, both in terms of noise and pollution, but also in terms of utility. Some of the reasons for the ban in 2000 were that personal watercraft had no useful purpose. They were really just suitable for noisy recreation rides that we would prefer to avoid completely close along the coast, along the beaches, as the rules will now apply. In this way, it can be argued as the Right Party and the Advance Party argue that personal watercraft should be treated in line with other small boats. It would, in my opinion, mean that we might need a whole new review of the rules for the use of small boats with similar noise, speed and pollution. The fact that there are RIBs or other boats that are fighting and going as fast as personal watercraft is therefore not an argument to allow personal watercraft. In that case, it must be an argument for creating restrictions for other boats as well, because we don't want any more noise or pollution. Nor do I see the need to introduce new vessels that will cause such noise and pollution. Then I would like to point out that the amendment of the law refers to personal watercraft and similar smaller vessels. The classification of vessels subject to the new regulations shall be carried out by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs. Until now the definition has been that if you're inside it, it's a boat. If you're sitting on top of it, it's a scooter. Those definitions are likely to slip into each other, and I believe that the Maritime Directorate has a challenging job, and I do not think that politicians should go into the technical specifications, but stick to what was the purpose of the amendment in 2000, namely to protect the public from noise and pollution – an objective that has been overwhelmingly supported in the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2222	I'll be brief. The party supports the changes proposed by the government today. As the case-law says, Rudihagen may be the subject of a debate on the distinction between the watercraft and the recreational boat, and the Center Party agrees that it may be useful to have a divorce. For just like Rudihagen said, this is going to be different from how these vessels are run. And so in some parts of the country, one will define it as a recreational boat, perhaps to a much greater extent useful than recreational, while the water-scooter will mainly be associated with recreational execution. And then I have to say that for the Center Party, this is the example of an area where we think the best solutions would be to design the municipality through the plan, and where one could take care that noise and pollution are different from each other in the country. It would give room for legislation that had legitimacy, and could then create necessary and good debates locally based on what was local love and local needs. I notice that the Progress Party refers to the desire for regulation, and then I thought it was a paradox that the reason we have this matter in the Chamber today is the EEA agreement for which the Progress Party ensures a number of figures, and which in even one area turns out to intervene in the everyday life of Norwegian citizens in a detailed way. Although in this case it's about lifting a ban, it's an example of how this system intervenes in everyday life and Norwegian politics in an area where we might not have foreseen that it would have anything to mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2231	The proposition applies to proposals to amend small boat laws so that the use of water-snipers is allowed outside defined coastline-side belts. Forbidden belts and more detailed regulation will be laid down in regulations before summer. Proposal for a regulation has been sent to your attention. A belt of 400 m from land by sea and 500 m from land by fresh water is proposed. It is suggested to run at low speed through the prohibitive belt to get to open areas. Driving is also not allowed in or near protection area, and there will still be boat traffic in those belts. Causes for water snipers to be specifically regulated and proposed specifically regulated, indebtedness etc. the nature of the environment, safety and noise. Most water scutterers have features that require specific regulation. They have fast acceleration and high peak speed and can run at high speed even in shallow waters. Environmental concerns are also important. Beach proximity is important to much animal and bird life, and running high-speed water bulkheads in such areas may have a special potential for damage. Then it's the concern of security. Speed and manoeuvrability characteristics may give rise to greater risk of accidents than most ordinary boats. Occurrence statistics from other countries where water cuts are widespread indicate a higher risk of accidents. Statistics from the United States from 2011, for example, indicate that water snipers account for approx. 19 pst. by all clocks, even if they are only approx. 10 pst. of the craft. So that's the question of noise. Beaches are widely used for outdoor activities. Water-shooting noise is often experienced as more annoying than ordinary boat noise. It's mainly because of the way water-snipers are often run, with high speed, high acceleration, tight turns and jumps. I think it's good that we now have an established code in place, and I'm glad that there is support for it in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2246	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2249	I have to say that I wonder a little bit about the arguments that come on the table here in view of the description of sharp shots. The state council's own description of water bulkheads is quite similar to what can be found in a description of a small boat with a large outboard engine — rapid acceleration and in all ways similar to that of a water bulkhead. It's also so that this is a youth activity, and we see in a lot of ways what the representative Lødemel was into, activities that young people like to attend, and in the interest of young people who have every reason to get out and tear themselves loose from both games and PCs, which activate themselves in this way. So we hear representatives from the government saying that there's not so much need to regulate except that that's the way it's run that's the problem. There may not be an overall assessment that suggests that it is the way it is run, which leads to a conclusion like a do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2255	I'm a hot fan of youth activities -- they're outdoors, and games and PCs aren't that stupid either. It's not that, I think we're a little bit on a blank track if we think that's what this is all about. It is an assessment of the very different conditions I went through – the environment, noise, outdoors, security and nature and nature – that have done so. So I just have to base the debate on what we are doing, is that today we have a ban, and after a process we are now liberalizing it and opening up to far more extensive use of water cuts in Norway, but with quite strict regulations like that. looks like our neighboring country, Denmark, has. That's where we're actually going.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2260	This is a similar thing that we've had before here in the Chamber: it's the restriction party SV that stands out with the rest of the government. We see here a distrust of most people in terms of how they can use a vessel as a sharp-shooter. We also see a distrust that the municipalities should be able to regulate this within the wishes and intentions of each municipality. My question to the Council of State is: why does the Council of State not believe that the municipalities themselves are able to carry out the assessments that the Council of State here wants to define by means of regulations? Why does the Council of State not believe that the municipalities themselves are able to make these assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2267	I think it makes sense to have a common code. Now we get a much more liberal code than what we've had. We have had a general ban, now we are opening up to extensive running, but within frameworks that take account of the environment, outdoors and other conditions. I think it's easier to practice a code that's similar all around Norway than one that varies. That's why I think it's a reasonable and sensible arrangement that we're now adding up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2272	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2277	Today’s debate is about politicians, departments and officials at all levels having the right to control the details of everything that can be described as leisure jobs, perhaps even leisure jobs that many people in our country greatly appreciate. Today, when we are discussing the use of watercraft, it is very easy to bring forward another repetition that is dealt with annually in Stortinget, namely the right of local politicians to decide for themselves who will drive and where to run with snowmobiles on snow. This right cannot be passed on by the current government to the local politicians. What's a personal watercraft? Fantasy need not be specially developed to see that this is a power-driven equipment that, for all confusion, is similar to small boats. The watercraft alarms a good deal, but it also does many other tools and equipment that I can get on the road. What about small boats with suspension engines? These also fight a lot and may well be irritating to someone who wants silence. Should or should the government also prohibit all recreational trips by small boats? To get to my cabin, which is legally built within the 100-metre limit of the Beach Plan Act, I have to use my 12-foot Pioneer with a suspension motor. This engine is fighting a lot, and I could come to the cabin within an hour without using the boat. Shouldn't I also be denied this luxury equipment because of the alarm? Fortunately, small and large boats with suspension engines have been in use for as long as this use will continue in the future. Watercraft are fighting, but it also does chainsaws and windmills. Engine saws can be stopped and moved, but what about the windmills? Norway has approx. 28 000 km of shoreline. Here it should be possible to cultivate both boat and watermobile life for leisure and professional purposes, without damaging others. Changes in the law on small boats are a step in the right direction, and the government should be commended for this. The concern is that the government has nevertheless found it necessary to impose certain restrictions in Section 40. It is difficult for the Progress Party to see the need to impose these restrictions. The progress party, together with the Right, has proposed changes, so that all scooter rides are similar to boating. The whole proposal of the government is similar to a bureaucratic proposal that is hard to understand for non-bureaucratics.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2296	Before the representative, Skumsvoll, mentioned the snowmobile debate, I also sat down and thought about it. For the strongest argument in the snowmobile debate is when people from the north say, in the Oslo soil, you can drive as you want with little boats, while we're not going to run snowmobiles. The most important thing for the Right and Advance Party is to make sure that one is now entitled to contaminate and quarrel even more with the boat in e.g. The osloford area. I react to the notion of freedom being used here, as if freedom is, by and large, always about being allowed to fight and drive quickly, while the reality is that the majority of people, the public, want peace and quiet and less trouble along the coast – no more. That is why we have had a great deal of support for this change, which does not prohibit personal watercraft, but regulates their use. Here's what we're talking about for the freedom of the many, while the Right Party and the Advance Party are talking about the freedom of the few to be able to drive fast and plague others for their recreational purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2307	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2322	It is tempting to comment on the previous debate, where it could seem that there was a disagreement about the lifting of the ban on personal watercraft – but that is not the case. There is a broad consensus in this room. I'll talk about other types of vessel – something bigger. This concerns the consent to the accession of the International Hong Kong Convention for the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships, to which a Joint Committee subscribes, and recommends ratification by the Stortinget. This is important because Norway today is the world’s fifth largest shipping nation, measured in value. That is why we have a particular responsibility for a well-functioning regulatory framework, which contributes to stricter environmental requirements and improved working conditions in ship recycling. This is not least important because we know that a greater share of the fleet will be scrapped in the next few years, as a result of ever-new environmental and safety requirements from, among others. IMO, EU and USA. This trend further updates the Hong Kong Convention. There is an overall committee which supports this Convention, and there is also an overall committee which notes that it is particularly important that it has taken four years for the Government to bring this Convention to the Grand Duchy. The Convention was negotiated on 15 May 2009 and the government writes in its proposal that it is: «desirable for Norway to contribute to the entry into force of the Convention by entering into force as soon as possible». Nevertheless, it has taken four years before the proposition found the way to Stortinget. The Committee therefore agrees that it is now important that Norway contributes to the ratification of this Convention by as many countries as possible so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. It will require 15 countries, which together represent 40 pst. of the gross tonnage of the world’s merchant fleet and 3 pst. of the recycling capacity, ratifying the Convention for its entry into force. Unfortunately, there is a long way to go, and therefore there is a responsibility in Norway to help as many countries as possible do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2337	The size has today been requested to consent to the accession of the International Hong Kong Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships, of 15 May 2009. Norway has already proposed, as the first country in the world, a binding framework under the IMO for ship recycling in 1999. The background was the major challenges of ship recycling for both the external environment and the working environment. Ship recycling, as is happening in major ship recycling nations such as India, China, Bangladesh and Pakistan, is characterised by a high risk of very serious accidents at work and a devastating impact on the marine and coastal environment in the area around the facility. The aim of the Convention is to prevent, reduce and, as far as practicable, eliminate accidents at work and unwanted effects on health and the environment, as a result of construction. The Convention contains binding requirements for ships and ship recycling workshops, and environmental requirements are set throughout the life cycle of the ship, including requirements for the workshops. The Convention requires that a list of hazardous substances contained in material and material components on board ships be drawn up so that they can be handled defencefully when the ship is later to be recovered. Some hazardous substances will also be banned for use in ships. It concerns the re-installation of materials containing asbestos, ozone-reducing substances and the re-installation of materials containing polychlorinated bifinyl. Ships shall be capable of being raised by workshops which comply with the Convention and which have developed a plan of how their work is to be carried out in order to ensure safe and environmentally sound recovery. The Convention sets out the requirements for the authorisation of shipyards with registered offices, including: rules on the prevention of damage to man and the environment, the safe and environmentally sound management of hazardous substances, training, emergency preparedness and response, reporting, etc. The Convention will be of primary importance internationally, as ship recycling operations in Norway are limited. Several of the substances that will be banned, such as asbestos and ozone-reducing substances, are already banned in Norway. Accession to the Convention does not require legal amendment. Ship recycling requirements are already covered by permits granted under the Pollution Act, while the Labour Environment Act covers the requirements of the Convention relating to the supervision of the working environment. The Convention’s requirements for ships which are not already covered by national legislation, which require the development of a list of hazardous substances on board ships and where they exist, may be implemented under the regulations of the Ship Safety Act of 16 February 2007. Due to annual expenditure of a certain size, the accession to the Convention requires the consent of the Grand Duchy, under the second paragraph of Grundlova, paragraph 26. Requirements and supervision of ship recycling operations will require 15 weekly works for the Directorate of Climate and Pollution. The Maritime Directorate will need 1-2 new annual works to verify that new and existing ships produce a table of contents of hazardous material on board ships, the handling of dispensation applications and the handling of complaints. Expenditure on implementation of the Convention will be covered within the existing budgetary framework of the Ministry of the Environment. For the Norwegian industry, the accession of the Convention will primarily involve the costs of the reiar and the operator, due to the preparation and maintenance of a list of dangerous ships. So I'd like to add that it can be an internationally important convention, but it's a long way to go before he's finally ratified. It's true, as was said here, 15 countries have to add up to 40 pst. of the gross tonnage. Norway is first, or among the first countries, but it is important that we work as much as possible to ensure that it is respected internationally, even until ratification, and to encourage other countries to ratify the agreement as quickly as possible, so that it can enter into force fully.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2363	So there is a joint committee that has criticised the fact that it has taken four years for this convention to be negotiated in 2009, until the government has sent a proposition to the Stortinget. When the government itself writes in the proposition that it is important that the Convention be ratified as quickly as possible, why has it taken four years for the government to draw up a six-page proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2370	I cannot answer for why it has taken four years. But as far as I know, we're still the first country to actually ratify, so the first thing we want to do in the future is to help it get in place quickly and show that one country is going to lead. There are a number of other countries that are also currently in the process — about at the same time as us. But I don't have an overview of the full-time work in those years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2379	We agree on the importance of this Convention, and we agree on the importance of Norway as a driving force for setting new standards and environmental requirements, and not least labour standards for ship recycling, mainly in Bangladesh and other developing countries. But if Norway is concerned that this is important, which I hope we are – we have been an instigator in the negotiations, so that indicates that we mean it – why haven't we set a good example then, and ratified this convention a long time ago? There's no reason to wait four years to do just that. Then we could also take a leading role internationally by encouraging and taking the lead as a good example, and making sure that several other countries come after. Because it's true, as the Council of State says, that we're among the first to do this -- unfortunately -- when we know how much tonnage is going to be scrapped in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2386	As I said, I don't know why it's taken four years to implement it in Norway. But I want to at all, what should I call it, friendship might ask the representative Astrup if it really is what has his attention today, after Norway first proposed it as the first country in 1999 and then ratifys it as the first country – or as one of the first countries, there are some other countries that are in the same process now – second, long since it itself began to comply, so that it will hardly matter for scrapping here in the country, and third, an industry that is very advanced, and that has taken steps to actually comply with the agreement, even if it is not a ratified agreement internationally. I would like to come back again to discuss what happened over the years, but the picture is that since 1999, Norway has been a leader here internationally, is only now out and will continue to be so, because we depend on having 14 other countries to ratify the agreement before he actually applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2393	Government predecessors have written a book called 'Politics Is Too Wild'. I might say that politics is implementing. It is very good that Norway has gone ahead and helped to negotiate a convention, and that we have taken initiatives. At the same time, it must be important – the Council of States must agree – that we show how important this Convention is by ratifying it quickly. The fact that the government has spent four years shows that it may not be so important for the government. What is the signal sent to other countries that consider ratifying this Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2400	On the contrary, we are ratifying the first country in the world, and we proposed it in 1999 as the first country in the world. We've driven it internationally throughout that period. We continue to work with other countries, and we have challenged and been given our own nourishment to follow the requirements internationally. It is precisely implementing important international rules. So the challenge is that in Norway, this is not going to be better until we have all the terms intact. What we can do most is, point 1: to get other countries to ratify and point 2: to get the industry to follow what's in the Convention, even if it's not ratified. It's in the day-to-day work it's important to have an executive, because that's actually what gives us results. I thought – to be quite honest – that the Right should try to enjoy it more, after 14 years of working to get the convention in place now leads to ratification, and together with us work to get 14 other countries with us, so that he can take on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2409	As I have said several times, it is commendable that Norway has taken an international initiative, that we have been an instigator in the negotiations to put in place better rules for both the environment and safety in terms of ship recycling. There's no doubt about it. The aim of this exchange is not that we should agree on everything, but in fact that we should shed light on the things we do not agree on. If there is something the industry itself has requested, it is that the Storting could actually go ahead and ratify this agreement much earlier. The shipping association has raised this matter several times with the department and asked why the matter has not come to Stortinget. Yet it has taken four years. My simple question is why it's taken four years. I notice that the Council of State has not yet been able to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2417	My simple answer I gave in the first answer, that I don't have the answer here and now. But I can come back with that. I have noticed that the representative has used four lines to repeat a question where he got the answer that I did not have the answer over the table on the first question. It suggests a completely different need than getting attention to international shipping and the dismantling of ships; that he primarily needs to repeat that he thinks it should have come something earlier, and that he is not now busy enjoying what we've got, or, more importantly, discussing how to get 14 other countries into it, and how to get international shipping industry to actually comply with the convention before he is put into action. That's how many years can go by before we have the 15 countries in place. It will be incredibly important for many people around the world if we can get the nutrition into it. I already have a good dialogue with, among others. The shipping association about it, and I want to be busy also to drag the Storting and other parties into that work. It can be very important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2426	I have a few specific questions for the Council of State. The first questions are: What work has been done by Norway today to get other countries to ratify the agreement? As we spent four years ourselves on it: how long will the other countries spend to get it in place? Governments have said several times here that it was 14 years from this initiative until the convention was put in place. No, it didn't. It took ten years before the convention was in place, from 1999 to 2009. However, Norway has chosen to spend four years presenting the case to the Stortinget. Very familiar is the Council of State responsible for this. Then it's too easy for the council to say that he doesn't know this. But it's going to be interesting at a later stage to hear the reason why the Council of State has spent four years writing six pages. As I said, my specific question to the Council of State is this: what have you done to other countries to get them to ratify the agreement, even if we haven't done anything ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2439	We have today agreed on this in Stortinget – i.e. we are very likely to adopt it afterwards. We have a close dialogue with a number of countries about it. What we're seeing is the main challenge, is that many countries are holding back, refusing to ratify. It may be a long way to go in time to get enough countries to do it. Single countries, including France, I think, lies far ahead – is about the same place in the loop as us. But there is no doubt that it will require that we keep in touch with the authorities of other countries about it, and that we continue the dialogue through the industries, because there are quite a number of countries that have industries that are busy putting in place the convention and the legislation, as the Norwegian industry is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2444	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2447	Since the debate was a little different than I had thought, with the big focus on the fact that it has taken time to ratify the agreement, I really feel a need to say that Norway was very early in noting that we would ratify. That may be the most important thing, because it is likely that we are ratifying the agreement today, unfortunately there is no difference until 14 other countries have also ratified. So it's work to get others to ratify that will be the important thing, and Norway has for a long time announced that we should ratify. Very familiar are the guidelines that IMO is working on regarding the Convention, still not finished, so it wouldn't have mattered if we had ratified earlier. Otherwise I think it's a pleasure that we do it. It is important, as the rapporteur said, because Norway is the world's fifth largest shipping nation. And the Shipowners' Association has done a great and good job in this area, after Greenpeace actually took up the matter first, in 1998. But there is also another reason, and that is that Norway is in second place after Greece on a worst list among EU/EEA countries as the country that sends most ships to shores in South Asia. And if we do manage to get 14 countries to ratify this agreement, it will end up with such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2454	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2468	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2477	When the committee was asked to deal with this matter, it was a matter which one would like to have quickly passed through in Stortinget. I think the committee has made that clear. Let me start by thanking the Committee and all those involved for having dealt with the matter quickly, and hopefully we can take a unanimous decision in relation to the needs here today. What is the matter is that there is now a proposed state participation in a preferential right issue in Cermaq, of which the State's share is approximately 700 million. SEK of a total pot of 1,6 billion. kr. At the same time, it has been suggested in this case that the state's holdings in Cermaq are reduced to 40 pst. This preferential issue shall finance, on the one hand, the purchase of Copeinca and, on the other, the maintenance of sound financial capacity to support the creditworthiness of the company and to ensure financial flexibility for continued profitable growth. In the case of Copeinca, this is one of the largest fishmeal and fish oil producers in Peru, again the main inputs in fish feed produced by Cermaq. I would like to stress that Cermaq's board of directors believes that a purchase of Copeinca is a strategically important step in achieving safer access to critical raw materials as well as opportunities to improve operations and profitability. In the case of other companies, the size has previously dealt with similar types of cases, where one gains greater control over the whole of its production, which may prove to be a strength. The board also believes that the purchase will strengthen Cermaq’s strategic position and provide safer access to a more integrated value chain. There is also reason to point out that the Cermaq Board has estimated significant synergies in terms of buying-in and that they believe that these should be realised within a few years. This is also supported by the assessments given to the Committee by the Ministry, and in principle the matter should be relatively simple. Cermaq is an international fish farming and feeding group – listed on Oslo Børs – and has its head office in Oslo. They have activities in the major salmon farming regions of the world. In the ownership Communication, we state that the objective of the country’s ownership in Cermaq is to contribute to the development of an important environment for farming, feed and research on feed in Norway and internationally. Similarly, it is very clear from a joint committee that the company should be a significant player in the further development of the Norwegian farming industry. In this way, the strategic approach to the Copeinca transaction should be consistent with the country’s objectives with the company. So it has happened that the transaction has also received significant attention. This is due, inter alia, to: Marine Harvest has announced that they will bid the shares in Cermaq, provided that the transaction is not executed against Copeinca. So far in the process, it has been assessed that the offer might not be satisfactory, and it is not our task in this case to assess this relationship directly, but to assess what the board and government propose to Stortinget in relation to Cermaq. So far it seems to be proper assessments for the company. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee agrees to give authority to participate in this preferential issue, and I believe that this is an important and proper basis for Cermaq's further development and position. Finally, I firmly believe that it is also right to mention, since there has been a public space in relation to the case, that certain assessments have been made about the company and Copeinca’s social responsibility – it has been assessed in the case. According to what has been presented to the Committee, Cermaq has carried out risk assessments in the field of sustainability and societal responsibility, including: with the assistance of an internationally recognised sustainability adviser. The company believes that what has emerged related to social responsibility is manageable. I would therefore just like to stress that it is very important that the company's board of directors and the government in their ongoing dialogue with the company follow up this very important point of social responsibility and also with regard to the company's further reputation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2496	I will try to relate as much as possible to the matter, and what this matter concerns, but I am sure to step over the sideline and take what has happened in the process until now. This matter is not whether or not to buy Copeinca. The issue we have on the table is whether or not the Storting agrees that the State will participate in its share of the issue, so that the board and the general meeting, if any, can make their decisions on the purchase of Copeinca. It amounts to 700 million. kr on the part of the Norwegian state, all the time that we have a share of 43,5 pst. This proportion will then be reduced to approx. 40 pst. through the form of settlement underlying the offer you wish to make in the case of Copeinca. So there's a lot that can happen in the process ahead. Even if we say yes today to be on this issue, it may be that other owners besides those we have an overview of in the matter itself, may say no to be on an issue, which may actually stop the Copeinca purchase. Then we have to be aware that although the state today says yes and the People's Security Fund says yes, it can still be a no. It is an assessment carried out by the individual owners. I think that for Cermaq's part, if the case goes further, Copeinca could be a positive case for the company. When the Chairman of the Committee speaks of the assessment made in connection with the purchase of Copeinca, according to the financial advice made by Fondsfinans ASA for the State, the Copeinca share is reasonable, so it is a fair price linked to that share. It is the assessment carried out. We have not been given access to any information other than that located there. In fact, the Progress Party – and we already said that in the ownership message that we dealt with in this room a few years ago – believes that Cermaq was one of the companies that could be sold out. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists has proposed it in the vote, and I am referring to that proposal. It is linked to the fact that we want to give the government an authorisation to sell the state's shares in Cermaq ASA when you find it right. It is not exactly the money you need in this case, but it is simply to find an industrial actor who can drive the company forward in a way that is different from what one does on the part of the authorities. This, of course, brings me to the point that in the final phase, when we dealt with the matter in the committee, this case made a little more difficult, namely that there was an alert for a possible bid on the company Cermaq from Marine Harvest. In this connection, the Committee sent a letter to the Council of State, including: asked for an evaluation of the bid made in relation to the proposition. Governments respond that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will assess the potential offer in the usual way. There are no current conditions whereby the Ministry modifies the assessments taken into account in Prop. 119 S. I'm assuming that the Council of State gets into these things in its article, because here it's obviously some of the things we want answers to. My challenge, of course, is also related to Cermaq ASA and the price assessment, because the prices of these companies vary considerably from day to day, and the state is sitting as I said at 43.54 pst. – that’s what we totally own – in the company. As I said, the Progress Party believes that we do not need to own this company, and has made suggestions that we can sell it. It is clear that this company is in competition with many private players in the market. But at the same time, we as owners have to act responsibly, we have to ensure that the values of this company are obtained. That's why the Progress Party is voting for the issue, as long as the other owners are also on issue for the purchase of Copeinca. In this way, we have helped to act commercially in the company, and we as owners do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2519	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2522	The matter is'relatively simple', says the Chairman of the Committee. Yes, for us who have long thought that the company should be sold, and who thought it was in connection with the ownership notification, it is probably not that easy. Actually, a joint committee finally agrees on something that part of us disagrees on in depth and reason, and there is a bit of the problem in this matter. So here you have to try to distinguish between what is business conduct, what are procedures, and what is big business, and the big business is to contribute to responsible ownership procedures. It's absolutely central. We have been selling the company for several reasons, but in particular because the business implies that the State has a dual role in regulation, in terms of concession requirements, in terms of supervisory authority, mixed with a large ownership. We have thought that is unfortunate, especially when it is also a Category 1 company, which has only business purposes. Then you can go into the Marine Harvest issue – the two previous speakers have done so far. The Chairman of the Committee has also done so. As I perceived him, he thought that one commandment might be better than the other. It doesn't mean anything to the right at all. We relate to what we have heard and received in writing. We see that Fund finance took some reservations. We've got answers to them, and besides that, we don't have any idea that one thing is better than the other. The important thing is in a complicated matter to try to keep the procedures apart. Then I want to say that now the process has to go its way, after the setting has been adopted. This means that the organs of the company should deal with this further. Then it is important to remember the country's ownership principles, including: equal treatment of shareholders. Now there is nothing here to suggest that one has not been treated equally, but when the state is a significant owner, the principles also show that one should act in such a way that one has confidence in the markets and has confidence in the public. I think this case is a typical example of that. I believe that the Council of State, and also the Government, must have a very high level of attention to the further treatment in the General Assembly and what is happening. It would be very unfortunate if we got into situations that show that at least we should have avoided creating a situation and creating a picture of the ambiguity of governance. Of course, it is perfectly right for shareholders to disagree — yes. But there is something about the premises and the basis you agree with or disagree with, and I have to say that it would of course be easier for Stortinget to get a case at an earlier time. I understand that Marine Harvest as a big actor is now interested. If they had been interested earlier, it would have been much easier to decide on this, instead of these recordings that come while we are dealing with the matter. It would also have been an opportunity for the government to operate with an underwriting guarantee and thus lowered the public ownership interest in the company if you wanted to. But I understand that you wanted to keep the ownership that has been, and do not go any less than 40 pst. I would like to remind you once again that the government's governing principles in the further processing are becoming absolutely central, and we will take care of them from the Stortinget side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2540	Cermaq is one of the world's leading aquaculture companies, and the state owns 43 pst. of the axes of the company. The board of Cermaq has announced their intention to purchase from Copeinca ASA. As part of this, they will carry out a right-of-appreciation auction of $1.6 billion. kr. The Government proposes that the State vote for the proposed issue for which the Governing Board is in favour. It is in line with the principles underlying the state's ownership. Copeinca is the producer of fishmeal and fish oil, which are important raw materials for the production of salmon feed. In the Ownership Notice Cermaq is placed in the category of companies for which the State has commercial objectives. The purpose of the company is to produce fish feed, fish farming, aquaculture and other naturally related activities. The company should have an active role in research and development in the marine and farming sectors, and it is a business area in which the country has found it reasonable to be within, since it is an important sector of Norwegian business. The board of Cermaq pointed out that the purchase of Copeinca is strategically important for the further development of the company. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has engaged an external agency that believes that the price of the axes is reasonable, or, as others have been here, goes under the professional ‘fair price’. And then there's another thing that could be mentioned here, and it's that Cermaq has informed the ministry that the company has made risk assessments in the field of sustainability and social responsibility, and that they have been helped by recognized external actors. It is, as the case-speaker was about, reasonable to comment, since it has also been part of the media debate somewhat more timely than in this context. It is an industry where there are many challenges related to environmental resilience and societal responsibility. It is therefore natural to refer to the ownership message, which emphasises that state-owned companies are in the lead when it relates to environmental measures in their industry. Furthermore, the Ownership Notice states that state-owned companies are to be the leaders in the social responsibility work in their fields. Companies with international activities shall be linked to the United Nations Global Compact and the eight core conventions of the ILO shall form the basis of the company’s operations. SV expects Cermaq to support these instructions in the ownership message for further work. It is strategically important for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2557	The Cermaq Board of Directors announced on 5 April that it intends to purchase into Copeinca ASA and as part of this, to conduct a preferential right issue of SEK 1.6 billion. kr. Copeinca is a large producer of fishmeal and fish oil, which are critical raw materials for the production of salmon feed. Cermaq does not currently have its own production and meets its needs through purchase in the open market. The Party supports the assessment of the Government in the proposed preferential rights issue in Cermaq. In this there is also an acceptance that the state’s ownership interest is reduced from 43.5 pst. down towards 40 pst. I also refer to the Ministry of Industry's assessment that Cermaq's purchase of Copeinca is well strategically and commercially justified, and that it is strategically and commercially reasonable for the State to participate in the proposed issue. This will involve an investment of approx. 700 million. kr. A State holding in Cermaq of more than one third ensures negative control by the State of decisions requiring a two-thirds majority. An dilution from the level of the day to 40 pst. thus does not alter the formal possibilities available to it today for such control of these important decisions, including the transfer of head office, the extension of share capital and changes in the statutes. Cermaq’s activities are mainly the rearing of salmon and trout and the production of feed for the same species. Following the proposed acquisition of Copeinca, Cermaq proposes to establish Copeinca as a new business unit for fishmeal and fish oil, operating in Peru. When the Center Party supports the government in this matter, an important argument for us is that Cermaq will take advantage of the considerable expertise and experience of both organisations in improving the performance and quality of different fishmeal and fish oils. We have noticed that Cermaq's board of directors believes that a purchase of Copeinca is a strategically important step in achieving safer access to critical raw materials as well as ensuring operation and profitability, and that the purchase will strengthen Cermaq's strategic position and provide safer access to a more integrated value chain. The Cermaq Board has estimated significant synergies of the purchase and considers that these should be realised within a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2574	The Christian People's Party has always been a member of a mixed economy where state ownership in Norwegian business is an important instrument for ensuring good social development. In order to take a general view of such an important industrial policy issue as state ownership and the degree of such ownership, qualified justification is required for both us and other parties. In the ownership message, the government lists several reasons for state ownership that the Christian People's Party can place behind: The State shall be a professional and long-term owner who contributes to the profitability and industrial development of companies and thus to the return on government investment. State ownership shall be used as an instrument for resolving relevant societal tasks. State ownership shall ensure that Norwegian key companies remain in Norwegian hands under Norwegian management. State ownership shall prevent the deflagration of essential point competence. All of this is important and good reasons for an active state ownership, although in the Christian People's Party on a general basis we see a space of action for a certain reduction in the state involvement on the ownership side of Norwegian business. Nevertheless, there is one reason for active state ownership, which was also mentioned in the ownership message, which is particularly important to us in the Christian People's Party. In the management of investments of more than 600 billion kr the State shall exercise social responsibility, i.e. that the State, as a joint owner, has clear expectations of the behaviour of companies with State funding of ownership in the market. This applies here to countries, and to the extent that the country has holdings in companies that have interests or are located in other countries. I would like to refer here to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee at its meeting on 9 June 2011. The chapter on government expectations and follow-up to corporate social responsibility states: The Government expects: – ‘Companys with international activities are linked to the United Nations Global Compact and that companies with international supply chains consider the same.’ [[...]] The Christian People's Party has repeatedly underlined the social responsibility of the state as its owner. There is also an important reason why we are agreeing to the share issue that will allow Cermaq ASA to purchase Copeinca ASA. Both companies operate in an industry where environmental challenges and severe taxation of fish species as feed raw material are key issues. We have no problem seeing the purely commercial benefits of the transaction, where Cermaq acquires control over one of the world's largest fish oil and fishmeal producers. For us, however, it is a very important argument to support State participation in the preferential rights issue that continued state participation in Cermaq also provides an opportunity to exercise active and responsible ownership. As a co-owner, the State will provide guidance signals on resource withdrawals, preventive environmental work and a responsible employer policy for the company's employees in countries with completely different conditions in the world of work than we are used to. At the same time, we note with some concern that the decision-making basis could have been better in this matter. In the process, Marine Harvest has announced that they will submit a bid to Cermaq ASA, without the Ministry having carried out an external assessment of the content of the bid. We also record that Fondsfinans ASA has been engaged by the department as a financial advisor and that they believe that the price Cermaq has to pay for the shares is reasonable, subject to the fact that the information from the company is correct. At the same time, Fund finance has underlined that there is significant uncertainty about future quotas of fish raw material, with associated volume and price prospects for fishmeal and oil. Fund funding has also raised uncertainties about the level of operating costs, taxes, taxes, investments and synergies associated with the purchase of Copeinca. The Christian People's Party believes it is unfortunate that the Storting should make a decision on this matter on such an uncertain basis. We believe that the ministry should have considered these uncertainties in more detail in the comments on the matter. With these comments, the Christian People's Party will agree that the State is taking part in a right-of-appreciation auction that allows Cermaq ASA to buy up in Copeinca ASA. We understand that the transaction will now result in a decrease in the state's ownership interest in Cermaq ASA to a minimum of 40 p.p., so that the state still has negative ownership control in cases that require more than two thirds of a majority. We also understand that necessary changes are being made to the State budget to finance the State's share of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2625	The left has the same position that we have had in relation to all ownership messages, at least the last two, in terms of public ownership: the company we are talking about today, Cermaq, should not have been part of it as it is an important public task to own. It is important that the public is an active owner and contributes in areas where participation in ownership is important. As far as Cermaq is concerned, we believe that it is unfair for the state to be both the owner and such an important regulatory authority in the same area. That is why we have thought that we should sell ourselves into this company as soon as possible. When we read the case, it seems that the government's motivation for today's expansion is about keeping state ownership for too long to come. And sailing if you get a smaller holding in Cermaq, this means increasing the state's share of Oslo Exchange by 700 million. kr. The state owns a lot of Oslo Stock Exchange and wants to own even more with this expansion. That means the Left is in the wrong direction. What you also do is you buy a company that has been fined several times for overfishing. We believe that there are major environmental policy issues, and I am also uncertain whether there are such companies that you should contribute to the purchase of from this room. We also see that there are stakeholders who want to buy Cermaq today. Some of them are also partners, and many of these partners are also critical of this expansion. In sum, this is a matter of great uncertainty. We're very uncertain whether this is reasonable strategic. We're very uncertain whether this is sensible for the environment. And we believe that this is a step directly in the wrong direction in terms of sales and public ownership both at Oslo Børs and within which companies we should be active. We are also very uncertain whether this is the proper management of our common wealth. What you're actually doing is you're moving 700 million. kr from the oil fund and the proceeds of the oil fund. We're going to follow what we've basically meant in the past, seafaringly, and voting for proposal No. 1, but we will also vote against the extension and the proposal for a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2643	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the committee for their thorough and timely consideration. The Cermaq Board of Directors announced on 5 April that they intend to purchase the shares of Copeinca ASA. To finance the purchase, the State has been asked to participate in a preferential issue in Cermaq and to vote for a corrected issue in Cermaq to pay part of the Copeinca shares with Cermaq shares. These are matters at the ordinary general meeting on 21 May. Through the proposal currently under consideration, it is requested that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade be authorised to use approx. 700 million. kr to participate pro rata in a capital increase of SEK 1,6 billion. kr in Cermaq. Copeinca ASA is a large producer of fishmeal and fish oil that are critical raw materials for the production of fish feed. Cermaq currently has no own production of fishmeal and fish oil, and the board believes the purchase is important in order to achieve safer access to these raw materials. Fish oil and omega 3 are generally expected to become a more scarce resource, and the production of Copeinca will be able to meet a significant proportion of Cermaq’s fish oil and fishmeal needs. Following the purchase of Copeinca, Cermaq will be an integrated protein company with a value chain covering the capture of anchoveta, the production of fish oil and fishmeal, the production of fish feed, fish farming, sales and distribution. It is the government's assessment that the purchase of Copeinca is well strategically and commercially justified, and that Cermaq will thereby strengthen its strategic position. Such a transaction will always involve a certain risk and different risk factors are described in the proposition. At the company's discretion, such purchase does not involve a disproportionately high risk, be it reputational, operational or financial. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has engaged Fund finance as financial adviser. Fund finance has issued a so-called ‘fairness opinion’, or fairness assessment, concluding that the price Cermaq has agreed to purchase the shares in Copeinca is reasonable, or so-called ‘fair’, and that it is rational for the State to invest in Cermaq through participation in the issue. The different risk factors are taken into account in Fund finance's valuation. Cermaq considers the risk to be manageable. This applies, inter alia, to: sustainability and societal responsibility risks, where Cermaq believes that with their competence they can contribute to strengthening the management of these issues. This is also something that the ministry places on following up companies with state ownership, and we will continue to do so. As regards the bid for Cermaq that Marine Harvest announced on 30 April under certain conditions, I consider it positive that a central actor shows interest. There is currently no formal bid, but the Ministry has nevertheless made an assessment of the Marine Harvest notice. As I expressed in a letter to the Business Committee on 3 May, it is our preliminary assessment that a bid of NOK 105 per share does not reflect Cermaq's underlying values and for a type of transaction as proposed. This is also our final assessment. Another condition is that the Cermaq shareholders choose not to execute the Copeinca transaction. My starting point is that it would be commercially reasonable for the state as a shareholder in Cermaq to vote to participate in the issue. It will facilitate a strengthened Cermaq that can also actively participate in further consolidation in the industry in the future. However, if the issue is not adopted, there will be no capital expansion in the company and therefore no use of the state's funds. As I see it, no new material information has emerged at present that would change the assumptions in the proposition submitted or in the conclusion to it. The Government therefore considers that it is right that the State participates pro rata in the proposed capital increase where the State's share will be approximately. 700 million. kr, and requests that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade be authorised to participate in the preferential right issue. I'm glad it seems to be a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2676	It was the state council itself that brought up in its post that warned the possible bid – I think we'll call it – at 105 kroner per share, which you've at least seen in a press release. The council said in its statement that this was something that was assessed in the department, and that it was not found well enough. When the offer was submitted, it was 22 pst. over the closing price of the company that day. My question to the Council of State is first and foremost just to make sure that we have a good basis for the coming bids. If a concrete bid is submitted on the State's share, will the State Council ensure that an external assessment is obtained, either through Fund finance or any other, that assesses these matters so that we can reach a decision on such a basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2683	It is our idea that if we get a formal situation, we will also use external competence to assess both price and other questions about such a transaction that would be relevant. We often do that, even if it's not formal. We're using the skills that are best suited to it. That's not all we have within, even though we've strengthened our ownership department considerably. This is the kind of assessment we want to use external consultants to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2688	The Economic and Social Committee is currently considering the report. St. 22 for 2012–2013, which has the vision that Norway will become the world’s leading maritime nation. That communication describes the seafood sector as a global industry, which also consists of quite a number of large, robust companies. I don't think anyone disagrees that if we're going to reach the vision, it becomes important that we have large, robust companies in Norwegian hands. In the ownership message that was dealt with in 2011, we can read about the company Cermaq. The country’s target formulation states that the state is concerned that the company is a significant player in the further development of the Norwegian farming industry. My question to the Council of State is not so much about Cermaq. But if we ignore Copeinca and the purchase, a purchase from Marine Harvest will, for example, by Cermaq, in the opinion of the Council of State, be involved in fulfilling the objective of using the company to further develop the Norwegian farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2695	We have placed Cermaq in what is called the Category 1 company, that is, our purpose of ownership is commercial, and the aim of the administration is to maximise the values of the company. Of course, it is an underlying purpose of all state ownership that it should contribute to good value creation, jobs and industrial development at home as well. It was kind of strange to hear from the left, which was very principled that we can't own an area where we also regulate. I think, for example, Statoil is an area that is well regulated, but where we have state ownership. If it is appropriate for the values of the company, and also for the Norwegian development of the breeding industry, for Marine Harvest to carry out a transaction that is aired in the media, we must decide if such a specific bid is made. I don't want to speculate about that in Stortinget. We're going to evaluate it in a serious and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2702	It may be difficult to deal with such a specific case, but in order to solve it a little: as one has used the target statement that the state is concerned that the company is a major player in the further development of the Norwegian farming industry, it is not just secondary – it does matter, I suppose. Does the Council of State see other constellations or other possibilities where the company Cermaq can be used to further develop the Norwegian farming industry? And then I see it in the light of the big message that is now available, where you have a pretty ambitious and potent vision that we're going to be the world's leading seamate. And as I said, a lot of people probably agree with me that we need robust, big, heavy players on Norwegian hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2709	First of all, I believe that Cermaq is already contributing to the development of the Norwegian farming industry, and I believe that the Copeinca purchase that we have for discussion here today contributes to such a strengthening, also by making Cermaq a better integrated company in the different stages of the chain. And I believe that Cermaq will continue to be, whether they are part of different industrial, structural solutions, and whether they continue as a separate company. We have more big companies – Marine Harvest is clearly the largest in Norway, but you have Lerøy, SalMar and many others – who each day contribute to new innovation, technology development, good operation, environmental solutions, etc., and Cermaq is to be one of these companies. They do that today, and they will do that in the future. They shall be operated on a commercial basis, and we shall consider the future for them on that basis as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2716	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2721	I think the debate has been a good one. It has also clarified the positions of the different parts. I just have a few small comments to make to the representative Fleet. He mentioned it so that I said the matter was simple. That's not what I said. I said that the matter should initially be simple, but that the Marine Harvest bid made you get other elements into the matter that one of course has reflected on. Similarly, I said that one commandment is better than the other. No, I did not say that either, I said that it is not something we should specifically assess in connection with this treatment. But then there is an interesting case now at the end of the line change between the Council of State and the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen. For this reason, it appeared that the Right Representative considered that Cermaq could have a significant position in developing further farming and aquaculture in Norway. That is when I am a little surprised when they propose without reservation to sell Cermaq, without considering the importance it has for the development of the Norwegian aquaculture industry. I think that's a little weird. It shows the principal entry to the Right of State ownership, that it is about selling without assessing the consequences for the further development of the Norwegian farming industry – to which an overall committee joined in the ownership notification, when we dealt with it very recently. Because that's where we clearly write: ‘The Committee points out that the State is concerned that the company is a significant player in the further development of the Norwegian farming industry.’ By this, of course, the Committee believes that Cermaq should be. But when one then chooses to go in to sell the company, to dispose of the company, there is also a very clear emphasis on the Right's entry into ownership in this case: that it is about selling, without looking at the consequences for the development of the Norwegian farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2733	At the outset, I would just like to thank the Council of State for the clarification he just made, which is an important clarification, namely that, if a bid was to be made, an external assessment of that bid, so that you remove any uncertainty about that process. I think that is very important, and it was very good that the Council of State in its answer to my question was very specific that it would take place if such a bid appeared. I would also like to make it clear that what we are doing today is that we are agreeing to an issue based on our share in the company. That's what we're dealing with -- if you get enough support from the company's shareholders to make such an issue. That's what's on the table, and that's what we're agreeing to today. So a small matter related to the Committee's chairman's little passions with the Right. I'm absolutely sure that Frank Bakke-Jensen is going to defend himself, but we're in the same comment, so I'm going to do a little reading for the committee's chairman. It can be very straightforward when he comes up with the statement he's making, because this is actually about why you want to sell. This was already explained in the ownership message; we already pointed out at the time that the government would be authorized to sell. The setting reads as follows: ‘These members, however, are of the opinion that a sale of the shares of Cermaq ASA is to take place at a time when a bid appears to be good both for the State as a shareholder and for Cermaq as a company. The State shall at all times act as a professional owner who shall always have the interests of the company and its shareholders in focus.» This is important, because I am absolutely sure that if you can find other industrial owners of a company like Cermaq, it could give an even more robust company, and also continue the company with the competence of one that had to hold. It is not that the state is always the best owner, but the state can also be the owner until the time when other actors can be found to contribute. So it's not necessarily that you have to sell the company, but if the time is right, if the shareholders want it – other shareholders – and if it might be in the interests of the company to get other owners, then the Progress Party wants to have that opportunity open, and wants to give the government that authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2750	It was the head of the Business Committee, the representative of Aasland, who gave me the opportunity to point out a small difference, and I am grateful for that. The right has a very conscious relationship with ownership. While the head of the Business Committee shows that he has a relatively unconscious relationship to it, it is too right to point out that one should own something, but one should know why one owns it, and one should have a goal with ownership. In the ownership message we explain why we wanted to sell the company Cermaq. The state has a major supervisory role, a major executive role, in relation to an industry such as the farming industry – an industry that we have announced we will use to become the world's leading maritime nation. In the maritime food communication, we're dealing with numbers where the value creation is going to increase by six times for the seafood industry until 2050. So we're going to be a formidable actor. We believe in the Right that it is important that the state has a conscious relationship with it with ownership. It is also the case that I ask the Council of State whether one has taken into account the target wording of the ownership message when assessing the case we are dealing with today: «Member States are concerned that the company is a significant player in the further development of the Norwegian farming industry.» For the right, it becomes important that when we own, we should be a professional owner, and the state should appear as a good owner. We have justified the sale of Cermaq that we consider it unfortunate that the state has such a double role. It becomes unclear when to exercise supervision and have administrative authority at the same time as to be a large, dominant owner. So that's not the way the head of the business committee tries to label us as here, that we jump out and call out to sell, sell as soon as we have the opportunity. On the contrary, we have a very conscious relationship with the state that owns it as a professional owner – a very conscious relationship with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2764	I think the chairman of the committee should be satisfied with how he has got through the matter in a good way, with the good support of the committee all the way, instead of using the afternoon for vocabulary on what is really the purpose of the different parties. It is absolutely right that we have a comment in connection with the ownership message, about what is the state of Cermaq. We argue in the following column why we believe that the company should be sold. We are the principal in this matter. We stand by what we said in the ownership announcement, we have good reasons to believe that we should sell the company. Then we have good reasons why you have to be principled and formal when there are cases in companies where you need to join the Storting, for example. to this issue for which there are no particular reasons to oppose. But using the opportunity to talk about the General Right Ownership Policy and that we will sell down both the one and the other – I know that this is a favorite theme for our honourable opponents in the Workers' Party – is not part of the case. We have fine-tuned our principles in this matter. That's why we support the government in this, instead of roaring forward and saying, "Sell it all." We manage the responsibility we have to be the owner, at the very end of the company. The fact that we say in the context of ownership, that the state is a major player, does not mean that it should be, then we would have written it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2771	I am at least happy as the Council of State that the conclusion has broad agreement, even if you had just heard the debate here, could have been a little in doubt as to what the conclusion really was. But the setting is at least sunny, and that's good. I react a little to the argument about state ownership. It wasn't Terje Aasland who brought this up. In fact, there is a rather long comment from the Right and the Advance Party in the vote, in which they discuss the ownership of Cermaq. Since we are debating the setting, it is no wonder that perhaps that part of the setting is also being debated. When you say that you have a principle approach, and you think that the state shouldn't own where you have regulatory authority, the consequence of the logic is that there are a lot of central government companies that have to be sold. One of the most regulated areas we have in Norwegian business is the oil and gas sector. There we own a big oil company, Statoil, with 67 pst. If the principle is that we can't own where we regulate, Statoil must be sold. Telenor, Norway's second largest company, is also within a regulated area. One has licences for telecommunications in competition with other companies. It is the state that distributes them, and there are many other decisions that affect that company. Then Telenor must be sold out. State power operates absolutely in an area where there is a lot of public exposure and a lot of rules. It's an important company for Norway. The logic must be that it is sold out. Hydro, which operates in an area where one is also dependent on large power contracts – a very regulated area affected by public decisions – must be sold out. In this political pre-election climate – where the right is sitting so quietly in the boat that you don’t notice that it’s a boat and that you’re on rocking ground – it’s no wonder that you try to pretend that you’re not against state ownership, because this state ownership has quite wide support, not least because it’s an economic good, and that it ensures Norwegian head office and Norwegian income, a lot of basic interest rates and other things. The state is a big owner. We now own 4,000 billion. kr and more than that of non-resident corporations, properties and debt securities. A sale of Norwegian companies will only mean that we have to buy more into the foreign companies and own less here at home. But what was fine with both Svein Fleet posts and Frank Bakke-Jensen's principal approaches was that I felt that we got a little decent Right Policy for once – what you really think about the state ownership. It's good to bring with us when we're going to determine Norway's direction further on 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2782	When a person points to something that may seem a little incoherent, at least in the rhetoric of the Right – and possibly also politics – one of the representatives of the Fleet is accused of ‘bubbling up’. I guess I didn't realize that in my previous post, I was in some way bullied. I just pointed out that the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen was a little concerned about what is very clear in the communication of ownership and also in the position of the committee, namely that the state is ‘obtained from the fact that the company is a significant player in the further development of the Norwegian breeding industry’. Then I wondered what clarifications, what thoughts, they had in this regard about it in connection with Cermaq, when they are on a proposal that one on principle – more or less – wants to sell the company. Then, of course, I am aware that the Right also had that position in relation to the ownership message – that is formally correct. But then I just want to stress that the majority here, too, who are not now choosing to point to sales as a solution, also very clearly in the matter we are dealing with, are on the dry side with regard to a formally correct basis. For the case of the extension of Cermaq against Copeinca that we are dealing with, it is part of supporting the purpose of the state with the company. There it is clear that the purpose of country ownership is to contribute to the development of an important environment for farming, feed and research on feed in Norway and internationally. One can not say anything other than that the matter we are actually dealing with today is helping to support that very thing. So there might be different perceptions of the industrial road for Cermaq. I'm not going to go into that right now. At the same time, we do not reject assessments in relation to the future position of Cermaq regarding their significance, for example. to achieve the purpose of the ownership message. But it's a little strange that every time you pick up Right-wing eagerness to privatize, you're described as ‘bubbling up'.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2794	Svein Flätten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2797	It wasn't really the committee leader I characterized, but he'd have to be allowed to take offense if that's what he wants. I just take the word very briefly to continue the discussion that has been on this with control, supervision, regulatory authority, while being state-owned. There is one significant difference between all the examples of the Council of State and the Chairman of the Committee, which is that this is a category 1 company. If the state council has any more that are similar, where the state is also the regulatory authority, I would like to see them. I think Cermaq is very special in this context, and it's also in a very special industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2804	It'll be relatively short. We sometimes have these ownership discussions, and we are constantly getting the impression that we have to sell ourselves out to everyone. It's not right, it's not right that we should sell ourselves out of everything. It's as the Fleet correctly says: we have a conscious relationship with what kind of company it is. It is also a little strange that the Council of State in these discussions, where we claim that there can actually be fundamental reasons for looking at the kind of roles you have and whether the state should have both supervisory and dominant — large — ownership, or whether you should look at it, very often comes running with the State pension fund abroad. In fact, at least for the shares we own abroad, the state does not jump in with any supervision or with any administrator. There's no double role. There's the state out there owning, quite simply, so it's not very problematic. But sometimes there is reason to ask questions about whether the State should be both a dominant owner and a supervisory and administrative authority. That is what we have asked questions about, and for this company we have assessed that it is not favourable. So once again, we say, sell it. But as said earlier in the article, when we own it now, we're going to look like serious owners and professional owners. That is why we have entered into full merger with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2815	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2818	Only purely explanatory: in connection with Reporting. St. 13 for 2010–2011 was the Council of State itself that categorized companies through that notification. Based on the Industry Committee, Innst. 392 S for 2010–2011. In this context, you can go in and look at what the Progress Party and other parties have thought about each company. It is precisely in Category 1 company Cermaq, and it was in this context that it was proposed to give the government the power to sell when it was thought that the time could be right for both the shareholders and the company. If you're wondering what the opposition thinks about each company, the Council of State can go in and read the settings of its own bank account.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2825	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2831	The size should vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2857	During the debate, Mr Tende has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the launch of an independent and comprehensive review of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2881	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2889	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose permanent protection against petroleum activity in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vesteral and Senja, including the whole of Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2917	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of petroleum-free zones in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja.’ The President assumes that the Left supports the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2939	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to abolish the prohibition on the use of lead hail for hunting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e2969	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, saying, ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the lifting of the ban on the use of lead hail in land and open sea hunting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3122	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3132	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3184	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3194	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3202	For this matter, one proposal has been put forward by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote amendments to the Law on Small Boats, which means that personal watercraft are treated in line with other small boats.’ [[Law of 26 June 1998 nr. 47 for pleasure and small craft]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3208	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3302	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3312	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3337	In the course of the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the government to sell the State’s shares in Cermaq ASA’.» The President assumes that the Left will also vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3401	The left has announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 87 votes were cast against 1 vote. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3410	We should take that vote again. There were a lot of people here who didn't vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-14.ana.ud865e3496	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
