ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e107	The representatives of Ingunn Foss, Knut Storberget, Kenneth Svendsen and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave for the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has been submitted from the Group of the Progressive Alliance from 9 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Peter N. Myhre, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e139	Peter N. Myhre is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e145	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Lise Christoffersen. – Other proposals are not available, and Lise Christoffersen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 to 6 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e220	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 50 minutes, the Right 45 minutes, the Advance Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e227	‘You, Norway, have a special place in our hearts’. Nelson Mandela said this when he was released from prison. He continued: ‘You helped us when other countries saw another way.’ These were his words about how he looked at Norway's efforts against racial policy in South Africa. We contributed aid to the liberation movement. This was strongly criticized, it's important to remember that. Not everyone thought it was right to interfere, and if it was really so effective assistance, it was asked. However, it is clear that supporting the ANC was important in the fight against racial segregation policy. I believe that Norwegian development policy is not just about goodness. It is about Norway having a strong voice internationally. When we engage in international climate agreements and the vaccination of all the children of the world, and when we contribute to reducing the level of conflict in the Middle East, it is in line with Norwegian self-interests. Nor does the threat of climate change stop at borders. We already know the consequences of dramatic weather. We've managed to eradicate a lot of diseases, almost polio through mass vaccination, but there's still a need for vaccines that can save children's lives and prevent the spread of dangerous diseases. So this distinction between realism in foreign policy, where we would kind of take care of Norway's own interests, and believe that idealism is on the other side, that distinction is very old. In today's society, in a globalised world, we have great self-interest of Norwegian involvement in foreign policy. I also believe it is important that we, as the richest country in the world, stand firm for the goal of 1 pst. for assistance. But this political theater might be going on in the next few years. Maybe the Left Party and the Christian People's Party think it's okay – I don't know – that the government is proposing cutbacks in the next few years, so they can get the credit to maintain the percentage. Then they can count the influence in billions, get the credit to move on some extra billions that everyone knows will come into place, because there's a majority in this room for the goal of 1 pst. for assistance. But it is nothing but political theaters, and not least Norway's role in arguing in international contexts for other countries to increase their aid budgets is weakened. This is an important objective for Norway. Instead, we should do as the Swedes do, get cross-political agreement on the one percent. The signal that the government does not stand by this, I believe it is completely wrong. Trade is more important, says the government. But we have not seen the concrete initiatives for increasing trade in the south. You may have different opinions here in this Chamber about the ostetoll, but that is probably not the strongest requirement of the poorest countries in the world. In Bali, there was an agreement – that’s good – but the main steps, the main steps, remain in the Doha Round. I also regret cutbacks in support of Norwegian culture abroad. When authors go to international book fairs, Norwegian stage artists cooperate with stage artists in countries without democracy, that means something. I think this area should have been strengthened and not cut. The metal band Enslaved referred to the cut in the following sarcastic manner: ‘We do not really need Norwegian cultural ambassadors. Because with as much attention as the Advance Party has received in foreign press, the band markets itself’, they laughed. But the cut in travel support for cultural life gives us less opportunity to show Norway as a cultural nation, says this band and a lot of other musicians. I also disagree with the cuts made in the UN Food Programme and the signals on cuts in the number of Syrian refugees. I believe that shows the wrong priority. When the neighbouring countries of Syria receive millions of refugees and people open their homes and schools, the government here will pinch in. It's not about many people, but it tells a lot about the priorities that the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing here. We are satisfied with the defence budget. We have also supported the strengthening of the Coast Guard and the Home Guard. But the budget is not in proportion to the criticism of the two parties to the government. For four years, they have been calling for underfinancing. One billion too little, said the Progress Party. 500 million too little, said the Secretary of Defense himself a year ago. Instead, there was now a budget at the level of what was our government budget, following the long-term plan. That is important, and in the years to come, we are facing major investments. Northern areas are also being followed up. Money is important, but also with political focus. More trade, more cultural exchanges and environmental cooperation are important. So far, we are satisfied with the follow-up by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the North Region initiative, but it requires the pace of implementation and follow-up. The northern regions are an important part of Norwegian European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e254	«Political theatre», says Huitfeldt. It would have been exciting to be invited to the closed performances that the red-greens had in between. They're asking if there wasn't a little negotiation there as well. From the Right, we believe that Norwegian foreign and development policy should be based on clear priorities, anchored in liberal values and with the main aim of safeguarding key interests. We believe Norway should be a credible and trusting player in the work of more democratic solidarity. We want a foreign policy based on committed international cooperation, which ensures that the main lines of Norwegian foreign and development policy are firmly established. We want Norway to be an active contributor and participant in the UN, NATO and other international organisations, and not least to pursue an offensive European policy aimed at increasing participation and influence through the EEA Agreement and the other agreements of Norway with the EU. We also believe that Norway, in close cooperation with other countries, should take greater responsibility for achieving sustainable development policy outcomes. By the end of 2013, there are many ongoing conflicts and events that characterise the world picture. It is partly a gloomy picture, but also a point of light that gives hope that global and regional cooperation and contact play a role. The situation in Syria is the second largest and most demanding ongoing conflict. It is apparently locked, but the fear that Assad would use chemical weapons against his people is replaced by agreement on elimination and destruction. The agreement on the elimination of chemical weapons is a victory for the UN and the global world order. Until then, the Security Council was paralyzed and unable to press for political solutions, but the agreement on the destruction of chemical weapons gives hope for further movement. Norway has undertaken a significant task of transport and escorting the transport. I think there is reason to pay tribute to the government for resolute action and willingness to contribute, so that the weapons and chemicals can be properly destroyed. Also the Norwegian Shipowners' Association deserves honor to make ships and crew available to bring this matter into port, literally. Tomorrow, we will be participating in the transfer of the Nobel Peace Prize to the OPCW, the organisation that has been working for a number of years on the production and use of chemical weapons. They have achieved impressive results, and the price is a well-earned recognition of this important work. Unfortunately, the situation in Syria is far from complete. We see daily terrible human suffering, huge refugee flows and a swept country in the media. It is therefore affordable that the government undertakes to accept even more refugees from its home country, and this has been included in the budget that we are dealing with today. On our home continent, we still see European challenges of both an economic and a political nature. The human rights situation in Russia has not progressed well, and there is a seemingly firm situation in Ukraine. In order to quote the President of the European Commission, Barroso, it is unacceptable for a third country to interfere in bilateral agreement negotiations between two countries – in this case Russia’s threatening act against Ukraine’s rapprochement with the EU. The people react to a servil national leadership, and rightly so. We have recently had a broad European and EEA debate in this Chamber, but it is still in place today to express recognition that the new government has placed the list high in its European policy. The Government’s declaration acknowledges that the countries of Europe are our closest neighbours, friends and main trading partners. If we are to dare to have visions on behalf of the nation, we must also have visions for our trade and coexistence with our neighbours. The Prime Minister has seen the need for this and of getting a better impact on matters of national interest. We have the ability to influence and participate early in the EU processes, through the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement. That is why we have got our own European Minister at the Prime Minister's office to do this important work, and in such a way that the Stortinget is more involved. The government wants more involvement in the past to be top priority. We are going to see a government that is informed and present, and at the same time informs and is present in Stortinget. The overall objective of the government is to ensure that Norwegian competitive enterprises are also competitive. 80 pst. of our exports go to EU countries, and closer to 70 pst. of our imports of goods come from EU countries. This makes the EU our second most important trading partner. Access to the internal European market has brought Norwegian enterprises market access and labour we had not managed without. The Norwegian social model has continued and further developed, much due to simplification and safer framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises and workers. The last few days of negotiations and the results of the WTO negotiations in Bali offer promising hopes for a world where transit, exports and imports of goods are becoming simpler and more reasonable. The consensus includes several decisions with an impact on Norway, but particularly on the poorest developing countries, and also includes a declaration of restraint in the use of export subsidies in the agricultural sector, tariff quota administration and food security for developing countries. The development budget of the cooperation parties is 1 pst. by GNI and, in fact, by far greater than the budget of the red-green government, as late as 2013. The right is concerned with a more effective aid policy that creates lasting change, and welcomes the government's objective of taking on a global leadership role in the work of education, especially as regards girls' right to education. By adding 50 million. kr to the Global Partnership for Education has shown such a willingness for leadership in this area. From the Right, I will also refer to the government's increased investment in the world's most vulnerable and poor. Over 30 million. In the case of increased allocations to the World Bank through the International Development Fund (IDA), more effective assistance is provided to the population of the 80 poorest countries in the world. I would also like to point out the importance of a greater emphasis on business as an actor in development policy, with an increase of 15 million. kr for business measures. Also through increased appropriations of 50 million. kr to projects under the direction of Norfund will increase the targeted investment in renewable energy projects. During the comitology process, the cooperation parties have increased Cape. 160, duty 70, civil society, with 20 million. kr, with the aim of strengthening the work of education. Also Cape. 170, Item 72, UN Children's Fund, increased by 20 million. kr, and will go to UNICEF's work to strengthen girls' education. This debate is also an excellent opportunity to recognise the incredibly important and good work our soldiers do, both outdoors and at home. Many are out in international operations. We are still heavily present in Afghanistan and are going to be there for a long time in the future, both civil and military. Still, Norwegian soldiers will risk their lives on mission in Afghanistan. It requires our attention, it requires resources, and it requires adaptation. The period we now go into, with an expected presidential election in Afghanistan and associated rivalry, power use and unrest, is going to be demanding. The Minister of Defence has signalled a possible continuation of Norwegian military missions beyond 2014, and it has our full support here in Stortinget. I used the word "to recognise" for my own part. It is also particularly gratifying to record the recognizable mention of Norwegian soldiers still becoming part of our allies and leading command units for outbound missions, whether in Afghanistan, Aden Bay or elsewhere. It is very pleasant and reassuring that we have a high standard and morality among our soldiers. Unfortunately, some have had to pay with the most valuable thing: their lives. Others have been harmed for their lives. Therefore it is good that the government has now put in place a predictable and decent arrangement for our veterans. 2014 will be an important year. In front of us are new changes in the Defence – especially in the Air Force – according to the long-term plan. The battle lyan acquisition is going on for real, and this is fortunately something the whole Storting has given its support to. Our efforts in the 2014 defence budget, in addition to the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government, include: an increase to the Coast Guard – several sailing days – by 13.9 million. NOK, then SEK 7 million. kr to the Home Guard response forces – several days of practice – and a recognition of the expanded role of the Marine Hunter Command in national preparedness with a fixed entry of 8.5 million. kr. My colleagues from the Right will address the main areas for which we have budgetary responsibility in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e309	Foreign policy is a good example of something greater than ourselves – it's something bigger than each of us in this room and the different parties we represent. Therefore, it is no wonder that there is a tradition of broad consensus around the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. Foreign policy is related to our relations with others and what is happening outside the borders of the country, but at the same time it is a reflection of ourselves and what is happening within the borders of the country. It is in many ways a reflection of ourselves and is not just shaped by our values and our interests, but rather a compromise between our values and our interests. Foreign policy is both the map and the compass and may define us more than many people think about daily. Development policy is more than the number of crowns allocated to the aid budget. Assistance is only one of the pillars of development policy. The point of progress is of the opinion that the large focus on the percentage is both a blindway and a danger that it may become a rest cushion, because you take focus away from the results and look more at the number of dollars. Trade, investment and industrial development are, in the view of the Progress Party, examples of other and much more important pillars. Already now we see a clear indication of the direction the government has pointed out. Freer world trade, investment and more industrial development are essential prerequisites for creating lasting and positive developments in poor countries. Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, should be especially responsible and contribute in this way. It is therefore gratifying that this budget is precisely lifting up and bringing forward what we can certainly say in the fight against poverty and for development. One of the main objectives of development policy must be to contribute to the creation of growth power in poor countries: growth power for local businesses, growth power for jobs, and growth power for development. The State Investment Fund for Industrial Activities in Developing Countries, better known as Norfund, is a central tool in Norwegian development policy. Norfund, established 16 years ago, aims to contribute to economic growth and poverty reduction. Since the start, the fund has had a total return of 10 pst. Nearly 300000 people are employed in establishments where the fund has invested and these enterprises contribute more than 4.3 billion. kr in taxes to local authorities. With the supplement of 50 million. kr will be the total capital grant to Norfund next year in excess of SEK 1,2 billion. kr. This is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, a smart way to use assistance. As if this were not enough, support for nutrient development in poor countries is also increased by 15 million. NOK 219 million. kr. A lot of people in this room are probably familiar with Professor Balthazar of Child TV. Professor Balthazar was a straightforward type who was busy solving problems and helping his friends in the little town he lived in. For this purpose he had invented a universal machine, which by means of some drops solved what was of trouble. Many people in this room may not be aware that such a universal machine actually exists. This universal machine is going smoothly and tightly and is actually in full operation right now. This universal machine is called market economy. I am very pleased that the Committee has recognised this machinery of prosperity and development through a unanimous remark on the strengthening of international free trade based on an open market economy. They are 115 different UN days throughout the year. People like me, this could be a little over the top. I am not going to talk today about the UN International Day for Joy, nor about the UN International Day for Mother Earth – although I am a strong supporter of both joy and mother Earth. Today, December 9, the UN International Day against Corruption, and that is something we should take the time to reflect on. Corruption can best be compared to a virus that breaks down a society from within. Trust and predictability are essential for development. Corruption nourishes the opposite. It nourishes mistrust and unforeseeableness and is one of the main obstacles to political and economic development in poor countries. There shall be zero tolerance to corruption related to the means of assistance. Point! The Nordic regions are Norway’s most remote area of foreign policy interest, and they must also be reflected in our foreign policy priorities. The government will pursue an offensive north-eastern policy. It implies a broad focus on the various Norwegian areas of interest that meet in the north, whether they relate to economics, resources, military presence or environmental challenges. The total budget for north-eastern actions is this year of 2.5 billion. kr. This is an increase of 300 million. kr from last year. This is gratifying and shows that the government is following up the government platform in practice. When I studied Russia and Eastern Europe knowledge of the Blind 15 years ago, we had a syllabus called ‘Russia: Another Europe’. It is still there, and there is a lot to put on Norwegian eyes when it comes to parts of the development in Russia — especially in the area of civil and political rights. We all know the law on NGOs, and we also know the law on gay propaganda. But – and there is one – Russia is our biggest neighbour, and it will be Russia in the years to come as well. That is why we should strive to develop Norwegian-Russian relations, and in this respect we should act with firmness, clarity and also with recognition in maintaining a good neighbourliness across a certain degree of disagreement about direction in the political field – above all. The Progress Party is pleased that the government has announced a balanced approach to the Middle East conflict. The starting point is to be a two-state solution, and that's what you're working for. It's another piece of yours. A good part of the aid, I would say the bulk of the aid in the Middle East, goes to projects for the Palestinians. Much of this is good projects. This involves great responsibility for the recipients, but it also means a great responsibility for us as donors that this money is followed up and used in the way they are intended to be used. The party of progress has full confidence that this government will follow this closely. I would like briefly to refer to an incident that happened in the United Nations a little while ago, and which I think was quite significant. An interpreter had an outburst when dealing with a number of UN resolutions on Israel, there were ten pieces, and she asked – it wasn't supposed to be heard by anyone else – unless ten resolutions about Israel were a little over. That's it. I think I've said what I mean when I mention that episode. My colleague, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, does not have the opportunity to be in the room today because of illness, so I'm going to read up his posts, and I'm starting now: ‘It always seems unpossible until it’s Done.’ — With this quote from Nelson Mandela, the Indonesian Minister of Economic Affairs concluded the WTO Ministerial Conference in Bali. At that time, they had been negotiating for 12 years. The consensus reached in Bali is of enormous dimensions. Getting 160 nations to agree on how the world's trade can best be done, while everyone feels like winners, is no small trick. Results in Bali were received with standing ovations from all countries, with the exception of Cuba, Bolivia, Ecuador and Venezuela. But they didn't veto either. The Bali package includes, inter alia: a new agreement on the simplification of trade procedures which could mean significant savings for business and contribute positively to growth and employment worldwide. It is estimated potential savings of approx. One billion US dollars. The consensus includes several decisions of particular importance for the poorest developing countries. The package also contains a declaration of detention in the use of export subsidies in the agricultural sector, customs quota administration and food security for developing countries, which was the last point that fell into place. Last week I had the opportunity to follow the WTO conference in Bali. The most important lesson I'm left with is that every country can produce something that other countries can be willing to buy. It is only when we allow this that it is possible to create sustainable development. To present it as if the size of the aid budget is the lacmus test for whether you want to help the poor is a too simple ending, perhaps even a short ending. What gets poor countries up and down is access to our markets, and then they have to be allowed to sell it with prerequisites to produce. The Bali package will provide more opportunities for these countries to do just that. This, of course, does not mean that aid should be stopped, but that assistance should be used more to promote business development. I'm glad the government has understood this. The American Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan stated in a reply with a colleague: ‘You are entitled to your own opinion, but not to your own facts’. This well-worded quote fits well with the somewhat strange attitude of the opposition in relation to a remark relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. There is a claim that cannot be verified, either by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then the opposition insists on including the note. The note was also an inheritance from the last year's budgetary position. Then I guess we'll see it again next year, regardless of the facts on the ground. With such a starting point, it is more important than ever that the government has a balanced view of the conflict. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will review the use of Norway's aid money, and that this will ensure that the money is not spent on organisations, institutions or schools that promote anti-semitism and hatred against Israel. At the same time, there is a general need to implement what is a common objective of aid policy, namely that human rights violations should never be rewarded with assistance. It is therefore important to remember what the human rights actually say. They point out that every human being has the fundamental right to equality, equality, freedom of expression and individual freedom. Several countries systematically violate these rights. It is therefore important that the government intensifys the review of the use of Norwegian aid. The foundation of Norwegian security and defence policy is cooperation in NATO. This gives guarantees and obligations. The ambitions of NATO are that the Member States should use 2 pst. of GDP on defence. Norway is currently using 1.4 pst. With this as a hindrance, it is positive that, for example, the acquisition of new fighter aircraft by the Defence Agency will be partly financed outside the defence budget. It is not unnatural to think that such a solution should also be considered for some of the defence’s major acquisitions in the coming years. The most important thing for Norwegian defence is now to strengthen preparedness, increase operational capacity and ensure long-term sustainability. By strengthening the training of the Home Security effort forces, the government contributes concretely and directly to this. That's good. Norway has had strengths in other countries over several years. These do an excellent job. The risk of constantly having to focus on our men and women out there is that the focus on our domestic capacity will be reduced. The outing is important and correct, and it gives us goodwill from our allies. The main task of the defence is, in any case, the defence of Norway. There is a broad consensus in the UK that the defence should continue its presence in Afghanistan beyond 2014, in order to educate Afghan security forces. This is positive. However, it is worrying that the situation in Afghanistan does not appear to be particularly improving. Yes, indeed, the country is not the prime source of international terrorism, but the Taliban does not seem to be reducing in strength. It is also worrying that President Karzai seems more sceptical about American presence than before. It is, of course, arduous to set a final date for Norwegian presence in Afghanistan. Maybe that doesn't make sense either. However, the challenge is that no “mission completed” could be concluded at any time. As part of the continuous long-term planning, as an important part of achieving a real, sustainable and long-term balance between appropriations, structure and tasks, it is positive that the government will assess the need for further modernisation and reform measures in the sector. This also includes a review of assumptions and decision bases in the current long-term plan, in particular if something had changed since the summer of 2012. Without exception, the development of defence systems is becoming more expensive than assumed. This is rarely due to poor planning and hardly conscious under-budgeting. This is mainly due to the technological development and complexity of the integration of different subsystems. Countries that develop complex defence systems are also leaders in other technology areas. This is due, inter alia, to: the spin-off effect of other related technologies. Then I'll stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e372	I thought committee leader Huitfeldt at the beginning of his speech gave us a good start on this budget debate, referring to Nelson Mandela's words. So what he said in 1993 was that the Nordic countries have a very special place in our attention, because it was the countries that supported us when the other nations saw another way. That was support in two ways. There was political support in the fight against apartheid, and there was money in the form of aid. This aid, this support, went through two channels: trade and church. Even if the fight against apartheid and for democracy was fought and won by its own people, we contributed through Norwegian aid and other measures such as sanctions and international pressure. Today, civil society in many developing countries can play an important role in the fight for democracy, human rights and development. Therefore, non-governmental organisations have an obvious place in Norwegian development cooperation. I also found it worth recommending the chronicle of Tom Kristiansen at Nrk.no, where he writes about the amazing person Nelson Mandela, and about what education was given to him in his life as well. It shows just how important it is to give priority to aid for education. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that through this budget we secure 1 pst. of GNI for development cooperation. That means we're basically important, it's passing on the ambitious goal to Norway, and it's an important signal outpost. It is also because aid really plays a major role and is unlikely to be important for us to help fight poverty. However, I would like to make two comments on what has already been said in this debate. The only thing is that this is a political theater. I would strongly distance myself from that. What must possibly have been a political theater was what happened before the election, when the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV said that there would be a furoring of Norwegian policy before development cooperation. It stands out today as the pure theater when we see the result. I would also like to make a comment on the Progress Party's capable foreign policy spokesman, Kristian Norheim – who is drawing up an exciting debate – saying that we must focus on results. I totally agree with that. But there's no contradiction between having a clear focus on achieving results and having a measure of 1 pst. of GNI. In the last few years, I have had the pleasure of debating transport – I feel upgraded now – in this Chamber, and we have also been very busy getting the most money back. But no one has said that this means that we have to cut the transport budget in order to get more for each kroner we use in transport. I think we have to have the same goal within this work. We need every penny in the important aid and development work, but yes – we all need to see the responsibility we have to spend every penny even better. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we now, in the last round, negotiated an increase to voluntary organizations and to the UN Children's Fund, UNICEF, of 40 million. kr. We view this as an additional indication that we are now undergoing a change of course in development policy. For two major periods, the red-green plural has blocked all of our proposals to increase Norway's efforts to secure all children's schooling. In the 2014 budget, for the first time since the Christian People's Party had the Council of State for Development Policy, we will once again receive a marked increase in education aid. I'm glad of that breakthrough. During the period under review, we are to promise education aid as part of the aid budget. The Christian People's Party wants a Norwegian billion bet. Skeleton is not just a human right; it is the key to development. Particular attention must be paid to the education of girls. It is also important to have a special focus on the provision of schools in conflict areas and the provision of schools for those with disabilities. I have heard that when many developing countries have now increased schooling, the need for Norwegian bet is no longer so great. That's wrong. The rolling bet is not only about quantity, but also about quality. It is not enough to ensure that children get to school; they also need to be taught how to achieve real learning outcomes. Then a qualified teacher, good teaching material, needs to own a schoolroom. There's a lot of lack here and a lot of effort is needed. The Cooperation Party is also some to establish a new investment programme, or mandate area, within the Oil Fund to promote investment in poor developing countries. The objective is that this should be profitable investments and yield benefits to us, while at the same time providing economic growth and jobs in developing countries. This is a matter for which the Christian People's Party has been fighting for for a number of years, and with the new number of growing ups, there are now opportunities for realising this. We look forward to discussing more closely the design of such a new scheme. I assume the preconstructions are going well, and we don't have to wait a long time to see that this is going on. So some important words about the defence budget. The Christian People’s Party follows the long-term defence sector plan for 2013–2016. We are not in target when it comes to achieving a balance between structural and defence resources. One important aspect is ensuring a good recruitment of key personnel, and we have seen in particular the challenges faced by maritime defence. We also need to strengthen the possibility and ability of Homeland Protection to have good practice — and especially the forces of Homeland Security. They can also play a decisive role, including: in the preparedness for terrorism in our own country. When it comes to the feedback that Norway receives about its participation in international operations, there is a clear positive feedback. Norwegian forces new great respect internationally for its high quality. We also see some assessments in connection with whether it has been good enough management when it relates to the disposal of the Defense's property masses. There is no time to conclude on this now, but this is a area that needs to be considered, as well as to see if there are potential for improvement. I'll end with two comments around the defense. One of them is the importance of continuing the skills reform in Defence. The defense becomes even more dependent on the high level of competence every day, and we must not underestimate the significance of this. My last point, and as I would like to stress, is that we're forced to have good systems and arrangements for our veterans, and it applies both before, under and after the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e408	The foreign and defence policy in Norway has so far been influenced by the fact that we are talking about more than we are disputing about. The budget presented by the new government, and the conciliation negotiated with the Left and Christian People's Party, is well on the way to the red-green budget. But there are signs that a deal is cracking. Over eight years in government, the Central Party has been in favour of a Norway with small differences, where we share social benefits, and there is 1 pst. has gone to emergency aid. The blue-blue government has given us a bitter taste of which direction the country is now going to lead, and what consequences it will bring to the poor of the world. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party has led us a little bit on the way back to the proposals in the red-green budget proposal, and that we use 1 pst. for aid – or relief, in new Norse – but it is a thin saying for the Left and Christian People’s Party. They were forced to give up almost all of their negotiating cards in order to get it done, and it must have made bad in the soul a lot of KrFs on the right. Børge Burnde says from the Stockholm Chair that the richer we become, the less part of the world's poor will get. Because that's just what he said, when he in this room claimed that their original budget was an increase compared to the red-green budget. That's possible, heads for heads, but the reality is that we're richer now. The 1 percent that we've kept high, which means a lot, not just because it's 1 pst, and that it's growing year by year, but because that's the result for the world's poor, which means something. And if we're going to get results, we also have to put in funds. Over eight years in government, the Center Party has been in favour of a Norway with small differences, where we share social goods. We have also worked for a strong UN and to solve global challenges jointly. There is no contradiction between Norway's standing up for its own interests, while we take responsibility for helping to lift the world's poor out of poverty. That is why I am very concerned when, from now on, the government is going to pursue a policy where we're going to give less to the UN organisations, we're going to give less to renewable energy, and we're going to give priority to quota refugees to find room for Syrian refugees, rather than accepting people who desperately need protection. I mean this is going in the wrong direction, both based on what challenges the world is facing and on our moral responsibility as an oil producing country. It also gives a completely wrong signal to countries with a completely different economic situation than the one we have. A green thread through the budget is ready. Less money for UN organisations means less both prevention and emergency measures. So that's a moral question," said Nelson Mandela in a speech to the World Food Programme in 2004. The fight against silt must be a priority. The recently resigned defense chief, Harald Sunde, was exemplaryly clear and clear on the importance of food for a country’s preparedness. No one's gonna make it without food, a cork in peace or war. The direction of the government's budget, both in the foreign and industrial fields, shows that the new government has not taken this into account. They cut in stockpiles for cereals. They're building down good food soil at a staggering pace. And they cut in support of the World Food Program. I note with interest that the Christian People's Party is not in the comment where the need for extensive WFP efforts is underlined. The Christian People's Party was not supposed to negotiate agricultural policy, they said during the election campaign. It sounds a little hollow when we see agricultural policy as the new government stands for, and when we see that the Christian People's Party does not stand up for organizations that provide food and water for people in particularly vulnerable situations. The government's food policy is going beyond both the preparedness of our country and access to food and water for people who have been hit by disasters. One cannot assume that one can buy food from others if the accident is over. The Philippines burned it in 2008. They believed that neighbouring countries would give them access to rice through the trade agreements of ASEAN, the South-East Asian Cooperation Organisation. It didn't happen. Nabolanda gave birth to his own people first, so they sold the rest to sky-high prices. The climate crisis and other developments point to the fact that safe food access can be less and less matched for given — in Norway and at least in the poorest countries. I'd like to say a little bit about defence policy. The Home Guard is a central part of Norway's preparedness and the defense. Therefore, I am pleased with the growth they get in the budget. Growth is in line with the Centre Party's objective of a visible, accessible and operational home security throughout the country. In line with the long-term plan for the defense, the government is thus bringing forward the planned bet on the Home Security. The centre party also welcomes the growth of the Coast Guard budget frame. The maritime activities on the Norwegian coast and in the sea areas under Norwegian jurisdiction are particularly important for the country’s economy. In addition, we have clear international obligations in our seas, e.g. in the case of resilient management, environmental protection and emergency preparedness. The policy of the North has been high in the reign of the red-green government. We have created growth, development, good reputation and good cooperation with neighbouring countries. It must continue to grow, and it must do so on the basis of the resources existing in the northern regions, but also by the fact that the defence is both present, visible and asserting our interests in these valuable areas of Norway. The Committee is converging that the main priority of defence policy in 2014 is to follow up the current long-term plan for the defence sector in accordance with its decision of the Stortinget. But I asked how deep this was. Their governments and supporters, the Left and the Christian People's Party, will also ‘assess the need for necessary structural adjustments, increased resources and further modernisation and reform measures in the sector include a review of assumptions and decision-making bases in the current long-term plan’. [[...]] [[...]] I have to ask: is this a warning about rematch? Therefore, I will close my post with a question to the Council of State: Can the Council of State guarantee that the defence will be established in its long-term plan, as agreed by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e448	For the Left, it is important to have a value-based foreign policy, where Norway is on the side of human rights and is a consistent defender of them. That's why I think it's nice to have a foreign minister going out to the demonstrators in Ukraine – including those who have been beaten up by their own security police. I like it a lot better than having foreign ministers who pay tribute to dictators; the Norwegian oil companies have important roles in those countries. It is also important to be a clear champion of democracy and poverty reduction. There's a lot of good happening in the world in that area. There's an increasing number of people who can lie down. There are more and more who can cast their votes in an open election. There's a lot going in the right direction, but there are also things going in the wrong direction. We have sea neighbours in the east who are going in the wrong direction, in terms of democracy, human rights and how to maintain an open debate. The left has presented its primary budget in the Grand Duchy, and we also have comments on our primary priorities. We want more transparency in development. We believe it is important to fight against the illegal flow of capital and corruption that is taking place in many countries, and we were told today that Norwegian companies also have a low awareness of. Transparency and transparency are important, and it is important that we also have the opportunity to look at how to develop good functioning market economies, with frameworks that we, as liberals, believe in. We also refer to our own comments here. The government, in its declaration, says that it wants a more results-oriented aid policy. Yes, it is important that our assistance is relevant, reasonable and effective, but it is also important that we, as a rich nation, manage our wealth in a way that is not selfish, but that is about helping to create growth worldwide. That is why we in the Left are very positive that a debate on how to, for example, start is now under way. may use State pension funds abroad to invest wisely in the growing economies so that we can contribute to both growth and poverty reduction, but also to healthy economic systems without corruption and illegal capital flow. But it still remains to be seen how to find the good models for how to realize it. I am very pleased that the government has put a greater focus on education in the aid. It has also been said that you should take a leadership in that area. To that I refer to an interpellation which I have promoted to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on how that leadership can be taken and exercised. I think it is important to take a debate around the great effort we have had, for example. on vaccination programmes, leading to the development of a very centralised health system which does not build up the basic health systems needed in all countries to build freedom and good solutions for citizens. Then you need not only the doctor who comes and gives the children a vaccination stick, but then you also need the good midwife and the good primary health system that is involved in forming it. Nelson Mandela has been mentioned in our debate, and he once said: "Education is the most powerful exponent which you can use to change the world." I believe the great commitment to education and the great focus on girls and education in particular must be important for Norwegian aid policy in the future. It helps to build people who can join and bring their countries out of poverty, but it also helps build equality, democracy and what we don't have a good word for in Norwegian: 'empowerment', which is to give people the power to take control of their own everyday lives. The 1 pst goal has been important for both the Christian People's Party and the Left, but it is clear that it is equally important that we have pressure on the important areas of assistance that make us get the changes that we believe are important to promote human rights, democracy and poverty reduction. I want to have another Nelson Mandela quote. He once said that «Money will create successes, the freedom to make it will.» Money does not make us successful people, but the freedom to make money is part of laying the foundation for a healthy and good country to live in. That is why the WTO unity that came to Bali this weekend was also important for the fight against poverty. That is why having a well-functioning world trade, with the lowest possible barriers – both in the form of bureaucracy and customs between countries – is an important success rate for what Nelson Mandela spoke about: the freedom to make money. That is why it is important that we continue to contribute in the future in order to make the best possible flow in world trade and good solutions for the individual citizen, who wants to produce in the world market in which we are all in. I have three other comments. I should have liked to talk a lot about defense, but I leave it with some clear comments from the Left side beyond what we have written in the setting. There's a lot of work done in the Defence for better organisation and better use of resources there. I think we see a much healthier defense than what we saw maybe ten years ago. But on the left, we see that there is investment in defence that is not balanced, as it is today, and it is a big challenge to get practice done well enough, often enough and large enough to enable us to use that experience. We're probably also the party that's been most critical here of the information flow associated with the fighter aircraft purchases, and we're going to follow it very closely in the years to come. In the case of the Svalbard budget, which is also for treatment and discussion now, I would just like to draw attention to our remark relating to the need for a new coal-fired power plant on Svalbard. Here we have a unique opportunity to build a coal-fired power plant with CO2 cleaning, which can also be an environmental lighthouse. There are not many sources of energy in Svalbard, and being able to do it in a climate-neutral way and create energy for such an important community, I think Norway would have stood at international level if we had been able to implement it. It is clearly on the Left's wish list. I have to say that we, ever since the last government, but also now, are very critical of the way through the ODA, we are bringing refugee money in as part of the 1 pst. goal. We think it doesn't belong there. We believe that this was also a way the red-greens used to turn up the numbers on assistance, so that they reached the 1 pst goal, while this is really money spent in Norway, which has nothing to do with assistance. I understand that the 1 pst goal is important to all of us who have done it, but it can't mean that we're going to put everything into that number. This has everyone here in the hall a bit of a broken past on, so I think this could be a chance to clean it up, and a chance to be a little bit principled on that very thing. It started with the fact that negotiating between parties with different priorities is considered a political theatre. Some defined the campaign as almost a comic field. An old man once said to me that it doesn't matter if you call it "casserole" or "casserole," but that the question is what's up in the pot. I think maybe we should look at the content rather than the political words you put on each other when the result is so similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e490	The slightly sluggish tone – may well call it – so far in the debate, may be due to the fact that the budget we are now adopting, well that is the budget in recent times, will perhaps some say, where there have been the least differences between what is agreed and the alternative here in the Chamber, which is due to the change of government. Away are the quite massive cuts in development policy, which the Progress Party had in opposition. Away are also the relatively powerful cuts from the Right, but away are also the large additions that were warned on the defense page. So the Christian People's Party and the Left have negotiated cut up to the level of the Red-Green Government. The red-greens' additions now are, after all, small. The differences are smaller than they have tended to be, presumably smaller than they are going to be too. The paradox is that we have a government with the Right and the Advance Party, but we adopted a budget at the level that SV, the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have opted for. Had to keep going that way. We can also say that we get a budget that is essentially in line with what the red-greens have put forward, that is, a good budget for the first year of the new government, although I am critical of some of the priorities that have been made. It's mostly due to refugees from Syria. It's not surprising to me that the Right Party and the Advance Party have done so. It's a little surprising that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not have the chance to give priority to it in the negotiations. There are other posts, too, that cut off cultural support and cut off the lines of Latin America and the United Nations. I would also like to mention the cut in the rainforest bet, although I assume that the government there will do what they have said, just over time will hold on to the level by 2020. I want to use the rest of my contribution to look at the actual differences in foreign policy in Norway, and at the debates that over time have divided us. There I am inspired by the contributions of the representatives Hareide and Norheim. I thought the representative Hareide was in the vicinity of a very good analysis of how Norwegian policy had contributed to what has happened in South Africa – a small but important contribution, I would say. There was an alliance between trade unionists, solidarity forces and the church, but we also have to add to the state. That's interesting. Those who have participated on TV have been able to watch the central addition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which appeared about the same way as the volunteers, with an activism that was official Norwegian policy, in support of South Africa. Yes, idealism and realism sometimes go together, but not always. In this case, there was also a lot of idealism inside the image. It is worth noting that the Right – and, of course, the Advance Party – were critical opponents when there was a ban on transporting oil to South Africa in Norway. When this ban was introduced in 1986, Kaci Kullmann Five said: ‘The result will be a deterioration in the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping.’ It was probably presumptuous, but it was idealistic right anyway. Then I thought that the representative Norheim, in saying that foreign policy is greater than ourselves, also invited to a little visit from the history of the Progress Party when it concerns South Africa, because it is documented. In 1963 Anders Lange wrote in the dog newspaper, she owns a newspaper: ‘Everyone in favour of black majority rule in South Africa is a traitor of the white race.’ This continues outwards in the 1970s. After Carl I. Hagen got into politics, he wrote in the party of the Progress Party rhetorical to the Right: ‘Does the Right wish to demand immediate majority voting with hottentots and bushmen in South Africa?’ [[...]] And Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, a long-standing foreign politician, continued to argue beyond the 1980s and 1990s that if the black majority gained power, "white security would be at risk" and that it would be "one party state and dictatorship". The South African agent Escel Rhoodie, who is now dead, wrote a book where he wrote, among other things. they in South Africa had contributed heavily to the Progress Party's election campaign in the 1970s. I think it might now be in place that the Progress Party apologizes for its historic role towards South Africa, and that they open their archives, as one has asked for insight, so that one can actually go into those stories.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e521	14 years ago, in March 1999, Nelson Mandela received standing applause in the main hall. It was a historic moment in our National Assembly. Today, a united world hails Mandela, the man who was not only a rugged South African statesman but also a moral leader for the whole world. We should honor his memory by reaching out for his ideals of peace, reconciliation, human dignity and tolerance. Nelson Mandela will be an inspiration for generations to come. Tomorrow, H.K.H. The Crown Prince and Prime Minister Erna Solberg at the Memorial of Nelson Mandela in Johannesburg. The contrast between Mandela's message of human dignity and the increasing humanitarian disaster in Syria could not have been greater. Thousands do not get the humanitarian aid they desperately need, even if the world community, including Norway, stands up. It is very serious and violates the most fundamental principles of humanitarian law, namely that the civilian population should have access to humanitarian assistance. Together with other countries, we are increasing international pressure to improve humanitarian access in Syria. We must ensure that chemical weapons are never used again against the civilian population in Syria. The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, OPCW, which will be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize tomorrow, plays a key role in getting chemical weapons out of Syria to ensure that they can never be used against the civilian population again. Norway will support the UN and the OPCW Fund for the destruction of Syrian chemical weapons of up to 90 million. kr. Norway contributes with a civil ship to transport chemical weapons out of Syria and a Norwegian frigate is on its way to participate in this demanding operation. In addition, Norway has a further 100 million. to remedy the precarious humanitarian situation in Syria and neighbouring countries. Norway is now the sixth largest donor to the area globally. The representative, Skei Grande, recalled the importance of a value-based foreign policy. What Nelson Mandela stood for was tolerance, and it was also a value-based policy. I also feel that promoting human rights and democracy must be a high priority. The demonstrators in Kiev's streets who protest against the violence of the rulers, and claim their right to participate in the most important decision of their country since the fall of the wall, must be listened to. It is also the case that President Janukovich must listen to his people when it comes to such an important decision. He cannot make a decision that is so crucial to the future of a country without consulting his own people – then we also see the result: One million people demonstrate in Kiev's streets against what they perceive as a decision that was made five to twelve in the closed room, without them being involved. This is unacceptable, and Norway has also said so. Civil and political rights are particularly important to the government. This applies both in our neighbourhoods and in countries receiving Norwegian aid. The rights are the same, and they apply to everyone. Even after the natural disaster in the Philippines, Norway was in a hurry to make extensive and effective humanitarian contributions. We are now the seventh largest humanitarian contributor to the country. Norwegian foreign policy is rooted in our global responsibility and in Norwegian interests. Both are necessary, they reinforce each other. The government will pursue a foreign policy that ensures Norwegian security, and where NATO is our main anchor in security policy. At the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting last week, there was a broad consensus on strengthening partnership policy and defence. At the same time as we have seen this, we are also contributing significantly globally – to poverty reduction and economic development, to stability, peace and reconciliation, to global climate challenges, and to the promotion of human rights and democracy. In the north, foreign and domestic policies, including the head of the Foreign and Defence Committee, meet. Norway's main international cause is the northern regions. We build capacity, strengthen partnerships and consolidate our position in the north in business development and trade, environment, security, development and research. As others pointed out, the results of the WTO conference in Bali last week are very happy – for us, for our trading partners and for the poorest countries. Such an agreement could increase the growth power of the global economy. This agreement provides the basis for an increase in value creation of NOK 6000 billion, is set out in a press release from the Director-General of the WTO, and it could create many millions of new jobs for the far too many young people in the world who are out of work. We only have two years left to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals. We have placed many of the greatest challenges of our time on the global agenda. Developing countries have reached a long time, but much remains to be done. We have not achieved the goal of basic education for all, child mortality is still too high, and a power cap is needed to improve female and motherhood. The UN Secretary-General has asked our Prime Minister to lead the group of drivers for the Millennium Goals. Norway will give high priority to its work. At the same time, the discussion is ongoing on the development objectives for the next 15 years. We were ambitious in 2000, and we have since halved extreme poverty. Now we have to go even further and work to eliminate all extreme poverty by 2030. War and conflict do more harm to development than anything else. No conflict country has achieved a single thousand-year target. War countries do not achieve economic growth and well-being for their inhabitants. Norway’s efforts for peace and reconciliation continue to be high and prioritised. The government will maintain a high level of assistance. The government suggests using over 1 billion. kr more on assistance in 2014 compared to 2013, and after the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left will be 1 pst. assistance of gross national income. But the debate on assistance can not only be about how much we spend, it must also be about what results we achieve, which several representatives have been involved in. That's why we're strengthening control of money use, stepping up the fight against corruption, and we're increasing the funding for education. Without education, no development. This government will commit itself to increasing the investment in education and in girls and education. Unfortunately, during the eight years of red-green government, the share of the aid budget spent on education was reduced quite sharply. This is a development of this government, with its cooperation parties in the Storting, the Christian People's Party and the Left, will turn around. We've started the work, but it's a bigger job to do. A comprehensive development policy must also give priority to trade, investment and jobs in poor countries: ‘You don’t get wealth without industrial development, but you don’t get business without the foundation in place. Assistance is not sustainable, but it can facilitate private investment, which will provide far greater value creation in a country.’ Erik Solheim said this to Dagbladet on November 29, 2011. I totally agree. The government is increasing support for economic development and clean energy in poor countries to over 1.4 billion. kr. This is a significant bet. Norway takes responsibility internationally. We have a clear and credible voice in the north, in Europe, in transatlantic cooperation, in war and disaster areas and in developing countries. The budgets adopted today by the Stortinget ensure an active Norwegian involvement. We also continue the good Norwegian tradition that, in terms of the broad lines of our foreign policy, there is a broad consensus, and that is something that I will also place great emphasis on continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e558	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e562	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, there is a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. I have registered that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has just been in the Middle East, and that he did a good job there. Therefore, it is not surprising that the government parties are not in a position to describe the situation in the Middle East that is relatively balanced. Government parties do not agree to state that there is an illegal residency espionage ‘on occupied land’. I would say that it is a very important signal that the government parties for the first time do not join such an observation. They also do not agree with what another comment says: ‘The violence from settlers towards the Palestinians is increasing’. This is according to reports from OHCHR. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: is this a more balanced foreign policy? What is the fact that the government parties do not want to be on this note?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e574	As the representative Huitfeldt is well-known, it is quite clear from the government's platform that the government will pursue a balanced Middle East policy, with a view to a two-state solution. A two-state solution must be based on the boundaries before 1967. That is, when, under the leadership of Minister of Foreign Affairs, John Kerry is now negotiating a final solution between Israel and Palestine, it contains the limits before 1967 and the possibility of land change. It also means finding a lasting solution for Jerusalem and for the Palestinian refugees, as well as a solution that guarantees Israel’s security in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e579	Is it no longer explicitly in a balanced foreign policy to say that there is an illegal residence expansion ‘on occupied land’? If it's not the government's policy to express it explicitly, it's a change of Norwegian Middle East policy. Is it also balanced Norwegian foreign policy not to point out that the violence against the Palestinians from the settlers ‘is increasing’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e584	Both Huitfeldt and I have been sitting long enough on Stortinget to know that if you don't join all the comments that other parties promote in a committee position, and you have your own comments that cover the same situation, that doesn't mean you necessarily disagree with all of those points. But for what the representative addresses. In the case of a future agreement between Israel and Palestine, by which Minister of Foreign Affairs Kerry plays a significant role in the negotiation of, there is no doubt that a solution will have to be found where the settlement ceases in the areas defined as part of the Palestinian territories. This is based on the boundaries before 1967 and a land change. In the case of violence, I would refer to my statements on the last day, when I, among other things, took up the situation of Palestinian children who are being imprisoned, and violence that is being committed against them, which I have put down hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e593	In his speech, the Foreign Minister welcomed the WTO outcome in Bali. Even if he wasn't there himself, I want to ask a question related to online it. There's different statements after the compromise in Bali. It is good that we have proper, good rules for international trade – we are all followers of. However, the WTO is not established to achieve fair trade, to reduce climate, environment and food sovereignty, but to liberalise world trade and to reduce barriers to trade. I thought it was bad that an order to abolish social arrangements, that one did not exercise the right to food, and that there would be treason about penal measures against programs where a caretaker and feeding them like starvation. What will the Foreign Minister do when there are new negotiations in Geneva? Will he be on their side of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e600	The agreement reached in Bali implies that all the 160 Member States acceded to this agreement. This is an agreement that is also very good for the world's developing countries. Building up the costs of transferring goods from one country to another and cutting forms and red tape may also reduce corruption. In addition, Norway has now gone out and promised to contribute 30 million. kr to help developing countries to implement rapidly the improvements in their trading facilities and to build up unnecessary forms and bureaucracy. With regard to the agreement that was concluded, it is by no means an obstacle to continuing to assist with food free of charge. You can also build up the food stock for difficult food-related situations in the future. Where in the debate this has appeared, and where you have this information, I do not know, but they are wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e607	The left has been critical of the way you book, when you look at the costs of refugees, the money we spend in Norway, as part of the aid. We have always seen this as a way of hiding that you do not grant enough assistance, or at least that you are trying to sell money into something for which the money is really not meant. I thought I would ask the Foreign Minister if he does not agree with me that this is a way of accounting that we really shouldn't do, and that one should be honest about the use of money: this has nothing to do with aid, it has to do with our obligations as a refugee nation, and that's the money we spend in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e614	It has been a long practice in Norway and in other countries to mention the aid budget the cost of receiving refugees. We're applying less to this now than it's been done in other periods. Now let's use a little over 2 billion. kr. Under other governments, over 3 billion have been used. kr. The OECD and others who set the framework for what can be approved as assistance state that, for example: The development budget can be used to help Syrian refugees in Norway. But it is important to have an overall strategy. Norway is – as I also mentioned in my post – the sixth largest contributor in helping Syria’s neighbouring country, which is now receiving more than 2 million refugees. We are also spending a lot on humanitarian aid, which we want to get into Syria. In addition, the government has decided that Norway should receive 1000 refugees to remedy the situation in Syria’s neighbouring country. And that's what we're using.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e621	Everything I have heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs say about the Middle East, both during the visit and before, has our patents – very good – and offensive. I believe that the reason why the representative Anniken Huitfeldt takes this up and that several of us are worried is uncertainty – whether it is so now that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party will use their influence to turn a little towards Middle East policy, even if the Foreign Minister does not want it. What's in the comment that they don't want to be in, and not right, is that we ‘records the continuation of the illegal residence expansion in occupied countries’. And on the other hand, ‘The human rights situation is worrying. In the Israeli-controlled C area’ – i.e. the areas on the West Bank which Israel controls approximately. 60 pst. by – ‘there has been an increase in the demolition of dwellings and infrastructure. The violence from settlers against the Palestinians is increasing.’ I checked with OHCHR – this is in line with their latest report. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree that the election and demolition of housing have been increasing, and that the bus industry is continuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e636	As I also said to the representative, Huitfeldt, the government's policy is clear. We have a balanced Middle East policy. We are working for a two-state solution and are fully committed to John Kerry's plans to create lasting peace between Israel and Palestine. I have also said, when I was in Israel and Palestine, that Israel should now absolutely refrain from implementing new settlements, which I believe will complicate the peace process that is in the middle of it. Norway will continue the support we have for the Palestinian territories, which are in a difficult economic situation. Not least, we were asked to do this by Minister of Foreign Affairs Kerry, who now believes that this is an important prerequisite for achieving this. But the word balanced obviously means that, in this situation, we must also focus on Israel's security interests. We know that they have been attacked, among others. by rockets from Hamas, Gaza. We also know that they have faced attacks from Hezbollah. If Norway is to play a role, we must be balanced in this situation. I feel that I am through what I have now also said in Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e649	I thought it was a balanced answer – probably not on my question, but it was balanced. It is also the comment that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party would not be in. But let me ask you something else in my last line. What's happening in Ukraine is dramatic. I very much appreciate the fact that the foreign minister went there and was so clear in his penance – went out, as the representative Schei Grande said. Yesterday I myself attended a demonstration that Ukrainians in Norway arranged in front of the Stortinget together with Norwegian human rights organisations. I must say it was strong to see how strongly they felt on the body. There are a few thousand Ukrainians in Norway. For them, it is very important to see the commitment of the foreign minister and we parliamentarians, and that we share in supporting their human rights right now. They are particularly upset at the power of protestors and journalists, of course. My question is: can the Foreign Minister consider taking an initiative, for example: together with other Nordic countries, so that we send human rights observers who can stay in Kiev over time in Ukraine and observe what is happening, and be among the international forces that contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e660	I also saw the statements by the representative Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell yesterday, which I think were timely. What is very regrettable in Ukraine now is that a decision that really affects the future of young people in Ukraine is taken without any democratic debate. Now you have to figure out what happened on that Saturday a little over a week ago, where violence was used against demonstrators and journalists, and where there are still many people who are injured. Thorbjørn Jagland has taken on a role in this and has been in Ukraine and Kiev, and I also think that the OSCE can send observers to follow this situation now. I think we should take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e667	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e670	For the first time in recent history, a long-term defence plan has also been followed up in budgetary terms. Norway has a modern and deliverable defence with a high operational capability. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his speech, one of our frigates is on the way out to contribute to an important mission to destroy Syria's chemical weapon, while another frigate is back and can report completed mission after being in the Gulf of Aden. Three things are particularly important for the Workers' Party in defence policy. Firstly, implement the long-term plans and strengthen operational capability. Secondly, that the huge investment in new fighter aircraft is also being followed up, so that we guarantee the Norwegian defence industry. Thirdly, full pressure in the work of competence and the important job of caring for our veterans. Norway is in a special position in how we have been able to convert and streamline defence in a period of good budgets. Many of our European partners have pushed forward similar challenges and are now forced to cut short-term and dramatic cuts in the financial crisis. Norway has made similar decisions because we have been wise and forward-looking, not because we have been forced to do so. The results have been generated through long-term and comprehensive renewal work, major structural and organisational changes and a broad political will and ability to invest in the defence sector in the long term. I would particularly like to highlight the employees of the Defence Agency, who have done a formidable job. Another decisive success factor has been that both the Storting, the Government and the defence sector themselves have maintained and followed up the overall and long-term plans. The Red-Green Government has consistently followed up adopted plans with the necessary proposals for appropriations and increased defence budgets at a time when most allies are reducing. The Ministry of Defence also states in its evaluation of the achievement of the target for the last period that Norway has received a defence with modern material in most areas, which can react faster, fly more, sail more and practice more. This sustained commitment to Defence has given a very competent army with more than ten years of experience from Afghanistan, Norway has got one of Europe's most modern marines, and we have a capable air defence with F-16 today. The Labour Party supports an increase of 7 million. SEK to the Home Guard in addition to the amount of 83 million. kr our government proposed. We also give our support for the Coast Guard being strengthened by 13.9 million. kr. Overall, we have received a defence with a significantly stronger operational capability. Nevertheless, we can agree on a continuous focus on further strengthening operational capability and that work on the revision of defence and emergency plans continues to be a high priority in 2014. The military capabilities of the defence have been enhanced by increased training and training activities for all defence and home security sectors as well as by significant modernisation of military material. The government of Stoltenberg started the defense investment of the times in new fighter aircraft, investments that will provide a historic capacitylift for the entire Defense. The investment in new fighter aircraft will provide a significantly strengthened capacity to take care of our large sea areas in the north. The dictator Roy Jacobsen said it so nicely: ‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north.’ As a Finnmarking, I'd say he's absolutely right. There are in the north many of the most important interests the defense is supposed to defend. The purchase of new fighter aircraft will have a major impact on increased industrial cooperation for the Norwegian defence industry, and I can promise that we will follow closely that the work on positioning the Norwegian defence industry still has a great focus. I would particularly like to stress the bridge phase contract for the further development of JSM, and that we are following up on the integration of APEX. At the same time, we assume that the strict operational requirements we set for our aircraft when they are delivered are followed up. The reform of competence is referred to as the third phase of the transition. That's right, and that's also important. Now the job is to be done. The implementation of the objectives of the reform of competences and the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations must therefore be followed up by the new government. We have the same expectations for the performance of our veterans. It must happen with full force, simply because they deserve it. I would also like to take the opportunity to greet those who are on duty, and not least thank those who have been on duty for Norway. The defence must be an insurance for our own security and the future of our children. We're going to have a defense for our time. We're there today because we made the right choices yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e697	The chairperson of the Committee opened today's debate by quoting Nelson Mandela's praiseworthy words about Norway. I think it was a poor choice of the great man's many wonderful quotations. Norwegian self-righteousness doesn't need Mandela's help, the world doesn't need Norwegian self-crust. The world needs us to make our resources constantly available. The budget to be adopted today, which Mr Solhjell just called essentially a good budget, will provide the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Norad and the development actors with the resources needed to carry out in a good way the tasks of the United Kingdom and the Government as objectives in this area: the objective that development policy should contribute to increased democratisation, the realization of human rights and that people should be able to work long-term out of poverty, as in the old saying that it will not be long-term help to give people a fish, they must learn to fish. In that light, I am pleased that with this budget, we are increasing the capital grant to Norfund. Investment and growth in business provide jobs and development. The draft budget increases Norway's allocation to the World Bank, the International Development Fund. This is precisely the fund for the poorest countries and is both the most effective and the most important multilateral channel for aid to the 80 poorest countries in the world. It is, and should be, a high level of Norwegian international assistance. Yes, the level of this budget is over 1 billion. More than our assistance was in the budgetary balance for 2013 – about 1 percentage of GNI, because a good budget proposal was even better here the other day. It's worth noting that the share we've used for aid in five of the last seven years has been under 1 pst. – without the red-greens having lifted up, as now, for that reason. I am particularly pleased that the education aid, which had been reduced over the last two major periods, has now become a clear area of commitment in Norwegian development policy, and that the government is now aiming at Norway taking international leadership in the fight to strengthen the education of girls. This appears, both in the strengthening of funds to UNICEF and to the Global Partnership for Education. With this draft budget, this government has clearly shown the direction we will follow in relation to the education of girls. We have increased Norway's contribution to GPE by 20 pst. - It's a clear message. This is the first step to follow up the Health Declaration, which says that the government should give priority to the education of girls in poor countries, and take a global lead in the work of education for all. The whole ten pst. the child of the world does not have a school offer, reports UNICEF. There is reason to see this in connection with the conflict areas of the world and our humanitarian aid, for 50 pst. of the children who do not attend school in the world today live in conflict areas. Another dimension that is also close to the Right's heart is the quality of school, both at home, of course, but also in a world perspective. Unfortunately, today there are more children who go to school and do not learn enough than there are children who do not go to school. Today, 250 million children can neither read nor write when they start in fourth grade. There is overwhelming evidence that girls’ education and health are the most important single factors in achieving other development goals. In sub-Saharan Africa, infant mortality is estimated to have been reduced by up to 40 pst. if their mothers had been in high school. To bet on women – both on health and on education is a good idea for the children of the world. It has positive ring-effects. Girls with education have children later in life. Children of mothers with schooling are also more likely to attend school. And the education of girls is also crucial for women's participation in politics and social life. I am also pleased that Norway has been so clear in our support for Security Resolution 1325, and therefore recognised the importance of women's participation in peace operations and processes in order to ensure lasting and sustainable peace. In the future, it is also important that we be equally clear in terms of targeting the rights of people with disabilities – not only at home with making available and facilitating, but also as a cross-cutting theme in all areas of assistance. Disability rights are human rights. Norway must also become a leading country in this area, both with our votes and with our actions. Lack of respect for human rights affects marginal groups hardest and reinforces inequalities. Somebody needs a little bit more to get the same amount!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e720	A wise man, who has a function in this hall for the day, once said to me: You don't get re-elected to the Stortinget by fighting only for criminal care. And with all possible respect, maybe that's the way it is when it comes to foreign policy too – a topic that in Norwegian everyday life is too rarely affected because we're busy with the close things. We see it through ads, single campaigns and, of course, in media postings in the news. That is why it is good to have at least one very large debate on the budget, where you are clear about what you want with foreign policy. There are plenty of themes to debate: we are discussing the EU, Afghanistan and other challenges that are close to us. Sometimes I would have wanted more people to participate in the debate, because Norwegian foreign and defence policy had earned it – simply because it is fundamental for all of us. The problem or challenge of foreign and defence policy is not to find anything to do — it is simply simply to focus on the most important issues. We have challenges more than even Norway will be able to address them. Then our job will be to make sure that we take the right grip in the right places. You can discuss quantity – that you want the widest possible approach, but sometimes I think quality actually out competition quantity. Of course, the role of the UN will also be important for the new government. I had the pleasure of being in the UN General Assembly a few weeks in the fall, and there is no doubt that many put their trust in Norway, that Norway will continue to contribute with great appropriations to help the world's population where they are struggling the most. I'm sure we'll do that. But that this government is even more clear on the goal achievement, is just a plus for me and nothing minus. When we look at the big world, when we look at Africa, Afghanistan and the Middle East, there is no doubt that even if we do the best we can, it will be little compared to all the challenges that exist. I am also pleased that the government has a clear focus on the fact that education and women and children's rights are among the most important. A everyday day where it's about surviving from today until tomorrow does something to you. If we can help more people raise their eyes and think about other things, it'll only be positive. Let me also say that it is appropriate to give thanks to all those who work to improve their daily lives for others: those who work in non-governmental organisations, those who work through public organisations or agencies, and not least those who work in Defence. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was aware that NATO is the carrier of Norwegian security policy. At the same time, defence is regularly faced with new challenges, not least their role. What should the defense be dimensioned for? Should it be dimensioned unilaterally for Norwegian security policy? Is it going to protect us from a possible enemy in the east, or are there any other things that are important to us? In everyday life, I want to say that maybe the Home Security is the most important thing we have. When the justice sector needs extra help and asks the defense for assistance, it is often the case that the volume of Home Security is what you actually need. That is why I am pleased that the government has chosen to invest in and strengthen the appropriations for the Defence, and not least for the Home Office. To do a good job in defence policy, cost control is alpha and omega. I'm glad to see that we have a defence minister who is clear, and who dares say no to things. I registered the play this weekend about Swedish-Norwegian cooperation on ARCHER, and Norway has said that this may not be the best for us. I believe that if there is any policy needed, it is that you have government councils who dare to stand upright and say from just such things rather than go in circles and say well and have and perhaps. I also registered that others have been on the fighter flight purchase. It's also an amazingly big investment. When Stortinget dealt with it, it was extremely clear that it was necessary to buy back the corresponding value when buying a fighter plane. I think that's a challenge we're going to face – not just this election period, but another three-four, at least – if we ever get up to that level. But here I expect the Minister of Defence to have a clear ambition. The northern regions have been mentioned. Of course, the northern regions are important. Our future lies largely in the north. I'm sure we'll take care of that, both defence and security policy. In this way it is good that the Svalbard budget was mentioned here. Personally, I hope you'll see even more about the possibilities of Svalbard. I think you should see the possibilities of establishing an international rescue hub on Svalbard, because we have a logistics on Svalbard that few others in the area, if any, have. Let me also say two words about Afghanistan. It's approaching a choice in Afghanistan, which will be the acidiest of what goes on and what doesn't go on. The main challenge in Afghanistan remains, at my discretion, corruption and anti-corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e746	When hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians in these days and hours demonstrate in the streets for a European future for their country, it is an expression that the European integration process is deepening and embracing widely in Europe. Norway is part of this integration project, and we contribute to it. The EEA Agreement gives us access to a single internal market with 30 other countries. When we participate in this internal market, we contribute to economic development both for ourselves and for the European Union. It's the profit of free trade. The debate last month on my statement on important EU and EEA issues showed that there is a great deal of excitement in this room about our participation in the internal market. At the same time, as the Committee also points out in its position, large parts of Europe are still affected by an economic crisis. Norwegian enterprises have also faced challenges as a result of the crisis. It is in our interest that we are doing well in Europe. Major inequalities in the internal market can create imbalances that affect us all. This is an important reason why we are making a significant contribution to social and economic development and cohesion in Europe. The EEA funds are a solidarity contribution designed to contribute to such cohesion and to improve the capacity of beneficiary countries to exploit the opportunities of the internal market. 15 European countries receive funds through current EEA funding schemes with a total framework – at today’s krone price – of 15 billion. kr for the period 2009-2014. The profile of the contributions in each beneficiary country is the result of an agreement between the EU, Norway and the other donor countries and the beneficiary countries. These are priorities for the current period which have broad political support from this Chamber. Many of the recipient countries are struggling financially. The weakest groups in our recipient countries are affected by public inadequacies and high unemployment: the Roma are Europe's largest minority and a vulnerable group socially, economically and culturally. By means of the EEA funds, Norway has committed about 300 million. to actions and projects in 10 of the recipient countries. Over 1.1 billion. kr is devoted to civil society, where we among others. support non-governmental organisations providing welfare and social services. Norway is one of the largest contributors in absolute numbers to civil society in Central Europe. In its management review carried out this year, the National Audit Office acknowledges the work done to strengthen the objective and performance management of the new management model for EEA funds. The national audit also concludes that the EEA funds contribute to strengthening cooperation and contact between Norway and the recipient countries – a central dimension of the EEA funds. Norway should remain willing to make financial contributions when our current financial instrument expires on 30 April 2014. At the same time, it is essential that we ensure a satisfactory agreement relating to Norwegian fishing quotas for the EU. Norway has a number of duty-free allowances that expire at the same time as the financial instruments, and negotiations should therefore be seen in the context. With regard to the arrangement and priorities of Norwegian future contributions, we will take on board the experience we have gained from the current period and, of course, also the priorities that will be worthwhile in the years to come. The areas of action will be defined in closer dialogue with the beneficiary countries. In this context, we will also focus on further strengthening bilateral cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries. Negotiations with the EU are expected to start in a short time, and the government will inform and consult the bodies of Storting in an appropriate manner during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e775	The Council of State will have wide back coverage so that we will continue to contribute when he is about to enter into new negotiations, but I beg him to note a little grinning remark from the previous committee. The EU must be informed that the wallet is not necessarily wide open when the Council of State returns to the Chamber and must have support for the outcome of the negotiations. It may be good to have them in the negotiations. It's meant to be a positive support. I have a question that concerns something else. The representative, Halleraker, said that the government has placed the list high in European policy, and showed that there is an ambition for more and earlier involvement of the Stortinget. It's positive. The European Committee is the government's consultative body, and I assume that of course it will continue. But in what other ways does the Council of State think that the Stortinget should be involved in designing Norwegian positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e782	I would like to thank Mr Hansen for his good arguments in the discussions with the European Union. We've already done that, and we're going to continue that line. In terms of ways of consulting and discussing important EU issues with the Storting on, we have started a work and a discussion related to different models that are conceivable. There have also been previous discussions in the EEA on new forms of work on EU and EEA issues. That's something we want to get back to, and of course we also want to have a dialogue with the Storting even on which forms of work are most useful in this context. But our starting point is clear: we want more discussion because EEA issues are so important for Norwegian policy and for Norwegian everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e789	We have to take European Councils seriously and on the floor and count on him to involve the Storting more than has so far been the case, for an urgent meeting of the European Committee on Friday afternoon, when the parties were in budgetary discussions in the Committee on Budgets, perhaps not optimal in this way. But my question is still about something else. So in the Nordic region, we've worked a lot to remove frontier barriers. Is it possible – or what does the Council of State think – that we can cooperate better between Nordic countries in the implementation of the EU directive? We have seen examples of the fact that, because we have not cooperated well enough, once they have been implemented, the EU directives have actually led to greater barriers to borders and new barriers between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e797	Our Nordic neighbours are our closest friends in the EU context. It is with those we often have the closest consultations on all kinds of issues that arise when EEA Directives are to be incorporated. We should definitely look at ways of anchoring, strengthening and deepening cooperation in a practical way. I have had discussions with both my Swedish and my Danish colleague on how we can deepen and strengthen our practical cooperation on these issues and take this good advice from the representative Nybakk into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e802	Grinded comments from the Committee may help in the negotiations. In that case, we hope that the EU negotiators will not read the lines of the representative, Mr Hansen, from here in the Chamber, and that some of the effects of them will disappear. I'll ask you something completely different, just about Ukraine. We have for several rounds here are within the dramatic things that are happening there. There is no doubt that the EU has a key role to play in this, because from different cancers in Ukraine there is a strong desire – in a slightly different way – to come closer to the EU, and what demands you have and how the EU approaches it can be important. In addition, EU countries, together with Norway and other countries, are the countries that may now be able to show their presence and visibility and contribute, for example. by human rights observers or in other ways. I wonder if the European Minister, Prime Minister or others has raised Ukraine with their colleagues in the EU, or whether they have plans to do so to coordinate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e811	While the issue of Norway’s relationship with Ukraine is a matter of concern to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is no doubt that it is also important in a European political light. In the margins of the EEA Council in November, I had a conversation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Presidency, the Lithuanian Minister of Foreign Affairs, about the Ukraine issue, not least because it was during the hours that the news began coming from Kiev about where it was. One of the discussions we have had is whether Norwegian experience with the EEA Agreement could be useful to communicate to Ukraine if – and hopefully when – we will once conclude an association agreement. There will be goodwill on the Norwegian side. It is a dialogue we have with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e816	We've got a blue-blue government that's more EU-friendly. This is how the EU assesses its country of presidencies in Lithuania. It may well have been registered by others. In Europe, we now look for countries with large cuts in the public sector. It's a little bit of an economy. Governments have stated that the economic situation in European countries has not been resolved by transfers of funds. On the question of means of assistance, the government proposed cutbacks in its budget, claiming that this is the result of a census. If so, fewer funds will produce better results in that field. The government also has the same attitude to the EEA funds, i.e. that reduced funds will produce better results, or is the holding different from that of the EU than it is at the poorest in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e825	The government has indicated that Norway is willing to continue and renew our EEA funds. We have also expressed to the EU that when, for the first time in its history, the EU reduces its budgets, it is not natural to expect strong increases from the Norwegian side. At the same time, we are concerned that this is not only negotiations on the EEA funds, but also negotiations on fishing quotas. Norwegian market access for fishing quotas is very important to us. That's why it's important to see the negotiations as a whole, and that's from the point of view of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e832	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e835	In June 1991, I was in an auditorium at a university in Durban, South Africa. It was ANC's first free congress inside South Africa in 30 years. I came straight from the king's and queen's mission – that was the same year – when Hovland's psalm «This is the day that the Lord has done» was expounded. Then I came to Durban, to the ANC's first free congress, which was opened with instant and Scriptural reading: «This is the day that the Lord made» – and it was indeed. Norway’s support for anti-apartheid work has been raised several times before today. This also applies to aid for refugees and resistance within the country. It put seriously Norwegian development policy on the international agenda, not to say the map. Norway and Sweden went into the brink of training and schooling refugees in the front line countries. We also know the stories of Norwegian diplomats carrying cash across the border to South Africa. I also want to show you what Solhell said about it. Then I want to say to Sylvi Graham: in fact, I think we can be proud of the work we have done, and how in several contexts we have paved the way for development policy and conflict resolution. We still have great respect for the work we are doing on both conflict resolution and development. This has given us goodwill in the United Nations system. We've gone ahead to secure 1 pst. of aided gross national income. It may have been one of the reasons why we were listened to when Jens Stoltenberg was one of the prime ministers who was picked up to contribute to the reforms of the United Nations organisations at country level – another important work. Our people who were there said that the new government chose to go away from 1 pst. – this has something to do with signals – not to mention that they cut in the allocation of the World Food Fund in the middle of the Syrian crisis. Now we have recorded that after the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we continue with 1 pst. And now I assume that it happens in the next budgets. An area where Norway has made a real difference is to ensure better conditions for women in the poorest countries. Sissel Rønbeck, former staging representative and state councillor, once talked about the long, long, long earring that women have gotten up through history. Today, women in many countries in the south and in some Islamic, fundamentalist countries are exposed to the long earache. HIV, AIDS, genital mutilation, high maternity mortality and oppression are just a few examples. Norway took special responsibility for the thousand-year targets of four and five, female health and the fight against infant mortality. Erik Solheim became historical when he presented the world's absolute first big-time report on women, development and rights, on the initiative of the Stortinget. The fight for women’s sexual and reproductive health faces many obstacles. In the United Nations, Catholic and Islamic countries join forces against prevention and safe abortions, i.e. for unsafe abortions, to put it a little on the verge. I expect Norway's firm and strong commitment to women's sexual and reproductive health to continue under the current Minister for Foreign Affairs. In order to prevent children from dying in the first years of their lives, we also depend on Mother's health and that Mother gets to live – in fact, that she survives both pregnancy and birth. Ågot Valle and I were with the United Nations Development Programme in Mozambique – there is something the United Nations Development Programme does sometimes, they invite Nordic parliamentarians along. When we visited Mozambique, we also visited a UN-supported clinic for young women. They sat patient and waited to come in, with children in their stomach or on their laps, or both. Several of them were HIV infected. A nurse looked at us with a fixed glance and said that the worst thing was to tell them that they are going to die. There's a lot of mess – a lot we're going to do – about developments for women globally. An area where Norway has also contributed to the results is through the vaccine alliance GAVI. In cooperation with the GAVI, inter alia: UNICEF saved five million children in a few years. Hardly any other assistance organisation may refer to such results. Actually, here Gavi is unique. The Committee is concerned that GAVI is extending the vaccination offer over time so that as many children as possible can be reached and diseases can be eradicated. That is probably not the answer to reducing contributions to UNICEF and other UN organisations, because UNICEF is today a crucial partner of the GAVI. So I noticed Trine Skei Grande's posts on the relationship between vaccination and healthcare. I am very much in agreement with her in what she is saying, but I believe that there is no contradiction between contributing to the establishment of a broad health system and continuing to ensure the vaccination of young and poor children. There is growing unrest in NATO circles over the partly powerful cuts in the defence budgets that take place in the vast majority of NATO countries. Only three countries in Europe do not reduce their defence expenditure or have done so in the last ten years: Poland, Turkey and Norway. The completely necessary reorganization from an innovation defence to an effective and flexible response defence has not led to budget cuts. On the contrary – we now have a defence with an increased operational capacity in relation to today’s threats, and the defence budgets are increasing. The Government and the Stortinget fully financed the long-term defence plan and reviewed it on 14 June 2012. Our fellow Members in the neighbouring countries envy us. For them, NATO’s ‘Smart Defence’ and the EU’s ‘Pooling and Sharing’ are bloody and necessary. The Norwegian defence is relatively in a privileged position to continue a robust and timely defence. Last year, the Right proposed to strengthen the defence operating budget by 616 million. kr. So the increase is going to be 13.9 million. kr to the Coast Guard, which is supported by the Workers' Party. But it may be tempting to ask the Minister for Defence, who will have the floor: Has she now changed her mind, and is of the opinion that this is the right framework in terms of the structure we now have and the work we are going to take into? On 1 January 2014, the Minister of Defence will take over the Presidency of the Nordic Defence Cooperation (NORDEFCO) from Finland, perhaps the most dynamic cooperation between the Nordic countries, a practical and flexible cooperation that takes place in spite of the respect for the political anchors and alliances of each country. On 4 December, the Nordic Defence Minister's meeting was held in NORDEFCO, Helsinki. A vision was adopted with policy guidelines for Nordic defence cooperation up to 2020, including confirmation that capacity development in 2020 will be an integral part of Nordic contributions to international engagements, as well as even stronger cooperation on exercises and on aircraft and maritime surveillance. It is also interesting that the declaration states that the Nordic countries will cooperate on forces for NATO Response Force and for the EU Battle Groups. I have also today submitted an interpellation to the Council of State on Nordic defence cooperation. Finally, the Stoltenberg report – which is about Stoltenberg the elderly – called for increased Nordic cooperation on defence and foreign policy. There is also some of the things that work well today. What could possibly be a further challenge — as the Stoltenberg report also addressed — is increased embassies cooperation, not only, necessarily, co-location, but actually cooperation between the Nordic countries. Today we have co-location in Berlin and Myanmar, and maybe we get it in New York. I assume that this will continue, and that it will not stop in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e869	It is gratifying to note that the government has already made good progress in implementing a more active policy towards our close friends and trading partners in Europe after a short period of time. Moreover, it is very positive that Norway now has a more offensive European policy than in many years. Prime Minister Erna Solberg recently visited EU Presidents and Heads of State in several EU countries. It shows the importance the government attaches to good relations with the EU as well as to bilateral relations with countries in Europe, and there is reason to stress the importance of the visit to Chancellor Angela Merkel, for Germany is the engine for lifting Europe out of the economic crisis. In addition to being a quota into the internal market, the EEA Facility shall contribute to strengthening Norway’s relations with the recipient countries and is therefore an important instrument in Norwegian foreign policy. Although Norway is outside the EU, we have broad and deep relations with Europe. An active European policy means working systematically to bring about the uptake of policy priorities and to be present in the policy-making areas and by strengthening bilateral relations. The EEA Agreement also has a significant impact on Norwegian domestic policy – for Norwegian municipalities and regions, on business and on the security of Norwegian jobs. It is therefore essential that we be in the forefront of decisions in the EU – that we succeed in getting early into processes that will have consequences for Norway through the EEA. At the same time, it is also important that the interests of all the departments concerned are properly coordinated. The contribution to Europe through the EEA funds shows that Norway is a stable and reliable partner contributing to overall economic objectives and closer cooperation with EU countries. As the Council of State Helgesen said, many of the beneficiary countries are struggling — especially youth unemployment is alarming. The contribution of $1.50. Therefore, funding for civil society with a focus on non-governmental organisations is incredibly important. Through the EEA funds, Norway has established a comprehensive framework agreement with the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is the strategic partner and the EEA contribution is instrumental in promoting key societal values such as strengthening human rights and democracy. EEA funds support projects that contribute to the promotion of tolerance, combating discrimination and include groups that are economically, socially and culturally vulnerable, such as: the largest minority in Europe: the Roma. The aim is for these groups to be better able to address their own challenges in the long term. Climate change and biodiversity loss are the main environmental challenges in the EU. Therefore, a significant share, in fact over 30 p.p., of the EEA funds goes to programmes for green innovation and biodiversity. 900 million. SEK has been set aside for green business development, in cooperation with Innovation Norway and Norwegian enterprises, among others. to provide a basis for new jobs. EEA-funded research funds have also been established in six countries. 2014 will be the last year of the current programming period and with this budget the amount of the Norwegian contribution in 2014 will be approximately 3.31 billion. kr. With such amounts, it is important to ensure that the funds reach those for which they are intended and for the right purpose. As the largest contributor in the EEA, with a share of 97 p.m., Norway has therefore strengthened risk management in order to ensure quality and good performance and reduce the risk of corruption and other abuses. Negotiations shall begin with regard to the EEA Financial Mechanism. Although new EU countries come into existence, it has not been given that the Norwegian quota in the EEA should increase significantly. It is therefore reassuring that both the Prime Minister and the EU Minister have just emphasised this, and that Norway has the aim of ensuring a level of the EEA quota in the future that is proportionate to the budgets of the EU countries. Finally, as a comment on a previous post here and for the sake of order: Although it may not be appropriate to the rhetoric of the opposition, the government is continuing its efforts on the World Food Programme from 2013 to 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e897	The development of the defence sector in Norway is anchored in comprehensive plans, where the overall consensus on the main lines and the direction has been broad. Together with a long-term perspective, this has produced good results under changing governments. At the same time, there has been disagreement about some key assumptions. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government states that security in everyday life and enhanced preparedness is one of the eight areas of government activity. The government believes that there is a need for continued increased appropriations, for modernisation and for reform to ensure that we have a credible threshold defence with high response capabilities in practice that can address changing challenges. But the changes in the defence are not finished, there are still demanding challenges, and I would like to highlight two areas in particular: a major change in the air defence, which is now under way, and a shift on the personnel and competences side, which the Committee deserves to make in its position, which is an area in which it is important to keep an eye on. There is no doubt that the very most important resource of defence is the personnel. This applies both to those who do homework every day, and to those who spend every day in some demanding international operations. Those people who sacrifice their own security every day for us to be safe deserve real honor. We must ensure that a maximum share of resources goes to real and concrete operational supplies that underpin the main rationale of defence, namely to contribute to the country's security and security. It is precisely in this perspective that the government has announced, as we have announced throughout the campaign and in the setting of the long-term plan, that we want to go through some of the assumptions and bases of the long-term plan. As the representative Navarsete might remember, the government she herself was part of was unable to create a majority of the long-term defence plan – the current – and therefore there is a need to do some of the reviews that we talked about at the time. The government has not promised a single rematch, on the contrary, but precisely because this is such a big puzzle, where we're going to put things on the table that have to do with the entire future of Defence, economically and operationally, it's absolutely vital that we do the right things in the right order and at the right pace. In some areas, assumptions have changed, and already under the previous government, changes have been made to the life of QRA in Bodø. It was shifted to 2019, among others as a result of a faster technical departure than expected. I believe that this type of adjustment would be irresponsible not to take into account now that we are conducting a continuous long-term planning, and we have a responsibility to unload in the port a successful conversion of the Air Force – finally. That's why it's important that we make these assessments. We are now doing that in the department, and if there are any conclusions that require a change in the Storting, we will of course come back to Stortinget with that. We do not know anything about that yet, but we have said that we believe it is responsible to carry out those assessments, precisely because there are so many changes that have occurred since the Stortinget took its decisions in 2012. As many have been involved, the government wants to strengthen the exercise of five troops in the Home Guard forces. We want to cover that by permanently moving money from top management staff and support functions. It will therefore be a force of effort from the HV districts of Lutvann, Bergen, Værnes, Bjerkvik and Porsangermoen. We are also proposing to increase the appropriations for the Coast Guard by 13.9 million. kr, i.e. that the number of patrol days increases both in the external and internal coastguard. We are permanently financing the National Standby of the Marine Hunter Command. In addition, the government requests permission to order an additional six F-35 aeroplanes. We make bridge phase contracts with Kongsberg for the further development of JSM and come back to Stortinget when it's time to sign new contracts. The special compensation scheme for injured veterans is important to the government. I also thank you for the commendable review that has become part of the government in the settings of Prop. 207 S for 2012–2013. For all persons outside this room, the concept of'surcharge' is unlikely to give rise to a particularly large heart rate, but for the veterans affected it will be essential to ensure that they receive the compensation they have been granted in due time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e914	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e917	The long-term plan was well placed in the posts of the Council of State, and it was only to be lacking. The defence has also been through a significant shift in recent years, and we have regained a defence with a high operational capability. It is also worth noting that the previous long-term plan was fully funded for crowns. Despite that, last year we had a budgetary procedure, and then the then head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, today's Minister of Defence from the Right, said: ‘We are willing to pay for the government’s decisions as opposed to their own.’ They proposed to strengthen the operational budget of the Defence for 2013 with a total of 616 million. kr, which the team spokespersons said would provide ‘greater operational capability, more exercise and more training’. But there is a long way between word and action. What we see today is that we get an increase of only 13.9 million. kr. Of course, we are positive about that, but my question is: Will the defence budget adopted today provide ‘greater operational capacity, more exercise and more training’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e932	I see the government in the short time that was available to make an additional proposition, has just provided more operational capability, more practice and training. We focus on what will increase operational capability. So we've communicated at the same time that this is a sobering first step. It's also an attempt to close the gap between rhetoric and realities, which, to the extent that the previous government was an exponent for. For example, the Coast Guard had a number of sailing days that were below the ambitions of the previous government itself had set for the Coast Guard, and for the fulfilment of the long-term plan. But it's quite obvious that there are still imbalances between the factors here. Now we're going into these balance points between structure, resources, tasks, but also between investment and operations. Here's an interesting point, which I'm absolutely sure the Workers' Party agrees with, namely that it doesn't just keep having, for example. five frigates and sail according to what's the given plan, if that actually means we don't take advantage of these amazingly fine frigates well enough. We have to go inside and look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e939	I think we'll agree on the frigates. But I'm going to start with a quote, and it's from St.prp. No 45 spring 2001. It says in the first sentence: ‘The defence is in a deep and sustained structural crisis’. In 2004, the Army alone still had a de facto 1 billion. NOK in deficit. We had the Right-State Council at that time. Today, as I said in my speech, our colleagues in other countries envy us for having a good balance between structure, operational capacity, tasks and funding. Is it the case that the Council of State now looks a little more closely at this and realizes that during the last decade, defence has actually improved both in terms of operational capacity, timeliness and proper funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e946	I am strictly not very busy talking about the 2001 quotes. I am busy talking about the real situation in Defense in 2013, and I believe that there are still challenges in the balance between structure, tasks and resources, and that there are challenges in the balance between operation and investment. Now I think we should also acknowledge that when Norway has had budgets that have been really flat, or have gone up a little over a few years, and other countries have had to cut, it also has to do with a dramatic economic situation in other countries, for which we have been flattered. We might also have been in the same situation as many of our neighbouring countries if our economic situation had been worse. But that's how the long-term plans are based on very strict assumptions. It's going to be extremely little to tilt the balance of disfavor of operational ability. One example is that the previous government has already taken 75 million. kr of what was going to finance the long-term plan, after the Afghanistan mission was reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e951	I think we should agree that we should be happy that we have had a government that has run the economy well in the country, and that has also seen that the defence has been able to change – and with the following means, which has given a balance that has not been found before, if we go ten to twelve years back in time. It's been a positive development. But it is easy 'to balance', says the Minister of Defence. I'm worried about the signal that will be given in the setting above. I was in North Norway last week, and there's also a turbulence. Will the Minister of Defence follow up the measures in the long-term plan, including: associated with the Air Force Inspector-General? Moving the scheduled institution will be followed up? Would you like to build up the South route followed up, as it was built up, and as the plural comment of the setting added? Can the Minister say something more specific about what he thinks about the changes he has to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e958	I was also recently visiting inner Troms and meeting with the rapporteurs in Bardu, Målselv and Sørreisa, and could tell them exactly what else I have said, that the decision on Sørreisa is firm, so there is no reason for anyone to worry about it. The decision on the Army and the construction of the Armor Battalion is also firm – there is no reason for anyone to create uncertainty about it. When it comes to the Air Force Inspector-General, it's one of the areas we're now looking at. It is simply because we already announced in the setting of the long-term plan that we thought it was a challenge to carry out a major conversion in the Air Force while moving the management element. So that means that we're now evaluating, for example: The timeline for moving the Air Force Inspector General. We haven't concluded this yet, this is under work, and of course we also have an assessment of how we can best ensure that the operational capability stays through the big shift the Air Force is going through. This is an essential part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e965	I hear and see that the Council of State will look at the balance between tasks, structure and operational capacity. And it should just be missing that not a new government council will also do it to do the very good defense we have, even better. I noticed what she said about the frigates and sailing. But I have a very simple and very concrete question, and that is: can we expect an increase in the defence budgets in the next few years in the order of magnitude that was demanded during the budget debate last year from the same Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, then as chairman of the committee, that is, at the top of 0.5 billion. SEK per year or 616 million. kr as it was then said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e972	As a representative of a very long-term government party, Marit Nybakk also knows that this will come back in the annual budgetary discussions. But I also started here by stressing that the government both in the platform and in what we are now saying, underlines the importance of the need for continued increased appropriations, modernisation and reform. So that means that these are things that we're going to get back to in the annual budgets, and we're going to get back to the results of the reviews we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e977	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e980	At the beginning of the debate, Øyvind Halleraker commented on the comment of Anniken Huitfeldt on political theatre, and he said something like that he would have liked to have been invited to the closed performances. There's no need for closed performances, because we've been on the rehearsal. Over four years, today's Minister of Defence, who is head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, has held the role of the greatest critic of the defence policy of the previous government. It was not spared the criticism. Quite exactly one year ago, 7 December last year, we had the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee budget debate on the 2013 budget. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide went high on the track and even criticized the then government's reality description in his post. She said, ‘We are willing to pay for the government’s decisions as opposed to their own.’ And she said, ‘We propose to strengthen the operational budget of the 2013 Defence Agency with a total of 616 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the same debate, Høres Ivar Kristiansen said: ‘There is little doubt that the operational capability and capacity of the defence are in a crisis of some kind.’ Furthermore, he talked about a defence that does not have the ‘ready-to-use situation for which we really need to defend’. It was not a trifle to take the term ‘crisis’ and ‘deficit preparedness’ in its mouth in a debate related to the defence of the kingdom. I could of course have left off stopping there and gone even more years back. I don't. But I just mentioned that in the 2012 budget, that is, one year earlier, the Right proposed strengthening the defence budget by 500 million. kr. The Progress Party proposed to strengthen it by 980 million. kr. So, for 2013, the Right proposed strengthening the defence budget by 600 million. kr, and the Advance Party by over 1 billion. kr. That's why I looked with interest up to the presentation of the supplementary proposition to the Solberg government. Because there was one area that I was sure there would be a lot more money to do, it was the Defense. This is a policy area where both parties agreed that more funding is needed. I understand that the new government and the new government parties do not get through on all points because there must be more parties in the Storting, but in the areas where the government parties agree, we have to expect that there will be changes in the policy. The right would significantly increase the defence budgets. The progress party would increase a lot more than that. So there was the supplementary proposal and the budget agreement, and the defense didn't get 1 billion. kr. The defense didn't get 600 million kroner. kr. The defense did not receive 500 million kroner. kr. No, the defense got $17 million. kr. I say like in bingo 17 – one seven. So it was 17 million. kr needed to get the Defense out of what was described as a crisis. Now you have to be careful in these PISA times and the discussion about math skills, but with my calculations, it's going to be a defense budget of 43 billion. kr less than 0,5 per mill – less than 0,5 per mill of the defence budget of the Stoltenberg government. These seventeen million people make a comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in today's budgetary position where it says that the majority is «satisfaction with the beginning of the government's efforts to close the gap between rhetoric and reality compared to the red-green government's draft budget». You world! So the distance between rhetoric and reality is 17 million. kr – less than 0,5 per mille. I have to say, this is not in line with what we heard last year's budget debate, the budgetary debates the years before that, and with what we heard in the election campaign. Then I heard the Minister of Defense just now said that this is a 'already first step'. Yes, it is, it is very sober. I would also like to say that it is quite serious. For the Right Party and the Advance Party, voters have promised much more to the Defense Party, and they do not keep what they promise. It's just going to crumble, and someone can call it a sobering first step; I call it a breach of promise, because that's what it is. The majority of citizens say in the vote that they are aware that this also includes a review of assumptions and decision-making bases in the current long-term plan. Then I agree with the Minister of Defence on what she just said, that of course new situations that arise must be dealt with. We agree. But what does it mean that the government parties now say in committee? It's not going to be a fight,' said the Secretary of Defense. Well, what does that mean, why does one write that? The largest investment – the largest investment – in the long-term plan is the fighting aircraft investment. Are there any changes there? Will there be closure of HV districts anyway? This was a major theme both in the professional military work and in Stortingen's treatment of the long-term plan. What happens to the HV school at Dombås? Will there be strengthening of the 2nd Battalion? Can she answer more clearly than what was done to the question from Navarsete: Will there be a collection of control and warning activities in South Africa? And is it pushed forward based on Evenes? I must say after what we heard the Minister of Defense say in his post, there is now uncertainty at the Evenes and forward base in the north. Let's hope that's not why the Solberg government has appointed the former Evenes rapporteur as Secretary of State. The reason I'm asking about this is that the government parties are helping to create uncertainty about the long-term plan. On Thursday we debated next year's budget for transport. Then the speakers of the Right Party and the Progressive Party said that it is the national transport plan that was adopted by the Red-Green parties, which is the one in force, despite the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party had other proposals. That's the way it should be, even the speakers of the government parties. That is a good observation, but then we must also be clear: is not the long-term plan of defence the same? This must be clarified by the Minister of Defence. Is the adopted long-term plan applicable or not? We do not need uncertainty about such a crucial document as the defence's long-term plan. Norway has a good defence. We have done so thanks to major changes over the last 10 to 15 years. We've gone from having a big defense based on the cold war's principles and threat images to having a modern, operational defense. As decision-makers, we should extend a great deal of thanks to all the employees of the Defence Agency, who have been through difficult times with tough transitions. But we have also managed to transform our defence because we have wanted it politically – I think I can say almost politically – and because it has been a political will to increase defence appropriations in recent years. Many of our forces are capacities that are in demand in international operations. It's because they're very good at quality. One frigate is on his way to Syria, one is in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Sea. That's where we used to have patrol planes. We remember all the very good feedback from the Norwegian defense for the efforts in Libya. In addition, we have special forces and other units that hold high international standards and are in demand for capacities in international operations. Everyone who has participated and participates in international operations deserves thanks, commendation and recognition from this room. Although the number of soldiers in Afghanistan is falling, I would like to stress that Norway is not out of Afghanistan. I would also like to thank the Minister of Defence for repeatedly stressing that precisely when it is sometimes presented as Norway leaving Afghanistan. We must not forget Afghanistan, we must not forget the Afghan people, we still have a responsibility in Afghanistan. Finally, the Norwegian defence is well rusted. Big investments are at stake. The adopted long-term plan is the governance document after which it must be worked. Let's not doubt the long-term plan. When there is also – hopefully gradually – agreement of the government parties between rhetoric and realities, this is going to be good. We can sleep safely for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1030	The President will ask the representative Myrli to look at the Norwegian vocabulary and find appropriate wording instead of the term ‘not at all’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1033	In the 2014 Defence Budget, citizens set a priority for increased operational capability and enhanced preparedness by increases and re-priorities with concrete actions of 30 million. kr. In contrast to the representative Myrli, I believe this is a targeted and good start for a stepping up of a bet on the defense. This government strengthens preparedness and increases activity to secure our resources in the northern regions. In today's globalised world, threats are inconceivable and cross-border. The threats may be far from Norway, but nevertheless threaten Norwegian interests both at home and outside. Therefore, the best possible defence of Norwegian interests requires good preparedness and understanding of the situation. The Nordic regions are among Norway’s main foreign policy areas of interest and have moved from a security policy area to an energy and nutrition policy centre. These areas are of great importance to Norway, and Norwegian presence and sovereignty should therefore be made more visible. It is important that we ensure the defence of good situational understanding and high operational capability in the north. Adequate means of actually sailing in the north are essential. As a result, the civil parties give increased priority to the north by significantly increasing the number of patrol days for the Coast Guard. The Marine Hunters Command – MJK – is the Norwegian Maritime Special Force and is trained for risk-filled military special operations. MJK is on national alert to assist police in counter-terrorism tasks quickly and to strengthen their own preparedness. Cooperation parties shall ensure in the budget a permanent funding of MJK on preparedness for increased national security. Another important action mentioned by the Chair today to strengthen preparedness is an increase in the budget for the exercise and training of the Home Security effort forces. With its nationwide and locally anchored organisation, home security plays a central role in national preparedness and has the capacity to move out at very short notice to support civil authorities. Strengthening the exercise and training of the response forces will therefore mean much too much improvement in quality and preparedness. The increase in the Defence Budget is given priority in 2014 to operational capability and increased national preparedness, while maintaining a greater focus on securing the North. I would also like to mention the important initiative and the effectiveness of the Minister of Defence immediately after the formation of a new government. The day after the Solberg government took over, it became known that the state pension fund had stopped the payments to damaged war veterans because of lack of money. The Minister of Defence immediately addressed the matter, so that we can today adopt an increase of 254 million in appropriations for 2013. kr, which will ensure that the veterans get the money they are entitled to. The recognition and care of our injured war veterans is a common social responsibility. It is not acceptable that our veterans should wait and live with the uncertainty of payments they are entitled to, on the grounds of lack of appropriations. In this case, the red-greens have not followed up well. The Government Parties have therefore, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, taken care of this in the 2014 budget by ensuring that the current compensation scheme is converted into an estimate allocation, so that the veterans are secured payments without delay. This simplification is an important step that contributes to the predictability and economic security of our veterans. For this government and the cooperation parties, it is important that those who have sacrificed their health through efforts for Norway and have contributed to our safety here at home should receive the compensation they require, without long delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1057	Why is Nelson Mandela the greatest political leader of our time? It's not because he gave the best speeches, it's not because he has a strong story, but it's because he represents change. He showed that the impossible is possible. He did not find himself in small adjustments, the small steps in the right direction. No, he wanted justice. Now the world is struggling to celebrate Mandela. He deserves every word they say about him. But more than words, he deserves action. He deserves that we continue where he left off. Those who now celebrate should feel obliged to go ahead in the future. Norway is a country that has a tradition of leading ahead and leading. We did that when the red-green government reached 1 pst. in aid, or with our work for disarmament of weapons. That's where we chose to go in front. We fear that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not have the same ambitions. They've never had that -- on the contrary. We have repeatedly heard in these budget debates that the new government has only had three weeks to create a new budget. Then it's interesting to see what they actually chose to prioritize over the three weeks. And what were they selecting? Well, cut the aid, cut the rainforest and fewer quota refugees from Syria. It is good that some of it is reversed in Stortinget, but it is a very bad signal from our new government. For what right can we protest against the cuts of other countries when our own government proposes the same thing? There is little about international policy in the new Government Declaration to the Right and the Advance Party. But let's look at what they actually prioritize to present. One of the things that says is that they're going to have a more balanced Middle East policy. Does the new bulk of population mean that there has been an imbalance in our policies? Have we supported the Palestinians too much? Have we overly protested against the construction of the wall, the blockade of Gaza and violations of international law? It's a little strange at all to use the word 'balance' about Israel and Palestine, because there's no balanced conflict. There's one occupant and one that gets occupied. There is one strong party and one weak party. And the oppression is getting worse, now in the form of new settlements – settlements that strengthen the occupation every day. This may allow the hope of a two-state solution to flow out. That's why it's urgent to stop the Israeli settlements. Then it is alarming that the new government in this round could not even comment that the settlements are a problem, and that the violence is increasing. Is this the new balance of the new government? I urge the Foreign Minister to respond to whether he agrees with our policy, or whether it is a real line break. For us it seems clear that it is the Progress Party that has been implemented. We know that they are at an extreme in politics. When the whole world demonstrated against Israel's bombing of Gaza, our new finance minister set up a support demonstration for the war. That's what's unbalanced, and it's disappointing that the Right now agrees to hand them over to the Middle East policy. It is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has protested against the imprisonment of Palestinian children. But there are also many Palestinian politicians in Israeli prisons. They are called terrorists, but many of them are young, progressive politicians working for their people. At Mandela's departure, we have been reminded once again that what someone calls terrorists, for others can be a hero of freedom. On top of all the tribute, there is reason to recall that Mandela himself was on the United States terrorist list until 2008. I know several of those who are today in prison in Israel. It's young people I've met at seminars in Ramallah or around the campfires at the AUF summer camps on Ut Island. They represented the new hope, the new generation. Now they're in prison. Yesterday we lit the other light in the advent roof. Then we sang, "May prisoners have their freedom and refugees a home." Yesterday it was for my Palestinian friends that I lit two lights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1080	The most striking feature of the new government’s foreign platform is the absence of ambitions and initiatives. A ‘realistic foreign policy’ is to be pursued, leading to ‘actual results for the Norwegian people’, but not one word about what you want to achieve, what kind of results you want, not one initiative to take. When the Stoltenberg government joined, there were a number of initiatives and concrete objectives in the government platform. We raised the Northern Territory Strategy to become the most important strategic area, and got the dividing line clear with Russia. We raised the proposal for a ban on class weapons, and got it implemented. We wanted to strengthen Norway's potential as a contributor to conflict resolution, and we succeeded in several areas. We would take the initiative to recapture the vision of a world without nuclear weapons, and we did. But in this government platform, there are neither new ideas nor new solutions. I had hoped that this debate could clarify some important prerequisites for Norway's policy in the coming years. Does the Joint Committee note ‘that Norway will continue to be a significant player and contributor in order to create sustainable development and growth in poor parts of the world’, that the development budget now amounts to 1 pst. of GNI also in the years ahead? Or shall we each harvest experience a political game in which the government proposes a lower level, i.e. cut, which the Christian People's Party and the Left will negotiate up to 1 p.m. and thus get 'demonstrated' that they have influence? When I heard the representative of Kristian Norheim, the message was clear: 1 pst. is not important. He pointed out that 1 pst. is ‘a blind road’ and ‘a resting pad’, and that freeing trade and investment to generate growth, creating jobs, is what creates development. Yes, it's true that there are important elements, but at the same time it's too narrow. Education, health, fair distribution, a good tax system and sustainable management of a country's natural resources for the benefit of the entire population are also important elements and prerequisites for making investments that can generate growth and jobs. There's the approach to snow, and it's used as an argument to claim that it's not the number of billions that's important, but the results. Yes, the results are of course the most important, but the number of billions is also not insignificant, and the elements that we're going to play on are many. I think the Foreign Minister in this debate should clarify whether the government is now taking into account the political realities, that there is a large majority in this Chamber who believe that we should put the aid effort at 1 pst. of GNI. In the course of the last year's budgetary procedure, the Progress Party not only proposed a large cut in the aid budget, but also went to work on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' operating budget with a cut of 172 million. kr. It was actually 8.5 pst. of the operating budget of the U.D. The right was more careful, but they also cut them, by 10 million. kr. Then it's interesting to see: why isn't this repeated this year? Is it not ‘necessary bureaucracy’ that government should cut? Or was it such that last year the alternative budgets of these parties were not meant to be serious? Is that why you don't have to touch these posts now? I think it makes sense that they haven't, but it must be a cross of thought that what you're proposing in the opposition, you don't dare to put it in position. A little about defense. The Government announces that it will review the assumptions and decision-making bases of the long-term plan adopted in June, as others have pointed out, and as also the Minister of Defence concerned in his statement. She assured me it's not a rematch. Nevertheless, there will be uncertainty about the extensive conversion of the Air Force on the steps of, with the development and accumulation of the fighter base for our new fighter aircraft in the Urland and forward based on Evenes and other important elements, will be implemented. It is important that the current review should be carried out as quickly as possible, so that the uncertainty can be eliminated, and that any new decisions are taken on the basis of which the Minister of Defence and the Government consider this to be justified. Then it is difficult not to get into, as others have said, that there is quite a distance between what was claimed in the last year's budget debate and the budget debate before that of the current Minister of Defence and the then head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and her party traps. Right-wing defence spokesman, Ivar Kristiansen, went – I had almost said as usual – fresher when it came to descriptions, and as Sverre Myrli showed with his quotations: there was a crisis in defence because of what was thought to be distance between structure and tasks and appropriations. Then the Right proposed to strengthen the operating budget in the Defence for this year by 616 million. kr. The party of progress took, as usual, more forcefully in and proposed about 1 billion. kr. In the additional proposal, the increase in the allocation to the Coast Guard is 13.9 million. kr. It's positive, but it's far, far from what today's government parties considered absolutely necessary last year. The Minister of Defence pointed out that there are limits to what you spend three weeks. Yes, it is, but you have had four years where you have systematically intended to justify that you have been lying about. 0.5 B.C.E. DKr below. It shouldn't have been so hard to get through in three weeks. You can't blame for lack of money either, because you found money to cut your tax income by $8 billion. kr on an annual basis. So you had money at your disposal if you thought the situation in the defense was so serious that you needed a real increase. If the increase of 13.9 million. kr is the ‘first step’ – as the Minister of Defence said – at the escalation, it will take 35 years to reach the level deemed necessary by the Right last year, and 70 years to reach what the Progress Party thought was necessary. Then I start to understand what the government thinks when it says it has a generation perspective on its policy. Then it's true, as the Minister of Defense says, that the change in defence isn't over. Nor will it be over when the new structure of the Air Force is in place and when the reform of competence has gone beyond its own. It is necessary to be in constant transition in the light of changes in the security policy situation and changes in new weapon systems, etc. The most joyous thing about this extensive change in defense is that it has the ability to release a lot of money from things you no longer need, to the so-called pointed end. It has to go on. So finally some notes. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said he wanted to pursue a value-based foreign policy. I don't think there is any disagreement about the values that Norway is going to advocate and stand for, human rights, democracy, etc., but I would like to remind you of what an overall committee is starting its remarks with: ‘The Committee points out that the government will pursue a foreign policy promoting Norwegian interests, Norwegian security, economy and well-being, focused on areas where Norway has a prerequisite for making a difference.’ That line supports the committee. We must not forget the interest-based foreign policy. It was promoted by the previous government in a comprehensive roll-out message that received cross-political support. It is important that we continue to do so in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1113	So this was what Solhjell's representative chose to prioritise in his speech on the foreign budget today: a 50-year-old newspaper article from the Hundenews in 1963. I think it's quite a diet from the representative Solhjell when he starts to pull this out again. And once again he draws an undocumented claim from some book he has read. I ask the representative, Mr Solhjell, to substantiate the claim that the predecessor of the Progress Party, Mr Anders Langes Parti, received support from the South African apartheid regime, otherwise he will be silenced. It is simply not possible to claim such things in ‘hustles and rifles’ without documenting it. And so it's not the Progress Party that's going to document this, it's the ones that make that kind of claims. Furthermore, the Progress Party has opened its archives to those who want to look at them. I would like to give the representative Solhjell the opportunity to take a deep dive in the archives of the Progress Party. You are cordially welcome, it's just to make contact, and then you should read until your eyes get big and wet. Maybe you even become convinced that some of the things you read are good things. I think it is bad that a representative should ‘hitle’ a party for claims and opinions that individuals had 40 years ago, i.e. from the start of the party, but not only that, even from the time before the party was started. I also think that the representative, Mr Solhjell, should sweep at his own door. The game he represents, SV, has had enough contacts with dictatorships and authoritarian states up over the years – at a high level. Berit Ås, for example, called The Soviet for a ‘peace spy’. Party Secretary of SV Svein Skotheim and party leader Berit Ås had a nice trip to Bucurşti, to one of Europe's worst dictators, Nicolae Ceauşescu, where they drove around in a black limo and had good things to say about that regime afterwards. Former party leaders such as Stein Ørnhøi, Knut Løfsnes, Berit Ås, Finn Gustavsen, Berge Furre and Torolv Solheim have all had trips to dictatorship states. I think you should sweep for yourself first. Let me say it right away: I'm the very last to defend the regime we saw in South Africa. It was an inhumane regime. I get sick at the thought that such a regime has existed. It is also in contradiction with the liberalist ideology on which the Progress Party is based. That someone has had dubious and idiotic opinions about it from my own party in the past, they have to answer for themselves. I'm taking a distance from a defense of that kind of regime. The representative Solhell is actually an SV I have a little bit of sense for. I see Solhjell as an interesting and well-read type and not as an SV of the good old museum guardian variety. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to refer Solhjell to the budget we are now discussing, and not least to the various posts where we are providing assistance to different countries and regions. Because if Solhjell's representative reads in detail here, he will also recognize some of these countries and regions. He will recognize that it is part of the countries to which his party traps have traveled. Norwegian aid money is being used today to clean up a country where SV has had their scores in the past. It must be a crossroads of thought for the representative, Solhjell. I also want to be brief about the representative Anniken Huitfeldt, who was in the Israel comment. The reason why the position would not agree with that remark was simply that it was an undocumented claim. We found the documentation. We found evidence of violence on both sides. That's why we had an alternate text. You refused to document it. We documented it and changed the text. That's the story behind it. There is political violence on both sides. In the text referred to by the UN Deputy Secretary-General, there were nine wounded Palestinians and eight on the Israeli side. It kind of goes into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1133	The President would like to remind Mr Norheim that all the speeches still have to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1136	I understand very well that the representative Sylvi Graham doesn't like my Nelson Mandela quote, because there's not exactly a tribute to Nelson Mandela's foreign policy on the right. It is a tribute to the foreign policy that the Church and the left have led to support the work against apartheid in South Africa. I have to say that I very much disagree with the representative of Kristian Norheim who says that idiotic statements that your party traps have come with will be on their behalf, and that they themselves will answer for them. I believe that the mistakes that have been made through the history of the Workers' Party must be large enough and responsible enough to distance ourselves. So I think that's the wrong starting point when we're discussing apartheid here today. Then to the discussion about the Middle East. I understand that there is another signal coming from the representative Kristian Norheim, other than what comes from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The reason, says the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is that they don't want to take part in the formulations of violence from settlers, is not necessarily that they disagree, but they only use other words. Because we have clear reports that warrant it. The UN has said through OCHA that there has been an increase in violence from 2012 to 2013. I would like to give the Foreign Minister the opportunity to clarify whether or not he supports this OCHA report – whether or not he believes this is wrong. I will choose to interpret him positively, namely that he actually agrees that illegal residence expansion has been recorded in the occupied country. I believe that it is quite well documented, and I think it is alarming that the majority is not involved in this comment. It is changing the balance of Norwegian foreign policy. Then I will say briefly to the representative Hareide: I agree with the line of the Christian People's Party Youth here. It should have been that the Christian People's Party agreed with me in my criticism that the government should add 1 pst. the basis of all its aid policy. Instead, he says that this isn't a political theater, which of course it is. Everyone knows that every four years in this Chamber, the Christian People's Party and the Left will negotiate the aid budget for 1 pst. Instead, Hareide should support me and say that this is based on the government’s proposal – and then he could have even more influence in other areas. I don't know what's the reason why it's okay for the government to provide a lower budget every year. I also think it would be fair if the representative Hareide said a little about where the money for education is taken from. I'm too much money for girls and education, but it would be fair if the representative Hareide said this was taken from the UN food programme. It is relatively important to contribute in the context of famines. It is taken from the development of civil society and democracy, it is taken from aid to Latin America, and we know that to a large extent is work for human rights organisations. I might have been a little careful to call this a price change – when we know where the money is taken from. I have a great sense of the representative Hareide. He said at the end of his appeal in the party leader debate that aid to the poor of the world was his most important thing. So we've got a government that doesn't agree with the percentage. Then I find it strange that most of the posts are going to criticise the opposition with which he really agrees the most. I would like to say to the Minister of Defence, who I think made a good contribution, that I do not disagree with the defence budget being presented. But it is quite obvious that the Minister of Defense has traveled from military camp to military camp throughout the campaign, and for several years, and delivered another message – a message that the defence is underfunded. There is no time, however, that is why the defence budget is no longer strengthened. It was time to give billions of dollars in taxes, but this is where time is used to argue that there could be no more increase in the defence budget. It appears to be a subjugating argument. It is clear that the Minister of Defence here has approached what was the policy of the former government. I believe that this is a good long-term plan. I am pleased about this, but there is no agreement between the Minister of Defense who said when she was in the Storting, and the budget that is now being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1153	I've grown up and lived in the middle of the so-called northern regions. The development from being a relatively marginalised geographical region to becoming a region of major geopolitical importance to a whole world is very exciting. There is a meeting between foreign policy and domestic policy, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. In this regard, it's a lot about us people who live and live there. The term ‘light in the house’ has an expanded meaning, as seen from a security policy perspective. The red-green government has developed a strategic and targeted policy for the northern regions. In recent years, we have also been given increased activity on the mainland, on Svalbard and on other territories, making it necessary to strengthen sovereignty and territorial integrity. For this reason, it is important for Norway to build alliances with allies and Russia and to use the necessary policy instruments to strengthen existing cooperation in the north. In such a context, both defence and civil cooperation between Norway and Russia is important. Co-existence, interaction and economic cooperation should characterise the security dialogue in the northern regions. It is certainly unnecessary to say that none of the Arctic states are served with a military race to the north – either the United States or Russia. We have good cooperation with our good neighbour in the east in a number of sectors and areas of society. Norway and Russia meet regularly in a number of policy forums — regional, national and international. We also see that economic interaction is growing. The signing of the border settlement agreement and the ratification of the part-line agreement in both national parliaments have contributed to cross-border cooperation at Storskog. I'm excited about the government's implementation in the work of a new border station. You have to tell me when something squeaks in other good cooperation. We should and should say when fundamental human rights such as freedom of expression and organisation and the lack of homophilic rights are challenged in Russia. We have to say that from when it is planned to continue operating the Kola power plant, one of the world's most dangerous nuclear power plants, only 20 miles away from the Norwegian border. And we have to say from now on when we are made aware that Russia is assessing Novaja Semlya, which borders on our coastline, as a place for storing nuclear waste. It's very challenging, to say it nicely. These issues cause concern for us Finnmarkings, and so should the Solberg government's offices. In this connection, I also asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs a written question about what the government would do. I don't have time to quote it, but I just want to give feedback to the Foreign Minister that I am very pleased with the answer. You don't want to cross your arms, you want to take this up in bilateral talks between the two countries. I thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1166	The point with the left-hand relationship to our democratic history is that many of us have recognized these failures. Now I'm going to do something that one shouldn't do too often, I'm going to quote myself – from a few years ago, I think it was in 2010. Then I wrote: ‘parts of the left ‘in this century have had an unclear and sometimes fraudulent relationship with democracy’’. [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘This did not apply only to the ACP and the Communists. People in SV and AP have also seen sympathy or perseverance in some dictatorships in the Third World. To go into that story and recognize where we bored wrong is both important and correct." When I wrote this, it was very little alarming, because it wasn't original. This would have been done by people in SV and the Labour Party at least a couple of decades before I did. But I have drawn up these things and the history of South Africa with the Progress Party several times before without getting anything near such reflection and insight that the representative Norheim here showed at the end of his post. A bunch of media have done the same. I must say that I thought this was courageous and correct by the representative Norheim. If I wrote it down correctly, he would call it the statements and the views 'deceptive' and 'idiotic'. That's what I thought was relatively precise. There were people like Anders Lange, Carl I. Hagen and Fridtjov Frank Gundersen I quoted. Then he said that he takes responsibility for admitting it. I also thought it was right and positive, but I want to say it was time, because a simple search on Atext shows that it has our theme in Norwegian medium a dozen times in recent years only. I also referred to the statements from the book to Eschel Rhoodie, who has also been up a number of times, which in my view it is important to look at, and, as I said, were statements that we should look at more closely. I know that the Progress Party has previously been asked about the transparency of its archives from these times by journalists who have written about this. They have been rejected, and it has also been rejected that there were transfers of funds. If that's the way everyone can see the accounting, the archives of travel, etc. from the time around the election campaign in 1973, it would be an exciting and important insight into history. I can confirm with this that in a short time there will be questions to see more about this. Maybe it'll be canceled like customs and clothes. In that case, it's important that it happens. Maybe there'll be things that are exciting to look at. I thought this was a useful clarification from the representative Norheim, even though the tone in the first part of the article was more in the traditional tone with which the Progress Party has often met. Finally, I would like to thank you for a pleasant view that I am a person who reads a lot and is interesting. I want to add: not unlike others in SV, but like a lot in SV – so maybe the representative Norheim can use me as an entrance gate to get a more positive view of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1189	So far in this debate, the very great sensations have not been revealed from any parties. What may be left – at least so far – as the most perceptive thing is that SV is asking for stability in this government's ability to follow up defence appropriations in the future, which is supported by the Workers' Party by the representative Sverre Myrli. The latter is much more credible, but I can promise both the representative Myrli and the representative Solhjell that they will have the opportunity to follow the long-term plan and enjoy future defence budgets. Otherwise, I have to say that when the debate in this Chamber is about the understanding and willingness of the government parties to join a minority note – one single remark – the debate is boiled down to a very small perspective and level. This does not include the balance that lies in the whole comment to which the entire committee subscribes in this area – which has also been mentioned by several. I must also say, although I am quite sure that Sylvi Graham is able to defend himself, that it was not Mandela's statement she reacted to, but the customary red-green way of boasting by itself. She may not have thought it appropriate in a situation where he, who has made a phenomenal effort, has just gone away. There I fully support her. This time, too, we have had a little round of Europe and how the European Union has led to dismay in Europe. There's another reason to say that's wrong. The EU has not, rather, done so on the contrary: the EU has been helping to recover those countries that have, over many years, with irresponsible economic governance itself, helped to bring their own economies under control. That is what is at issue, and now I think it is soon necessary to have a sobering understanding of the problems of some EU countries. Just having the safety net in the EU has helped them get back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1200	Last week, the Stortingeet dealt with the budgetary position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee and, of course, next year's immigration budget. One of the areas where there was different perception between the government and their supporting parties was the Christian People's Party and the Left on one side and the Red-Green on the other, was when it came to receiving quota refugees through the UN. It was surprising that there was no greater consensus on this, and I am particularly surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left are no longer particularly concerned that Norway should take a greater part of the responsibility. The Red-Green Government proposed that Norway should respond to the United Nations request to accept refugees from the camps in Syria’s neighbouring country by increasing the quota for transfer refugees by 1 000 in 2014. The war in Syria has posed major challenges to neighbouring countries through overcrowded refugee camps, while increasing the flow of acid seeking protection and help. The Government of Solberg proposed, in its additional proposal, to reduce the additional quota to 500 and instead provide room for accepting 1000 acids by reducing the reception of transfer refugees from other countries. In the Central Party, we believe that Norwegian politicians must face up to the enormous challenges posed by refugee flows, both humanitarian and security policy. Our regular quota of 1000 transfer refugees per year is a small contribution to mitigating the challenges. The government of Solberg and the majority of the population indicate that they also want to receive 1000 transfer refugees through the UN from the countries around Syria, but they do not say anything about who is going to go beyond this, through a reduction in the quota for UN refugees from other refugee camps. I think it's the wrong signal to give a world in distress, when we from Norway say that unfortunately, now Syria is the worst place, and refugees in camps from other countries can't give us the same opportunity to transfer that we've done in previous years. It is wrong that Norway, as a rich country, sends out such signals. We should afford to receive 1,000 from Syria in addition to the ordinary quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1211	The right is satisfied that the government will work to create a real balance between tasks and resources in the defence sector. The representative of Huitfeldt speaks in large letters about the lack of budgetary commitment to the Defence. The representative Huitfeldt then forgets the clear commitment to operational and preparedness, and that before appropriations can be increased to cover the gap between tasks and resources, it is necessary to know where a power collection is needed. So let's do that first. An important measure to increase military top end appropriations, to increase operational capability with greater focus on practice and training, is to spend less money on operations. A major operating expenditure of the Defence Operational Departments is expenditure on Defence Buildings for the rental, operation and maintenance of property, construction and civil engineering. The right assumes that the efficiency work in Defence Building will contribute to the release of funds to the Defence Departments, so that we can further strengthen our operational capability. The right will also highlight the importance of good sanitation support before, during and after military operations, national and international, and welcomes the commitment to building skills in multinational cooperation and cooperation with the civil health community. Trom's military hospital, TMS, in Inner Troms, is the only military hospital in Norway and has since 1954 provided the necessary health services to the Armed Forces personnel and, among other things, contributed to pre- and post-service healthcare in international operations. With its capacity, the hospital has also provided good health services to civil society. The Government contributes to the continuation of an exciting project in which the operation of the TMS is to be transformed into an Inner Troms Medical Cooperation Centre, which will be further developed into a civil-powered centre with a wide range of health services, in cooperation with the Defence. Being able to create arenas where civil and military cooperation on competence and operation is exciting and forward-looking. Joint exploitation of resources in an area where defence and civil society are interdependent, will be able to produce positive ring-effects, create good relations, and not least give defence personnel a comprehensive health offer in an area where the Army has its centre of gravity and its greatest activity. It will be exciting to follow up on this important and forward-looking cooperation project in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1225	If the chairman of the committee had been present in the debate still, she could also hear what I had to say in response to her questions. I could tell that I have kept to the same message for four years, regardless of where I have been. I've said that there's a lot of good in the defense, but there's still a need to balance the inputs. I have said – and I still say – that something will require more money, while other things will not require more money, but different structuring, and that there are still imbalances between the inputs and, not least, between investment and operations. It's a pretty – what to say – wonderful technical representative Sverre Myrli uses; he leaves it entirely to take into account what I'm saying in my post, because he's obviously already determined what he's going to say, and then he throws all the input factors in the long-term plan into the air and says that we in the government are creating the uncertainty, when it's the representative Sverre Myrli who's creating it. I said that the decision on fighter planes is quite firm, it was a unanimous decision in Stortinget on 14 June 2012. There has been no discussion about the division of HV districts or the HV school in Dombås. There has also been no discussion about the 2nd battalion or the South Travel. I have also said that in some areas of the Air Force we have to go in and see that we do the right things at the right pace and at the right time. This could mean that something's shifting something, like this. the previous government has already done with the QRA in Bodø. A change of assumptions also requires a responsible government to review the assumptions and bases. The representative Myrli is also concerned about how we put up the appropriations. Well, as I said in my post: This is a sobering first step. We're actually paying to fulfill some ambitions in the long-term plan that the previous government didn't. The number of days sailing in the Coast Guard was below the ambition of the government itself, because they did not finance it enough. So let's do that. The second is that there is still a hairy balance in financing the long-term plan: 634 million. kr is provided collected as the contribution in Afghanistan is deducted and used to finance other parts of the long-term plan. But the last government already has $75 million. kr of that money for foreign operations in the Gulf of Aden and Mali. This government, on the other hand, has chosen to take seriously what is stated in the government statement, namely that foreign operations are financed outside the framework. That's why it's in the ejaculation 30 million. kr to finance the mission on which KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’ is now out to extract chemical fighting materials from Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1238	It is the representative of Mr Vegar Solhjell who made me ask for the floor in this debate. I was about to say that on myself you know others. I find it strange when the representative, Solhjell, draws up a paper on the apartheid regime in South Africa that was signed by Anders Lange, a post that Anders Lange definitely shouldn't have written, and that the Progress Party has taken time and time again. So this article is from 1963. It's been 50 years, and it's been 10 years before the Progress Party was founded. Using this quote against today's Advancement Party as a kind of evidence becomes anachronistic and it becomes irrelevant. So Solhjell has taken a distance from SV's previous – or perhaps still present – view of some dictatorships around the world. To be honest, it's just the beginning. When Bård Vegar Solhjell swings to the great heights with this kind of quote game, it makes this case even more puzzling, for what has his own party, the Socialist Left Party, driven along in its time? Well, in the 1970s, SV's people worked as crazy to get a merger between the Socialist Left Party and the Communist Party of Norway, and they did it in part. So Norway's Communist Party was the Soviet Union's representatives in Norwegian politics in post-war Norway. The party actively and wholeheartedly supported the Soviet Union's crimes in Eastern Europe in the post-World War II period. Reidar Larsen was still the party president of the Communist Party of Norway when he was elected on SV's list for Stortinget in 1973, and later became SV's parliamentary leader. Has Solhell forgotten this? Nope. That two of the SV’s representatives in the same large-scale period had a background from the National Collection, Solhjell is probably also aware, but it’s probably okay in that party. I don't like this kind of debate, but when the representative Solhjell saw until those degrees throw a stone in the glasshouse, I think it's right to refresh his memory and remind him of his own party's pretty scary story.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1247	The President will remind the representatives that we are trying to debate today's budget in this debate, and I think it is important for the future debates in the next three and a half years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1250	The Minister of Defence called it a ‘glorious technique’ when I clarified what the government parties write in the setting. I asked what it means when it says that a ‘review of assumptions and decision-making bases’ should be carried out in the long-term plan. We have to be able to ask what that means. I stand for what is the content of the long-term plan, adopted by the Storting, but it must be allowed to ask the current government parties what they think, for it is those who have created the uncertainty. I challenged in a number of specific areas. The Secretary of Defense answered, but there was one area she didn't mention, one question she didn't answer, and it was forward base for fighter planes in North Norway, which Stortinget has decided to locate at Evenes. It did not comment on the Minister of Defence. We're not going to go this anymore, but it's interesting that this was the only specific question that the Minister of Defence wouldn't address. So I just want to say that earlier in the debate, it was claimed that the new government had to propose additional funding for the special compensation scheme for veterans with psychological damage. There was no need for the new government to do so, for that proposal was already before the dwindling government, dealt with by the Council of State on 4 October. It was actually one of the last propositions that the Stoltenberg government got through. The specific compensation scheme is one of the most important measures in what was presented as the action plan ‘Service for Norway’, consisting of 126 measures that were widely agreed in the United Kingdom. Of course, we have to make sure that there is sufficient funding for the compensation scheme, and that those who are applying and are entitled to payments are given the funds, and I am absolutely sure that the new Minister of Defence will follow this up in a good way. So I'd like to finally say that in my previous post, I used the term "not hanging on to something". Then I got packing from the president, Ingerd Schou, that I would find other words from the vocabulary. I have now looked up in the dictionary, and it says that 'grip' is a 'handicraft with handle and tip'. It also states that the term ‘it’ is not related’ is the same as ‘it’s pointless’. So far I won't go in terms of government policy, but if Ingerd Schou thinks it's more comprehensive, she'll have to stand for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1262	The President thanked the representative for using the dictionary in these important minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1265	We are at the end of a good debate, at least the part of the debate that has been about the budget, and later today we shall also adopt this part. It's historic that there's a total accumulation today that votes for 1 pst. of our GNI revenue will go to aid and development aid, and I am very pleased about that. This debate started with Anniken Huitfeldt's words about 'political theater', and I thought I answered her well in previous posts, but she was not quite happy. I would just like to sum up with the following three points to the chairman of the Huitfeldt committee: we can only note that after eight years of red-green government, the part that goes to education in the aid has declined every one year. So now we change that, and the last time this went up, set a krf as a development minister. Secondly, there are some debts that we are cutting off in the World Food Programme. That's not true. It's $170 million. kr is passed on in 2014, as it was in 2013. Thirdly, when we know that the costs of asylum seekers in Norway will be increased by over 500 million. kr, so we know that it goes beyond the aid frame. I thought it was very nice of the representative Skei Grande to address that issue, but we have had different governments in Norway for the past thirty years who have implemented the same practice. There's good reason to discuss it, but I don't think there's any good reason why the red-green parties should address that issue, when we look at what happened the eight years under red-green rule. The Middle East also has our theme. What has been the point of the Christian People’s Party when it comes to the Middle East? Well, we know that when the red-greens took over eight years ago, Norway had relied on both the Palestinian side and Israel. Now we can see that Norway no longer has the same confidence as the peace negotiations with both parties. This is what lies in a balanced Middle East policy – that we must have confidence both in the Palestinian side and in Israel. I notice that both the opposition party and the government party today have given tribute to Minister of Foreign Affairs Burnde for his way of acting in the Middle East. Having faith in both sides must be his goal, and I believe exactly the Foreign Minister Burnde is the right man to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1278	Many years ago, as rapporteur, I signed a protocol entitled 'Mayors for Peace'. In 2011 I was at the UN General Assembly, and in the headquarters of New York there is a booth with my and thousands of other rapporteurs' signatures. It was so nice to see it again. What's at my heart now is the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. We see that the world community is dying when people and society are hit by tsunamis, typhoons or drought disasters. Resources, materials and relief teams flow to. An area hit by a nuclear impact will not flow to. There, the world community doesn't have the means to help. There will only be suffering for years. This can only be prevented. In a world of increasing terrorism, the danger of nuclear weapons is also growing, and that is why they must be combated. I believe that the trail from the Oslo Conference on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons now needs to grow from track to main road, primarily towards the follow-up conference in Mexico in 2014. I think we need a world without nuclear weapons. Here's enough plagues and challenges on this globe. The plague is also our neighbours in Ukraine. The world’s eyes are aimed at what may appear to be a draw between Russia and the EU, fought in Ukraine. It is important that it is said in all democratic parliaments, as is the case here in our pulpit today: President and politicians in Kiev: we see you. Listen to the people. One of the posters of the demonstration, which we could watch on TV this weekend, said: they can't shut us out of Europe, because we're in Europe. The people of Ukraine dream of real democracy and real democratic influence, and I believe that the Ukrainian people are winners. As Nelson Mandela has said, a winner is a dreamer who doesn't give up. I think Ukraine is populated by winners. Julia Timoshenko is one of these. This weekend we heard her voice through her daughter, who was present and spoke to hundreds of thousands of demonstrators in Kiev. Yes, the government has already shown through its work that Norway does not recede to address critical questions where it is based, whether it is in Ukraine, Russia or elsewhere. Norway shall have a strong and clear voice for human rights, both in our neighbourhoods and in the rest of the world. It is in the values of the Sundvolden Declaration that the government will base its policy on the universal rights of all people, no matter where in the world they live. That's not what I call the absence of ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1301	I agree with Mr Hareide that this has been a good debate, especially when it is concerned with the budget and current foreign policy challenges. If you now see globally, more than 600 million new jobs will have to be created by 2020. Reconstructing the growth power of the global economy is crucial to providing opportunities for all the young people who need jobs in the future. Having a forward-looking development policy that creates growth and new jobs, and a robust private sector, is crucial. The government has also placed greater emphasis on this in its development policy. The government has also increased the rate of education. Without education and skills, there will be no opportunity to create the jobs needed for the 600 million people who need it. It is also right, as the representative Hareide pointed out, that we have unfortunately seen a weakening of Norwegian education in recent years. In 2005, we used almost 10 pst. of the training budget for, inter alia: girls and young people. Today we're down to 5.9 pst. This is not strategic or forward-looking in order to achieve the objectives of creating jobs and opportunities for these young people. It's been 20 years since the Oslo agreement on a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine. I feel that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber on what is government policy: – have a two-state solution, based on the 1967 limits, – find a solution for Jerusalem, – be willing to exchange – find solutions for the Palestinian refugees, This is entirely in line with what is the starting point for these negotiations by Minister of Foreign Affairs Kerry. I also read various comments in the vote, and I see that there is a majority comment by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where also the Center Party is present, but where other opposition parties are not present, saying that the parties: « sees favourably that the government will base a balanced approach to the Middle East conflict. [[...]] The majority support the government's objective of a negotiated solution whereby Israel and Palestine, like two states, exist in peace within safe and internationally recognised borders.» Even though some parties are not involved in that comment, I'm not interpreting it as opposed to a two-state solution, but that you have a different comment, where you have a slightly different angle of incidence. But that doesn't add up to what's the broad consensus, that's a two-state solution, based on the 1967 borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1332	I have followed a little bit in the debate, back and forth, but I want to give some consideration, since I was a UN delegate in the fall, when Norway provided its budget. We had meetings with many international organisations before the budget was presented. They all pointed to Norway's role. They not only pointed to the money we gave, but they also pointed to Norway's role as an example for the world in showing generosity associated with the world's poor. In a world marked by financial crisis, unemployment and insecurity, many donor countries have reduced their grant to, among others. United Nations organisations. That's understandable, but when a government grants 4 billion. kr more to use and yet to cut the aid, it is not understandable, and it was not intelligible with those we met. I believe that there were unfortunate signals, because Norway has the position it has, namely, as a country that – in addition to being a concrete provider of money – is an example for other countries, which we can go with in terms of solidarity beyond our own borders. The government's rotation was noticed, and I think it's a point to know and hold on by the government's doing that rotation, and that it's the Storting that reverses the rotation of this budget. I think it was very good that the Christian People's Party and the Left had to negotiate back the changes in the aid budget, but still we are left with a refugee status that is not as good as it was before this government came to power. I don't like it. We're facing a Europe and a Middle East region that bleeds, and then Norway chooses to spend 4 billion. In addition, the highest rate of tax relief, the reduction in refugee quotas and the reduction in the aid budget by the government. These are unfortunate signals at this time. Norway should have done more — not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1347	Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I also note with great pleasure that there is full agreement on the additions made by the government in the supplement. There is agreement on the importance of investing both in the Coast Guard and in the Home Protection Response Forces, and to provide permanent funding for a national emergency response task that the Marine Hunters Command has received. This is something that the government naturally takes into account in the further work, and not least in the discussion on the 2015 budget. I would also like to make it clear that I answered the questions raised by the representative of Sverre Myrli. I also replied that in the case of the Air Force, which Evenes is an essential part of, we now have several things to assess. I fully agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen that the assessments have been started in order to get quick answers to the questions asked. So they are committed to having a sound and responsible approach to things that may have changed after the adoption of the long-term plan a year and a half ago. So we have already seen one major change, as a reason why the previous government had to make changes to what was the basis of the long-term plan. When it comes to the question of compensation for injured veterans, it is quite right, as the representative Myrli says, that it was dealt with in the Council of State on 4 October. Now it should be said that the responsibility for finding funding was left to the new government, that is to say to us. We've taken care of that. But I think it is important to stress that I now feel that there is full consensus in the Storting also about turning this into an estimate, so that we make sure that damaged veterans do not even experience the uncertainty they have experienced in the autumn. Twice a autumn, payments have stopped because the State pension fund has been empty of money. This is due, inter alia, to: that the calculations have been different from what you predicted. But the combination of that and the fact that there has not been an estimate has made every time the State pension fund is empty for this money, then it stops, the government has to use the Royal Resolution, ask for an over-the-counter authorisation, and this creates a considerable uncertainty. These are damaged veterans who already initially experience that the meeting with the system is heavy and difficult, and then they also risked experiencing that payments for compensation and compensation they had been granted stopped. We couldn't have it like that. That is why the government immediately took care of it and made sure that this was an estimate. I am very pleased with the support that Stortinget has unanimously given to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1356	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1360	Let me just say once again, to the matter of the compensation scheme for veterans with psychological damage, that I fully agree with the Minister of Defense and think she has dealt with this in a tidy way. Now let's not use force to discuss what we agree on, because here I think we all agree. So once again, we're completely in line. I just want to make a final comment on the prerequisites for the defence's long-term plan. If things happen, something changes, the Minister of Defense says that you have to look at it again, and she mentions the proposal to continue so-called QRA in Bodø – a little tribal we tolerate in a defence debate. Yes, there is a minor change that is being made, but that does not mean that it is in the decision to establish Evenes as a forward-looking base in the north. QRA continues in Bodø as long as we have today's fighter aircraft, but with the new planes, Evenes is to be built up. I record that the Minister of Defense says she won't fight again, but we don't get any answers to the question of Evenes. The working party is to build the base on Evenes. We're waiting for the government to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1367	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1381	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1388	When the Justice Committee visited the police district of Vestfold in the last period and was presented with the project Grensenlos against foreign mobile profit criminals, we got a good description and a good background of what this bill is all about. The police in Westfold noted that they had special problems that they put in great resources to reveal and take criminal gangs that speeded the country around. They cooperated with other police districts to take these bands, and they had taken many, but they had begun to discover that there were still more that they took over, that there were repeaters who appeared again, despite having been sentenced and expelled from the country. Oslo police districts have addressed the same problem in their work against both foreign drug lords and foreigners who come here to commit handkerchiefs, rans, etc. Those who are taken will be judged, they will be expelled, but the police have begun to take more people who have returned. The police say they don't have enough tools when the penalty level to be taken to get back – according to the proposition we're dealing with – is 35 days. As there is a tendency for more and more foreign criminals to come to Norway to provide our wealth, it is important for us that the deportation tool works well and preventatively, and that reactions are encountered when it is broken. Until November this year, 1838 foreign criminals have been expelled for coming here and committing crime. Last year, 267 violations of the entry ban were recorded, i.e. you come back in after you have been expelled, and there is probably a risk that the number – those who are being taken for a breach of the entry ban – is just the top of the iceberg, because we have to admit that there is no very great danger of discovery. Most of those taken are taken in connection with their committing new crimes and then they find that they also have an expulsion decision on them. In order to achieve a better system of follow-up to the punishment of criminals and violations of the foreign law by expulsion – in order to prevent and be respected – a broad majority of the committee is pleased that the proposal proposes to increase the penalties to two years in the event of a first-time offence, that the level of normal penalties for first-time offences should not be under prison for one year, and that, in the event of repeated violations of the entry ban, the penalties will double to four years. In that case, the general level of normal punishment will not be less than one year and six months. Of course, it is important to stress that when the Grand Duchy as a legislator specifies a normal level of punishment, we do so with understanding that the courts have the freedom to determine the punishment they find right, based on the knowledge they receive in every single matter they deal with. But at the same time, it's going to be a heavy moment for the legislator to specify a normal penalty level, and that's not the first time the Storting does it. In the previous period, when the Stortinge, among others, Treated a broad case of criminal levels of abuse, violence in close relationships, rape, murder and gross violence, the Stortinget also went into detail to describe the desire to use the upper part of the criminal framework and to lay down at a level different from that of the court. It was also announced that it would be followed up in the coming years. So specifying a normal penalty level is no exception to what we've done before. I think it's important in this case – where you've been as low as 35 days compared to a six-month penalty level – that we show direction. Otherwise, of course, it would be exacerbating if you come here for the purpose of committing crime, that is to say, when you are committing new crimes, you break the ban, you have burglary tools and so on. Of course, this would be exacerbating, and then the penalty could be higher than the normal level of punishment. The Municipal and Administrative Committee also says that it wants that if you are taken to break the entry ban, the length of the entry ban should be increased to a greater extent if it is limited in time. All in all, I believe that those who work on this in Norwegian police and Norwegian foreign agencies appreciate what we are doing today in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1405	There is a broad consensus within the Municipal and Administrative Committee to strengthen the criminal framework of the Foreign Affairs Act for infringements of the prohibition of entry following expulsion decisions. Unfortunately, this is a necessary consequence of non-compliance with expulsion decisions. The problem is further exacerbated by the fact that violations of the entry ban are often combined with criminal acts in Norway. The proposition refers to statistics from 2011 and 2012 that show that almost all those who were punished for offences against the entry ban were also reported or punished for other crimes. An increased penalty framework for infringements of the entry ban from today’s law on fines or prisons for up to six months, to a new level of fine or imprisonment for up to two years, is a strong increase. When we in the Central Party support this proposal that was promoted by the Red-Green Government, it is because it is necessary to show that violations of the entry provisions after expulsion are serious and must be punished thereafter. We assume, as the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the police do, that a substantial increase in the penalties will have a preventative effect. A crime that may be punishable by up to two years of imprisonment gives greater reason to assess the consequences of the crime than the current criminal penalties justify. It is also an objective that a greater proportion of foreign jurisdictions in Norway should be available for restitution in the home country. In the government's case proposal, it is pointed out that today's short penalty framework makes it difficult since, following international agreements on which we are bound, it is set as a condition for a settlement transfer that there should be at least six months left of the settlement time in Norway when the beneficiary country receives a settlement transfer request. The members of the Municipal and Administrative Committee from the Left and the SV consider that a distinction should be made between whether the expulsion decision is due to a criminal offence or a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. So the parties want to separate criminal acts, such as winning crimes and violent crimes, from violations of the entry ban that are not linked to other crimes. The Ministry of Justice and Defence argues that the purpose of the offence of entry should not initially have an impact on the criminal framework, but that this may be taken into account in the criminal investigation. Where it can be proved that the purpose of entry is to commit other crime, it will be punishable. I can understand the Left and the SV's argument that when an important reason for increasing the criminal framework for offences against expulsion decisions is to prevent the crime of gain and violence, the penalties for it and for illegal entry related to other crimes should be different. However, when we, on the part of the Central Party, support the Government's proposal, it is because it is necessary to establish greater respect for and compliance with the entry ban. It is important, as stated in the proposal, to ‘enforce the respect of the expulsion institute and the prohibition of entry’. Juss-Buss has shown in his hearing that part of the breaches of the entry ban is due to the fact that the foreigner is not aware of the scope of this. Some may assume that short-term visits are not covered by the expulsion decision or will not result in punishment. Language misunderstandings can reinforce this. I am therefore pleased that the Department of Proposition agrees with Juss-Buss that it is important that the foreigner be informed of the contents of the expulsion decision in a language that he or she understands. This is also permitted in the foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1418	It is a unanimous committee that subscribes to the legislative proposal in this case – as the previous speaker said – which is the legislative changes that were submitted by the previous government, which have been repeated now. The reason is that there is, and has been, an increasing problem with non-residents who do not have legal residence in Norway and who commit crime. You have to deal with this both because it is a serious crime problem and also because the situation makes it possible to infect negative attitudes towards foreigners in general if you don't manage to deal with the difference between those who are criminals and those who are not. There are several reasons why the SV and the Left have their own comments on this issue, but it is a matter of ensuring that there is a greater distinction between offences against the criminal law and offences against the foreign law in criminal proceedings than what is signaled by the majority. It is absolutely right that many of those who violate the Foreign Affairs Act also violate the penal code, but not everyone does. When, on the part of the majority, it is so clearly underlined that you have to go to a normal level of punishment – that is, a government from the Grand Duchy that you are very rarely using, and that, in my knowledge, you have used only in cases involving very, very serious crimes such as rape and killing – we want to point out that there is reason to make this distinction between those who come here for the purpose of committing serious criminal acts, and those who come here after being expelled, and, for example, as the representative, Mr. Greni said, perhaps not even realized that it was not allowed to come to a shorter stay to visit the family. We would therefore like to say that we believe it should be the way it is today – that it is the courts that should lead in concrete measurement of punishment. I am pleased that the case rapporteur also underlined this in his statement, for that should be the case. In the practice of this law, there has to be a distinction between those who come here in order to commit criminal acts – and do it – and those who violate the Foreign Affairs Act only to be in the country for different, perhaps even understandable, reasons. That's why we've written these notes. Different premises are foreseen for the legal paragraphs to be adopted today. In addition, in an annotated form, we have clarified the need for information for those who are given expulsion decisions, so that they will not risk coming here because of a misunderstanding, be attacked again and have an expulsion decision of even longer duration. We should remember that some of these also have family and children in this country, and at least there is no reason for them to get an extended sentence because they have not understood the content of the punishment they have been imposed. I hope that the Minister of Justice in his speech can say something about how he wants to follow up on this, so that those who are convicted under these paragraphs have the opportunity to understand the content of the punishment they have received, so that they do not break the rules by misunderstanding and thus get a very severe punishment – which this new regulation is underlying. I think it's important that the Council of States say something about the relationship between what we're doing now, and the general view of whether people should be allowed to move across borders. This is not about foreign citizens in general, but it is about making a sharp distinction between those who commit criminal acts and those who do not. It is very important that we now in the debate are clear on this distinction, so that it does not infect into an attitude, which it can easily do, where you say negatively about people who are not Norwegian. There's no reason to do that -- we really need and benefit from people coming here, and that freedom should be enjoyed when they don't have anything bad in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1429	The President has taken the liberty of putting Trine Skei Grande on the list of speakers before the Council of State Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1432	That was good, because I have some comments that it is a good idea for the Council of State to hear before he takes the floor. The left and SV have a common comment on the matter. We agree on the basis of the matter and the reason for the matter coming, but we must always be careful to test this against the external borders and against the special cases. I think that, in the opinion of people out there, there is a very big difference between a man who goes to his family to see his daughter say, or an employee who has worked for one month for a long time in relation to his work permit, and those who are characterized by unparliamentary expressions – to which the case-rapporteur, Mr Bøhler, referred at the outset. I think it's quite different. I think that in terms of people's general perception of justice, there's a very big difference between visiting family and friends and not having had the big consequences that it can have, versus, for example. working without a work permit and paying taxes one month too much. I think paying taxes a month too much versus being taken for rapes, ransacks or drug sales, according to people's opinion, has very different rules. I think it is important that you have respect for the Foreign Affairs Act – as for everyone else’s laws. In most cultures, the criminal acts referred to by Jan Bøhler are criminal acts, while there are very different practices between countries regarding how a foreign law is handled and how it is handled, for example. is to work one month too much without a work permit. There is no general international legal perception of this, as it does in every country in the world when it is, for example, concerning rane and other crimes. So I just want to stress that this is an important difference, which is important for us in the Left joins in the proceedings here -- that we are now doing something that I think most Norwegian citizens think is important and right for our state of law, but that we have forgotten to go up a limit on the second part, which I believe in the utmost consequence can break very much with people's perception of justice and what people see as fair. It's in our job in this room to make sure that our laws are also related to the legal opinion that exists out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1445	I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the proposal to increase the penalties for infringements of the entry ban. The government believes that increased penalties in cases where expelled foreigners violate the entry ban are important in order to enhance respect for the expulsion agency. Illegal entry and breach of the entry ban are a major challenge for the authorities to enforce Norwegian immigration policy. More severe punishment is also important – as several of the speakers have mentioned – in a crime prevention perspective. The number of expulsions has increased quite a bit in recent years. The number of reports for infringements of the entry ban has increased significantly, from 77 in 2007 to 267 in 2012 – on which the rapporteur was involved. So far this year, about 400 cases have been registered. The number of criminal responses for offences against the entry ban has also increased significantly — from 14 in 2007 to 87 in 2012. About half of those convicted of a breach of the entry ban have previously been convicted of a breach of the entry ban. In addition, it appears that the majority of those who have been punished for offences against the entry ban have also been reported or punished for other crimes. The level of penalties for breaches of the entry ban has so far been too low. With a prison sentence of up to six months and a measured sentence of about 35 days unconditional imprisonment, the threat of punishment has simply not had a sufficient deterrent effect. There is a need for a tightening of both the penalties and the effective penalties. I think we're taking a step in the right direction as the Stortinge now raises the penalty framework to up to two years, leading to a normal one-year penalty level. It provides a penalty framework for imprisonment for up to four years for repetition. It is positive – in my opinion – that the legislative proposal provides clear guidance for the measurement of penalties and a clear indication of what is expected to be the normal level of penalties. It will provide the courts and others with a rapid and predictable transition to the new level of punishment. I have noted that the minority, the Left and the SV, are critical that the Storting should comment on the normal penalty level. I would therefore like to agree with the remarks made by the rapporteur here, that it is not unusual practice, either in propositions or in settings, to come up with those kinds of leadership, while, of course, it is not such that there will be any restrictions on the free judgement of the courts in each case. In fact, it can also be discussed whether the criminal framework itself should have been strengthened more than the legislative proposal here implies. In its opinion, the National Advocate-General suggested that the criminal framework should have been in prison for up to three years. Oslo police districts thought the punishment framework should be raised to four years. The government will closely monitor developments in the level of criminal penalties imposed by the courts. If it turns out that there is a need for further increase in the criminal framework, the government will assess this and come back to the Storting in this respect. I also register – the representative of Skei Grande was involved in this in his statement – that both Left and SV believe that there is more to be done to punish a breach of the entry ban when the expulsion is caused by a violation of the Foreign Affairs Act than when the expulsion is caused by criminal offences. I basically don't agree with that. Foreigners expelled from Norway have been declared undesirable by a legally adopted decision, to be communicated in a clear and proper manner so that it cannot be misunderstood. However, when they choose to break the entry ban, there is the non-compliance after the expulsion being punished. The basis on which the foreigner has been expelled is therefore less relevant, in my view. But I would like to make it clear that in each case the courts will assess the conditions that are criminal-scrutinising and those that may be mitigating. The minority have also pointed out that several misunderstandings of expulsion decisions and that such decisions must be communicated and translated into – as the representative Andersen was involved in – a language understood by the foreigner. This is already covered in the foreign policy. The Ministry is also working on this issue — through the follow-up of several reports and projects dealing with several measures relating to the dissemination of decisions — so that there should be no misunderstandings of the nature of the concern of the representative Andersen. In conclusion, I just want to mention that we have also proposed some minor legal adjustments. I am pleased that the committee has been responsive to our perception of entry into force, so that it legally falls into place. The Government has the ambition that the entry into force of this provision will also take place quickly, as we have proposed the rapid entry into force of the Bill taken by the Stortinget in June. So I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1468	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1471	It's about the interpretation of the law. The Council of State says that, in his view, it is equally serious whether you break a ban order after a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act, or you break the penal code. I mean – like the representative Skei Grande, who was up in the pulpit and said it instead – that it could be a serious violation of people's sense of justice if it's about visiting family, doing nothing else wrong than that, and perhaps not even having understood that it was not allowed. The Council of State now assures us that information will be provided on this in such a way that you can understand it. But I'm looking to get some insight into how the Council of State explains that a violation of this law is as serious as a serious violation of criminal law, and how this can be justified on the basis of – to put it that way – a criminal policy reasoning about what it is that is most threatening and dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1478	I think it's because we're looking a little different at what's broken. I believe that it is the entry ban that is being broken, and that it is serious, regardless of what is the basis for the expulsion initially, while the representative, Andersen, believes that this is the basis for the expulsion to assess the seriousness of the breach of the entry ban. I do not agree with that assessment. I believe it is right that a situation is that there is a breach of the entry ban – which is to be communicated in a clear, clear and understandable way – which is punished according to the provision we now have for treatment, and not the basis for the expulsion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1484	First, what was recorded in the previous line exchange. The broad majority of the Committee endorses the proposal. I just want to ask the State Council if it's not that if it's a visit for which there's good humanitarian reasons, for example. to visit your own children, there is a home in the Foreign Affairs Act – I think it is § 71 – to apply for a short stay in order to carry out that kind of visit even if you have been expelled. The second question I have is how the Council of States will now be able to make more use of this tool, expulsion decisions. I know that you are now, among other things. has received a new instruction in the UDI that this can be used against EEA citizens who commit repeated handicrafts, repeated shop breaches, etc. How will more pressure be put on now to establish expulsion cases of the kind of criminal situation so that it can have more impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1491	I have experienced that we have now had a turn in the direction of a greater use of the deportation facility to prevent a recurring recurrence and serious crime. It also shows the statistics, as both the rapporteur and I were in our posts, in view of the number of expulsion cases since 2007, where the number has increased significantly. It also means that the police are more aware that someone has it as a tool in their so-called toolbox. I perceive that the police are using it as frequently as they can, and I think we can also expect a further increase in it. So this year, the number, as I mentioned, is 400 registered cases. That means the police are aware of it. As regards the second question, relating to the permit for temporary residence, there shall be an opportunity to apply for it, so that there shall be no reason to break the entry ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1498	The use of housing transfers has been addressed here, including: by the representative of Mr Greni. It is an important tool when the penalties are so long – it is well defined by the EU that there should be six months left to zone when you are transferred to your home country. In other words, when the penalties are in one year, there may be problems in implementing compensation transfers due to appeals, etc. If you are arrested for a second time and you get one year and six months, there should be a greater chance of using it — even if you are taken for the first time, if you are treated for other crimes. The difference between one or the other violation of the Foreign Affairs Act is that if you are charged with another crime, you get a sentence in addition to the crime for which you get your own sentence, for example. repeated mobile winning thefts. I wonder if the Council of State would like to take the initiative to use compensation transfers more often in these cases where you are a little in border countries, but where, if you start early, at the start of the case, you will be able to realize it more often than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1503	I am tempted just to answer yes to that question, because we will take such initiatives. We've already started that work, in general, not just on the grounds of the expulsion cases. In general, the focus on settlement transfer is strong in this government. There are some bottlenecks – which the representative of Bohemia had in mind – also in the case of processing time, both on the Norwegian side and on the part of the recipient countries, usually, but we are working hard to lubricate the machinery so that we can obtain more settlement transfers than has been the case now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1508	The Minister of Justice represents a party that at least occasionally defines itself as populist. This means having a policy that is related to people's perceptions out there, and having a policy that should also be implemented through a short enough reasoning for the VG. I'm going to draw such a reasoning. Why should one judge like a person who goes to Norway to give his daughter a hug versus one who goes to Norway to rape a young lady? Why should they be treated equally?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1513	I'm a little unsure whether it's very simple in a simple way to deal with that reasoning, even though the representative Skei Grande thinks that we sometimes define ourselves as populist. It is difficult to examine the soul and heart of those who break the entry ban, including those who are required to enforce the entry ban. I'm a little unsure whether there's any reason to say that because someone says they're going to break the entry ban to give their daughter a hug and not to steal wallets, they're going to be treated differently. The point is that they break the same provision, and they are aware that they break the same provision. The entry ban must apply equally irrespective of the intention of the offence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1518	I'll follow it up a little bit. The point here is that if you are taken after entering the country when you have an entry ban, it should be essential if you commit serious crime while you are here or if you don't. That's what the representative, Skei Grande, is talking about. The consequences for Norwegian society are different if you come to Norway to hug your daughter or if you come to Norway and commit serious crimes, as the representative Skei Grande said. That's the distinction I think the Council of State is not doing well enough, and I think it's breaking people's sense of justice. Both parts are illegal; the question is whether they should have equal punishment when the crime in one case is very serious and in the other case of a less serious nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1523	It is difficult to answer differently than what I have already answered that question. When you break the entry ban, it is the offence that is punishable, not the kind of intention you have to be in Norway after breaking the entry ban. What the judgment will be in each individual case will be up to the court to assess — what is aggravating and what is mitigating. So the starting point is that it is not the reason for the entry ban that can be significant, but that the entry ban is broken. Then it will be up to the court in the individual cases to deal with what is criminally sharp, and what is potentially degrading. I do not think the representative Andersen and I fully agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1530	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1546	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 30 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1555	Let me start by saying a few words about the work of the new Health and Care Committee on the 2014 budget. A lot of people are brand new in the committee, and a lot of people are brand new as big business representatives, and we've switched places in opposition and position. In addition, we have had first the budget proposals of the outgoing government, then the Budget proposals of the Right-wing Party-Government, and further changes have been made in agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. It has therefore, of course, been a challenging and, to some extent, a demanding task for us in the committee to go through. Health is a huge field, to which everyone has a relationship, and for which everyone wants a lot. I should like to commend the new committee for its work. We have conducted a number of consultations, we have kept deadlines and we have helped each other a lot. In addition, we have discussed a common wording in some areas. I'm proud of the committee that I'm allowed to be the leader of. So to the contents of the budget. Overall, the Right-Fremskrit Party government, in consultation and agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, has presented a strengthened health budget, with as many changes as possible in such a short time. I will not underestimate that I look forward to providing an overall budget next year, which we have made from the bottom of. But anyway, it's a fact that hospitals are now getting the biggest promise ever, with an increase of a total of 2.7 billion. kr. The hospital queue has increased steadily every year for the last eight years, and this had to be reversed. It just doesn't make sense to keep people waiting for something they're going to get anyway. It may cause further deterioration of disease or damage. Waiting can trigger pain and distress, often entailing high costs of sick pay and an increased risk of falling out of work altogether. In addition, there is a reduction in staffing and financial burdens for the employer. In the extension of an injury or serious disease, rehabilitation is essential to minimise the extent of harm and a very important tool for mastering the new challenges of daily life. Many private rehabilitation institutions have invaluable skills and available capacity. Therefore, the government will increase the purchase of these services. Proper timely rehabilitation is an important part of the recovery process. The long queues have also turned out negative by the fact that they have bought themselves out of the queue with a lot of money and have thus avoided waiting. A place between 300,000 and 400,000 people have now taken out health insurance, which is a sign that more and more people do not trust that they will get the help they need if the need arises. The government does not want such a two-part healthcare system, and waiting times and queues are important to address in this way. In general, there is a great deal to be addressed in the hospital sector. More than 1700 hospitals and several local hospitals have disappeared under red-green control. This has resulted not only in long queues but also in many corridor Asians. We know that there are delays in building mass maintenance, and we know that the medical equipment park is on arrears in renewal as well as significant challenges in ICT. I am therefore personally very pleased that we are now going to have a proper review of all these issues. The Government shall develop a comprehensive health and hospital plan. Now I have noticed that the Workers' Party, despite the fact that it has been against such a plan, is now terribly impatient. I have also noticed that the Workers' Party, as the only party that will keep today's management of the hospitals, is the party that is most impatient after a change. I choose to look positive at these signals. Now, when the Right Party government is going to find better and more appropriate ways to control hospitals, we're going to make sure that what we're introducing is better than what we have. Changeovers should provide improvements if you don't leave it alone. It's shown us the conversion process in the Oslo area. I find that even the outgoing government now acknowledges this. Then I see that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre in their comments are anxious that the development of a health and hospital plan will cause concern, anxiety and uncertainty in the companies. I can reassure these that the only ones who have expressed anxiety, anxiety and uncertainty are the red-green ones themselves. No one else has expressed such anxiety to me, and the Minister of Health has met with the regional health companies and assured them that they do not need to listen to the black paint. Their duties are determined. The red-greens are really generally scary. In particular, they are anxious for everything the new government will do differently. It is therefore necessary to recall that the majority of Norwegian people have sought new solutions, action, diversity and freedom of choice. Therefore, the specialist health service has to be reviewed. Therefore, the ISF share has to be increased to meet the activity target and therefore neutral VAT should be introduced, even if a minority in this room does not like it. Rehabilitation, intoxication and mental health must be lifted. At every budgetary hearing in the last eight years, we have heard the disappointment of the down-priority of these areas. This year, this disappointment was lacking. Several people now have hope of improvement because we have notified of escalation plans, free treatment choices, increased purchase of free capacity at private and non-profit institutions serving households by 300 million. kr and earmarking of 343 mill. DKK for rural development measures in municipalities. The government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has generally provided increased budgets and increased tax credits for gifts to volunteering, as well as a requirement that growth within hospitals be greater for drug and mental health than in somatic settings. Individually, they are important instruments – together they provide a full package. The Red-Greens state in their comments that data from Collaborative Data in recent years show greater growth in the cost of drug use and mental health protection, and that, therefore, it does not solve challenges to reintroduce this scheme. To that I would like to say that the Right Party government believes that the cost alone is not a suitable way to measure growth. What's important is the waiting time and the activity. If the waiting time is too long and the treatment is inadequate, it is very critical if you are satisfied to see only that there has been a cost increase. I have also noticed that we have never before experienced a resignation from the government, which so clearly criticizes itself for everything they have not been able to solve. By visiting the Storting website, we can read questions and interpellations promoted by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre during the last few weeks. Here, critical relationships that have been going on over the last year, or over the last few years, are emerging, and they ask what individual state councils will do to clean up. The Minister of Health has also been referred to with questions. It is clear that it has finally come up for some people that we have major health challenges. I hope these representatives continue to send questions, so that even more people get insight into what eight years of red-green government has given us. We're going to clean up, area by area, but it's not possible to turn all the rocks over a few weeks. An important part of cleaning up is to provide employees with increased knowledge through a level of competence, which we allocate 50 million. Add kr. If we're to succeed in good health care, we need to fend for all the skilled employees we have across the country, who daily save lives and perform miracles, and we need to lift the health care system as an attractive job for future generations. Innovation, well-being technologies, research and development are important keywords that are high up by the government. I also want to mention volunteering. After eight years at Stortinget, I have experienced an incredible number of strong moments. In my meeting with individuals and volunteering, I am constantly reminded of the enormous commitment that exists out there. Volunteering reaches everyone with its presence, empathy, knowledge and diversity. I am therefore proud of the strengthening that is now in this budget, much thanks also to the Left and Christian People's Party. We are unusually co-ordinated and agreeing on the value of volunteering as part of the public offer, and will also, in the years to come, fend for them. The government also promises support for dental treatment for groups with high needs. I am pleased that the government is proposing a new social security scheme for completely or partly toothless persons, as well as an increase in the level of benefits for the sick. The government's proposal to strengthen the allocation of dental services to victims of torture and violence and patients with severe dental distress is also very important and is now being taken. I think everyone understands the importance of having teeth. In the absence of teeth, or with severe mouth pain, the intake of nutrient-rich food is also automatically reduced, which in turn may lead to increased morbidity. It's good public health to give people the opportunity to have economic power to set their teeth, and especially when expenditures become disproportionate. As part of the recently adopted public health communication, prevention should have a stronger focus. It means a stronger focus on knowledge, including at kindergarten and school employees. Detecting early children who are struggling or who are subjected to care failure, bullying or abuse is essential for creating a baseline for an adult life. This budget is the start of a long journey to strengthen healthcare at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1617	On 5 December 2012 last year’s debate on the State Budget for 2013, the Chairman of the Committee, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, said: ‘The party believes that the public, in cooperation with private and volunteers, can solve everything. This is important for capacity, for diversity and for quality.’ I agree with Mr Kjos that an interaction between these actors is important in order to solve healthcare challenges. I am therefore surprised that the Right and Advance Party in the draft state budget for 2014 in its increase to the specialist health service earmarked 300 million. kr to private actors. Doesn't the representative of Kjønaas Kjos mean what she said about interactions in last year's debate? And is it more important to earmark money for the therapist and not for the patient?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1629	In the 2014 budget, we are increasing the budget by 2.7 billion. kr. That means that the public hospitals get 2.4 billion. kr, and then it's earmarked for $300 million. kr. to private. So I think the public gets more than enough to strengthen their offerings. Then we are aware that the public actually does not have enough capacity to get away from the queue we have, and therefore it is also necessary to strengthen the private ones. This is entirely in line with what was said in the budget debate last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1636	In our future Progress Party, a proposal for a representative on a national medical action plan to ensure the quality, competence and accessibility of users. In June this year, the Advance Party received the support of both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that such a plan had to be developed by the government. In the setting of this budget, none of the parties mentioned were able to agree on a comment stating that the Government Party and the Contracting Parties would do what they said in June, simply to submit such a whole plan. My question is, how can the Progress Party defend that they say it before the summer and when they come into government, isn't this so important? Has there been a game for the gallery when it comes to strengthening medical services in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1643	Now the government has been sitting a few weeks, and we haven't finished concluding on how we're going to continue working in all areas. So it's like a sample has been put down to do an overall system for dealing with acute diseases and injuries. We're also adding 50 million. kr for the reinforcement of the medical guard, and in the emergency medical regulation there is now a revision, so that overall this work has started well. When this is in place and we have all the facts on the table, it might be that we need to promote the requested plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1648	In the election campaign, the Progress Party – in my opinion – went out in a commendable way and slaughtered proposals from the Right on increased excesses in the health care system. In the government's proposal for an additional proposition earlier in the harvest, we already saw the first increase in the excess. Can the representative of Kjenaas Kjos tell us whether it is relevant for the Progress Party to participate in several self-proprietary applications during this period, or can she guarantee us that no more such will now come, in line with the Advance Party promised before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1653	There is now an increase in the proportion of revenue and price increases in this budget, but the government platform is clearly leading to a reduction in the share of revenue. It was an important criterion for the Progress Party. Of course, it'll be up to debate every year, when we're going to make our budgets, but we're going to keep the total balances at a low level.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1658	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1662	In a major talk about our hospitals four months after he became Minister of Health, Jonas Gahr Støre said the following: ‘Many have an opinion on foreign policy. Everyone has a health experience.» After having been a fiscal politician for many years, but in the last few months, I have had the pleasure of putting my whole work into the health field in Norwegian policy, I would like to add: almost everyone has an opinion about Norwegian tax policy. Everyone thinks something about health. That's not nice. Everyone – absolutely everyone – has one or more experiences with the Norwegian health system. And that's not nice people are engaged. Absence of good health – seriously or not – does something to our lives. Nothing is so fundamental to being able to live free, good lives as good health in the widest sense of the word. And very little other than that everyone should feel confident that our common health care system is set up on the day we need it, is so important that we, as individuals and countries, dare to invest in the future. The Labour Party had until election the highest political responsibility for Norwegian healthcare for eight years. At that time a lot has happened. I'm going to give you some examples of both results and what I'm most proud of. However, I would also like to state that, when we are discussing the budget for the healthcare sector for next year, there are still too many people who do not feel that Norway is preparing for them or theirs when they need it. Still, too many people are waiting for treatment they are entitled to in time. Still, families are fighting with the municipality, for example, about a worthwhile life for their mother or father in their last days in the care of the elderly. Still, there are fathers and mothers who feel the despair that care about drugs is not able to provide good enough help with the family to get, for example, the help they need. the addicted daughter out of the eternal vicious circle of drug abuse, humiliation and powerlessness. But the question we as elected representatives have to ask ourselves is, what is going to happen to do something about the unresolved problems we have in common? I think we should bet on what we know works. Over the last few years, we have shown a willingness to finance through increased quality awareness and extensive coordination in the specialist healthcare service and to increase treatment capacity by nearly 1.7 million more investigations and treatments. And Norwegian patients survive many serious diseases to a far greater extent today than before. Many of these coordinations and reorganisations in hospitals have been controversial, and not all have been entirely successful. But it has been right to show a willingness to control. My claim is that in the years to come, we will not escape a massive need for funding for health care in our country. But we can't believe that money should solve everything, we need to organize ourselves better, more efficiently and be willing to make tough transitions even in the years that come, if we are to have a hope that Norwegian patients will get what they need – a world-class healthcare service that has capacity, quality and service as its characteristics. That is why, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, I have expressed concern that the Right and the Minister of Health have warned that it may take many years before we may have a new system for this very thing in place. It creates uncertainty at a time when we should build on what is good – not create an arena of uncertainty. Nor do I believe that the solution to these challenges, as I described, is to develop a partly comprehensive commercial health service on the side of the public health service – especially when private, commercial clinics are supposed to be able to obtain payment from the common funds, such as the public health service. is going to pay for our common hospitals today. Then go to the budget position itself. What we're discussing today is really a main component and an additional component, with a little dash back, because it's been a deal here in Stortinget. The proposal for a State budget, presented by the Red-Green Government in October, contained a strong commitment in a number of areas of health. Let me briefly mention some: historical increase in funding for patient treatment, ICT and quality in specialist health services, increased health research, new research study on cancer drugs, follow-up to the development of the care sector in municipalities — including a liberal increase in municipal income and grants for the construction of care facilities. The proposal also included new proposals on how to extend the offer to the youngest in the health centre and in the school health service, and various interventions in the field of drugs, to mention something. Much of this was retained in the additional budget of the Right-Fremskritsparte government. That is good, and several of the new additional proposals promoted by the government will also receive our support. But it should really just be missing. The Right Party and the Advance Party did not resist the temptation to use more oil money when they were given the opportunity. They proposed, and were adopted, in the financial position earlier this month, that the use of oil money should increase by a further 4 billion. kr next year. Then it was just to be lacking that they did not also follow up with new proposals, and supported the good ones, in the health field. On the other hand, it is very disappointing that the Right Party and the Advance Party have not been able to use one extra penny of the money they have provided from the oil fund to strengthen the treatment capacity and quality of the public hospitals. So over a few short weeks, the Right Party and the Advance Party were able to show what they were giving the highest priority. They were able to raise $8,000 million. kr for tax cuts. And here I'm referring to for the sake of order, so none of us forget it: the taxes are distributed so that if you make over 2 million. kr, you will get an average of NOK 40,000 lower tax, while ordinary people will be eaten off with a 50-eye a day. But the right one should be right. The suspension proposes to strengthen capacity in addition to what the Stoltenberg budget had in it. It's good and important, and many of the proposals will help people faster. But once again, it would almost only be missing when you have so much more money at your disposal by being willing to take the chance of spending more oil money. Of the four thousand million extra oil money, the Right Party and the Advance Party have managed to obtain a net of approx. 3-400 million. kr extra for health. I don't think that's in line with what you could expect of these parties after the election campaign. The Labour Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, has, without spending more oil money, as the government parties propose, found money in our alternative budget line to support several of the proposals. In the case of proposals on e.g.: However, we believe that the ideological skyscrapers of the Right and the Advance Party must go. We need to be sure that this money will be put into action, where it will be most effective for patients – regardless of whether the capacity increase takes place in public hospitals or in private homes. It can't be smart to earmark the money for private people, without having the smallest opening so that some of our public hospitals might get as much or more patient treatment out of this money. In addition to this main act, the Workers' Party is also in favour of reversing a number of the smaller, and partly petty, cuts proposed by the new government in the field of health, which the Right Party and the Advance Party continue in the setting. We also do a few minor additions in our alternative budget, for example. support for the Fontene Houses, the educational work of sanitary women against violence and abuse and a further increase to the Church's SOS. This budget harvest, and the setting we are discussing today, have been marked by a choice, a government shift and some hectic new weeks for the new government. It will only be next year, as the committee chairman pointed out quite correctly, that it will crystallize itself properly in which direction the Right Party and the Advance Party will take the Norwegian healthcare service. For the moment, the questions are many, and the answers are fuzzy and unclear. However, I can promise from the Labour Party that we will support proposals for improvements we are in favour of, but at the same time clearly point away from proposals we believe is not the right medicine. We will support proposals that further develop healthcare services in dialogue with patients, users and employees. We will support proposals that ensure robust public health and care services where we see prevention, treatment and rehabilitation in the context – and where we see the whole human being. We will support proposals for increased cooperation between municipalities and hospitals, and that all levels apply today's and tomorrow's technologies as quickly as possible. This makes services even better — for individual patients, for employees and for society. At the same time, we must work for public health and prevention. We do that to reduce unfair health inequalities and to give children equal opportunities. Then we must prevent disease. Here each has a responsibility, but the community should also take responsibility for building a healthier society for all of us. Finally, I would just like to point out that even in the Workers' Party we do not believe – or to say so in another way: one must go all the way back to 1923 or 1924 because the Workers' Party believed that society had been built once and for all, and that one had achieved the perfect society. That was when the Workers' Party left the Communist idea – in 1923. After that, we have believed in a society that is constantly changing. Policy and society also need to change in response to new needs. Therefore, even after eight years of red-green rule, it will not be a perfect health service in Norway. Who thinks it is? At least I don't think so. Therefore, it should not come as a surprise that the new government is faced with demands, criticism and wishes for improvements, which could have been done, of course, before, but for which we now see that this is necessary. And that's why I'm presenting our alternative approach to health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1706	I have always heard the representative of Micaelsen's concern about the kind of society that the new government's policy will give us. It seems that no greater descent could have hit our country than that the red-green government lost the election. But the voters have spoken, and a large majority of them say yes to others and better health care solutions. Against its own and strong warnings, the red-greens incorporated a significant proportion of the funds earmarked for rural activities in the municipalities into the free income. As a result, many municipalities have lowered their efforts in this field. When Micalen presents his complaint song, I have to ask, does he mean that the new government's earmarking of 343 million. kr for fighting is the kind of policy that the Labour Party in the election campaign thought would make our society colder and less inclusive – if the Advance Party came into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1715	I myself think that I have been quite careful in criticising the new government and the Right and the Advance Party, precisely because of respect for the fact that it will of course take some time before the new policy is launched. But I noticed that there are more people who think I have to calm down even more. That's what I'm going to write behind my ear. With regard to the community's approach to drug use, we believe that it is important and correct for many municipalities to bet on the drug field in the municipalities. But at the same time we believe that it must not be up to us here in Stortinget to detail how this should be done. That is why we trust – and I also thought I was an honorary word in the Advancement Party – that those who sit tight on those who need help most are the ones who should make decisions about what should be done in their municipality. Then I notice that the government was unable to obtain new money for the care of the drug. They had to take the money from others who need help, for example. care for the elderly or the schools in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1724	We're treating more and more people, and we're saving more lives. It challenges us outside the municipalities, for all those who are rescued or treated in the specialist health service must also have an offer outside the municipalities. That's why I and a lot of people – although it's in a different budget, it's about health – wonder that the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government could cut 214 million. kr to those who require it the most, and who need it the most. So did the blue-blue ones. Why did the Workers' Party do that, and why did they also reduce the reimbursement rate from 80 pst. up to 77.5 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1733	Now I understand what the replicator is asking about. The reason why this proposal came, is two-part, I would say. First of all, we saw that we couldn't point out any medical criteria, either in volume or in quality, which meant that expenditure went up sharply. Secondly, I think it is important to bear in mind that, at the same time, we proposed a sharp increase in the total income of municipalities. We think it was right to bring this down now, but I'm open to discuss that if this turns out to have a huge impact on individual municipalities – because it can be very demanding for municipalities that have particularly resource-intensive users – we will review this if the fact is that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1740	Access to equivalent healthcare is a right, regardless of diagnosis, gender, personal economy, residence, ethnic background, functional capacity and sexual orientation. Many today are in health queues, and under the red-green regimes a health care system has developed that favours health insurance. The number of persons insured with health insurance has increased dramatically, and it is possible for them to do so with good advice, or for those who have an employer who insure their employees. This government, as a former government, will also allow health businesses to purchase more services from private operators to bring down the queues. Then you shouldn't need insurance. However, in the comments from the red-greens in the setting – and also by the representative of Micaelsen’s posts here – it can be interpreted as a private supplement, e.g. Purchases of X-ray services to reduce cows shall not be permitted, at best reduced: [[President clubs]] Does it not worry the representative Micasen that there are still more people taking out health insurance? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1749	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1752	No, I think you have to be a member of the Right Party or the Advance Party to interpret comments – or as I put it – in this way. The working party has a very pragmatic relationship with the private sector. That is why we have, for example: in the course of our government's term, the efforts that go through the purchase of private health services have almost doubled, but this should be done under public authority and control. I guess that's what might be the difference between the Right and the Advance Party. While the Right has gone to the elections on a mega-reform that is going to expand what I fear will be a big commercial run-in to a separate sector, along with the public, I think that's the way to get a more classed health care system. So I have no faith in that. As for the care of those who have purchased private health insurance, I remember that the Right was the one who made it possible to get tax deductions to get exactly that kind of health insurance in place, while the opposite is now being said: that it is just going to be a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1759	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1762	Much is good in the Norwegian health care system, both in the specialist health service and in the care out in the municipalities. As a nurse myself, I know a little about some of the tasks they face, and I also know that we have the potential to get an even better health care. A good deal of conciliation between the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration and the Christian People's Party and the Left has contributed to a health budget that shows a clear direction and a new course in health policy. First of all, it's about doing what we said we should do, and I'm glad that the voters can trust us in that area. We promised to bet on quality and freedom of choice in health care, and we promised to give more priority to those who need it most. With this budget, we are doing well what we said we should do. The Public Health Service is the bearer of Health-Norway. The budget we're going to adopt is the largest strengthening of public hospitals in the time, with 2.7 billion. Total kr. We promised the voters to use all the good forces to bring down the health cows. So let's do that -- 300 million. NOK more to increase the purchase from ideals and private ones. It is about increasing the capacity to receive mental health care, about several rehabilitation sites, about long-term drug treatment facilities, and about the purchase of MR from private X-ray institutions — all to put the patient in the centre and to reduce the strain that many now experience by having to wait a long time in line. We all know what waiting time in the healthcare system can mean. It threatens the patient’s quality of life and creates great insecurity for both patients and relatives. Unfortunately, we still define some patient groups as weaker than others in the public health debate, especially those who are addicted to drugs and those with mental disorders. I am pleased that the government is facing a clear change of course with a social profile and in the budget more priorities for those who need it most – with targeted measures: first of all, by reintroducing the golden rule of greater growth in drug and mental health, individually, than in somatic matters and by introducing free treatment choices. The health service is much more than the specialist health service. The vast majority of us get our health needs met locally in our municipalities, either through the health care establishment and the fixed medical system or through the various institutional services. We went to the choice of increased quality and freedom of choice – also in the care services. We deliver by granting 92.3 million. kr more, so that the subsidy framework for lucky day care spots can increase from 2000 to 2500 in 2014. Despite the fact that the Stoltenberg government tried to present it as if they were in the path of expanding the number of places, the fasitium is a completely different one. There is a long way to go and, at the same time, the need is increasing. We know that in order to improve the quality of care, we need a significant level of competence. A unanimous committee agrees with this, but it is the government parties, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, who put more money into the pot of the municipalities. Once again, by action and priority, we show that we deliver. Several should be able to go from unskilled to skilled. It is beneficial for the individual health worker, but we also know that it strengthens the quality of care. Especially in the area of care and mental health in the municipalities, I am proud of the good agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left here in the Stortinget. Together, we're going to give 20 million. to voluntary measures in the field of drugs and 16 million more. for mental health in municipalities. It gives hope to many who today have projects that need funding or that have exciting new measures on the steps. Here I especially want to mention the street football through Norwegian Top football. By strengthening the budget by 5 million. kr we hope that Fredrikstad Football Club and Stabæk Football get competition from several street teams. These clubs have gone ahead and shown how top football takes on important social responsibility, through activities that increase self-esteem and quality of life, and create new opportunities for heavy addicts. With more money in the pot, we hope several teams get on the track. Some items are in the billion class in our budget, others are less in crowns, but still have great significance. The government has followed up its earlier promises to grant money to promote increased knowledge and information on relief and care at the end of life for children and young people. This is 2 million. to develop skills, which will mean much too seriously ill children and their relatives. The budget we are adopting today shows that voters can have full confidence that the government has started up the important work of creating a stronger social network and a health care system that is the health care of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1789	Free school fruit is a health priority to prevent social health differences. Right has always been an active opponent of giving free fruit to children and young people at school and argues that it is more important to strengthen the skills of teachers. In Bergen’s Official Journal today, we could read that 17 out of 18 government departments have free fruit for their members and politicians. They have 130 tons of free fruit this year, at a value of 3.8 million. kr. My question is whether Right will also go into the process of removing the free job fruit scheme in the departments and instead encourage the departments to use the money for knowledge and further education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1798	As a health politician, I think that I should primarily take responsibility for health policy, and I intend to answer that today. What's important about the Right bet within school is that we just want to give priority to the most important things first. That is why we have said that a teacher’s vow is important. This is why we want Norwegian students to be able to cope better than we saw last week that they could come from the PISA report. Then we very much want parents to be able to participate in a school fruit subscription scheme, and that is what we are going to encourage. But I am not going to speak on behalf of departments other than the Ministry of Health, and I am concerned with the health budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1807	The representative Wilhelmsen Trøen mentioned MR in his post, and I think there is a broad consensus about the need for more people to have faster access to that field. However, we have wondered about the government's designation of this money to private institutions. When SV asked the Ministry about this in the context of the budgetary procedure, we were told that the government had not examined whether there was any available capacity in the public health service or the possibility of using this money as effectively there. Is it that the Right is more concerned with spending money on increased private capacity than giving money to increased capacity, regardless of where it is to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1816	Let it be clear: it is the patient who is at the centre of the Right Health Policy and of the Government's health policy. I also listened to the exchange of words that has been in this Chamber related to this question, a few weeks ago, and the Minister of Health answered it very clearly. The fact is, patients are in line. Patients are waiting too long for diagnosis and for treatment to start. Therefore, it is important to use the available spare capacity of the private to carry out this diagnosis. Many of these patients are also out of work. It's not only sad for the social economy, but it's also a heavy burden for the individual patient, who doesn't come back to his normal life, his usual everyday life and his usual job. That's why we want to put the patient in focus and treat more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1823	In the Declaration of Accession, the Government stated that it would introduce free treatment choices into the health system for: ‘to reduce treatment queues and waiting time, and to strengthen patients’ freedom of choice’. The intentions are good. But does the Right not see that such a free right of establishment, with suction pipes right into the state treasury, will distort health resources towards the most resource-intensive patients, and where many doctors are interested in establishing a treatment offer? We are already receiving feedback today that we lack key personnel in large parts of public hospitals. How does the Right view that a more market-driven healthcare system would distort the offer of those sitting at the bottom of the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1835	What's the biggest challenge in today's health after eight years of red-green government, is that it's just those who can pay for themselves, who get treatment first. That's why it's important for this new government to use all the good forces. Therefore, it is important to give the patient rights — the patient’s right to choose treatment — not depending on whether you have a health insurance or not depending on whether you can pay for it yourself. The main elements of free treatment options are that we want to treat more more more more more quickly. But it is clear from the current government and from the government platform that the public hospitals will always be the bearer. That is where all emergency treatment takes place, that is where all research and education takes place. But giving the patient the right to actually choose, and getting out of line to wait for treatment, we think is good health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1842	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1845	There is a special situation this year, with a government change and the presentation of additional propositions. On that basis, the Christian People's Party did not present its own budget, but is grateful for the budgetary agreement that came between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Health and care work is a field that means too many. Yeah, there's another party in this room that tends to say that it's for the most people. And that's absolutely true. I really want to thank all those who work in this sector. They're doing a fantastic job. They meet all people in the most vulnerable situations in life. In all situations it is possible to find faults, but it is also always such that things can be done better. However, I would like to say that we live in a country with a great health service. It's the workers out there who make this a great health offer for us. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring equivalent services, regardless of residence, age, social background or gender. Quality, safety, availability, trust and care, with the patient in the centre, should characterize our health care system now and forward. We must ensure good public health measures that are disease prevention and health promotion. It also means that early efforts both in terms of habilitation and rehabilitation are important to ensure quality of life and health care. Health and care are services from the beginning of life to the end of life. The Christian People's Party is committed to having a good care for pregnant women, so that the child gets a good start in life. That is why we must ensure proper controls on pregnancy. We need to have a good follow-up service to a midwife's hospital for those who live far away from a hospital. It also means that we must build mother and father as parents both before and after they have their child. Everyone who gives birth has to go home to their municipality afterwards. Then it's important that we have good capacity at the health center to follow up the kids who come to the world. So maybe you can look ahead and think that there might be new ways to work, even in health care work, so that we can take care of our children much better. Innovation I think is a key word also in relation to health station work, perhaps in meeting with kindergarten. Unfortunately, all children are not born functionally healthy. Many have challenges in their lives from the very beginning. That's why the Christian People's Party is concerned that the prematurity departments around our country are going to have both enough competence and sufficient staff to do the important job. I am grateful that, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, we got back the unsocial cut of 214 million. kr for resource-demanding services, and the level of compensation increased from 77.5 to 80 pst. – because it is precisely these premature children that we, among other things. Talking about - something the other games actually didn't fit in. I'm also grateful that the Christian People's Party introduced, and it became, a common note from the Committee on the Children who have received cerebral parasites, where children stand in particular long queues at Oslo University Hospital, which actually has a national function. It is important for the Christian People's Party that precisely these children and all the other children with special challenges, get help early. It gives the family and not least the children themselves better quality of life and dignity. The world has become more and more complicated. Therefore, unfortunately, more and more children are experiencing mental illness. Why is that so? It's actually a study worth in itself. But I think the requirements for children and young people are so big – yes, for adults too – that the danger of falling outside is still hanging over us. Children and young people are waiting to be treated for their mental health problems. It thinks the Christian People's Party is wrong. They should and should be given priority. The Christian People's Party is grateful that more money has been spent on psychiatry, but we also need to do something with the supervisor of mentally ill children and young people to make it clear who in the municipality is responsible for following up mentally ill children and young people when they come out of the specialist health services and hospitals, this because these kids can easily fall between several chairs. If it's the doctor, if it's the health center, if it's mental health, if it's the PPT -- who's responsible for following them up? It's unclear in the supervisor. Children and young people also experience that they may develop diseases or have an congenital disease that in a shorter or longer time leads to their actual death. We're not good enough at palliation. We don't have enough skills to take care of children and young people and meet them that you're actually going out of this life. We're not good enough at competence or tough enough to sit by the bed and follow them out. I'm glad it's added 2 million. kr to children's palliation, but I think that's just a beginning. This is important to give children a decent and good end to their short lives, and it is important for those who will live on afterwards. There are many challenges in the course of a life, and it's not like everything's going on for some of us, whether we live in our rich country, Norway. More and more people fall under the iron grip of the Russians, and I am very grateful that one in the cooperation agreement has said that there will be more spending on drugs and psychiatry. I'm grateful that the red-greens added 200 new places to the next year, and that one gets an increase of 255 million. kr. So there was another increase, of 20 million. kr, in agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is to go specifically to low-threshold offers. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we will once again reopen the use of the work of NPISHs in this field. They can do this, and this they have to use for. This is a work that was built up by the previous government. The government can now rapidly use the capacity already existing under existing contracts with health businesses and within procurement legislation as it stands. It is important to ensure the long-term and predictability of non-profit actors. We all want the longest possible to manage ourselves in life, but many of us come to a point where we need help, because the age or state of health gets us. The Christian People's Party is pleased that one in cooperation has now said that one will reform the arrangements for care pay and care allowance and not least legalize the right to user-led personal assistant. The Christian People's Party has for many years proposed in its alternative budgets to increase its share to 50 pst. grants for the construction of nursing homes. I am grateful that the Right Party and the Advance Party have listened to this clearly and put it into their budget, and even increased to 2,500 places. The Christian People's Party believes that several municipalities will take advantage of this. It is also important in this advent time for the Christian People's Party to say that we would sometimes wish we had done the port both further and higher. In terms of daily provision for people with dementia, the criteria for being allowed to participate in these projects should be both higher and wider for municipalities. As of today, the criteria are only linked to investment, but that is not what costs the municipalities. If one is to increase the activity offer so that one is also open in the evening, it is the staff who costs. The criteria should have been increased. I think that's why there's money available in the account – it's the personnel costs that are going to be great. We're all going to get out of this life once and for all. We're all gonna die once or twice, whether we're young or old. It is important for the Christian People's Party with a good and worthy end to life. Palliation is not only important for children and young people, but also an important part of an entire healthcare system, until we die. The Christian People's Party believes that we can be better both qualitatively and in the way we do it. It ensures more dignity and a whole health care system if we get better treatment for dying patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1881	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1884	I'm going to trick myself into recording miracles. A political miracle has occurred after the new government took over, and it is that the alcohol tax has increased more than the Stoltenberg government proposed. I am pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party see that the alcohol tax is important in order to have a restrictive and sensible alcohol policy. I suppose the representative from the Christian People's Party believes the same thing, but I could imagine some reflections around just that the new government is actually increasing the alcohol charge a little bit more. I would like to ask if the representative sees that this will last, that this will be followed up in the next few years and not just a bluff for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1890	Yes, this representative is very pleased with the wonder, so I believe in it! I also think it is great that the fees have actually increased. I think that's one way of working, because the suffering that alcohol and alcohol cause, we can't just treat at one end without taking action in the other. So I wish that the red-green government had done it in the last period, and I'm grateful that it's based on the way it does now. At least the Christian People's Party will be the ones who will join the class if there is a reduction in the fee, and you will hear from us then – that we will actually increase if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1895	Both in the cooperation agreement and in the budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Progress Party, we read that there is a basis for an increase in input-driven funding, the introduction of neutral VAT and the introduction of free treatment options. I have perceived the Christian People's Party as more of a few with us in that we have enough market management in the health sector. The Christian People's Party has even criticized us – very well – for not reducing the ISF from 40 to 30 pst. My question is how can it be that the Christian People's Party is now involved in creating multiples in this room to increase effort-driven funding from 40 pst. to 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1900	I'm the first to admit that we think effort-driven funding is a bad way to control the health care system. This I myself have worked with quite a lot in the specialist care services in the area of heart care. The Christian People's Party will be the ones who, in the current agreement, are holding on to the fact that we are not guided by what we get the most left for, but that it must be the severity and the disease that counts when one is going to do operations and priorities, and not what one gets left at the other end, if one gets 40 pst. or 50 pst. again. But that's part of the agreement we made. We're not comfortable with it, but we're going to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1905	The Christian People's Party and SV agree on a lot in health and care policy, and I can agree with most of the perspectives that were drawn up in Bollestad's posts. That is exactly why I would like to ask for another matter, where we have agreed at least before. This concerns the proposal for a so-called free treatment choice – what I prefer to call a commercial treatment choice, because it would give commercial operators considerable power over who is being treated – and how it should be prioritised. In the election campaign, the Christian People's Party, in my view, was very clear and good in its criticism of such a model, but in the cooperation agreement that came earlier in the autumn, the Christian People's Party and the Left nevertheless concluded that this would be carried out. Is it so that we can trust that the Christian People's Party continues to criticise this model, or has the Christian People's Party changed its view during the fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1910	I share the Lynsbakken and SV's concern that there should be a market-driven healthcare system. There must be a priority behind the fact that you have a right to health care in order to be able to assess at all. Then it also has to be that if you have a right to health care, and there is no capacity, then you have to be able to use it. But the Christian People's Party will be the first to stand behind the fact that it should not be the market that determines the need. It should be a disease that determines the need – and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1915	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1918	The country has a new government and a new political plurality. We also notice that in the field of health and care. The 2014 budget, which we are going to adopt today, differs in important areas from the health budget that the red-green government presented in the fall. We get more market management, more effort-driven funding, the introduction of neutral VAT to create even larger health shops and the prohibition of healthcare professionals from using budget growth to use free capacity in the public sector. The central party is today with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party and is making an alternative to the budget for the next year based on the proposal of the Red-Green Government. We emphasise that it is a public responsibility to promote health and prevent disease and ensure the necessary health and care services for the whole population. All shall have equivalent health services, irrespective of diagnosis, housing, personal finances, gender, ethnic background and individual living conditions. The goal is the most possible good years of life for all and reduced social health differences. We want a health care that ensures health promotion and prevention. We will strengthen the municipal health and care service to provide patients with a better supply closer to where they live. We want to facilitate a health-promoting lifestyle, making it easier to make healthy choices. Public health work on the Red-Green Alliance aims to be systematic and long-term so that public health is a cross-sectoral objective. Many of the public health efforts we've been doing in the last few years, I think, are going to be piling for years to come. Because not all our public health measures are the new government willing to reverse even if they want to. The municipalities and the local community are the most important public health areas. The effort must be made in all sectors and be anchored in the planning system, as the public health and public health reports suggest. We want to make sure that everyone who needs all day care will get it. It is then also necessary to extend home services so that those who want to stay at home or in a nursing home can do so. The efforts of relatives must be valued and respected. The daily activity of people with dementia will be a very important initiative in the future. In line with tomorrow's care message, we will develop an innovative healthcare service in the municipalities. Patients and users should be given a clearer role. Users and patients should be met with respect. Healthcare must be appropriate to the patient’s need for safe services. There are probably a lot of health and care ministers in other countries around the world who envy government council Bent Höie job. He will take responsibility for and control of one of the world's best-developed health services in one of the world's richest countries. In 2012, Norway spent about 270 billion. kr for health and care purposes. The Specialist willow stood for 114 billion. kr alone with its 101000 annual works. There has been a strong increase in resource use in recent years, and the activity of hospitals should continue to increase. In municipalities, the number of annual shifts in care services is about 130 000. From 2008 to 2012, the number of annual works has increased by 10,000. But there are still key challenges in the years to come. Although the health status of the Norwegian population is good, there are clear social health differences. Psychiatric disorders and drug dependence will increase the weight of the disease in the next few years. Psychiatric health problems such as anxiety and depression and problems related to drug use account for the majority of lost years of work. By 2050 there will be more than twice as many people over 67 years of age compared to today. There are significant challenges to living. Tobacco, alcohol, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet and obesity significantly increase the risk of chronic disease. It is also a challenge with too long waiting times for health services in some disciplines. There are also too many patients who experience poor quality or get damaged. The red-green alliance therefore prioritises money for more patient treatment in hospitals. We also focus on ICT, electronic interaction and medical-technical equipment in hospitals. We prioritise resources for practical research in regional enterprises, including further distribution of proton therapy centres. We also strengthen the community health service, with specific resources for own innovation programmes, own welfare technology programmes, a programme for an active and forward-looking related policy and strategy to strengthen and coordinate voluntary work in the sector. I am pleased with the special focus on psychologists in the municipalities and on strengthening the competence and quality of the local medical services. It is perhaps the health and school health service that has got the really big promise in this budget. This is a central prevention service, which also needs to be strengthened over the next few years. It is also very positive that there is a notable priority for public health measures in the red-green health budget, with a specific focus on better and safer drinking water. The paediatric vaccination programme shall include, as from July 2013, vaccines against infant diarrhoea caused by rotavirus. The vaccine will be able to prevent 900 hospitalisations and 7,200 medical consultations and is a very important prevention measure. Russ and psychiatry are two distinct areas that need strengthening in the years to come. In the state budget that the red-green government presented in the fall, there was already a strengthening of about 200 drug treatment sites in 2014. This would happen by buying more places from ideal companies. In addition, there will be a general increase in treatment facilities in the specialist services, where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have strengthened regional health care providers by another 300 million. through the financial setting based on the red-green government’s proposal to increase the capacity of mental health protection, drug treatment, rehabilitation and MR. The Government Party, including the Left and Christian People’s Party, will, on its side, earmark this effort for private. We think it has to happen where the health region thinks it will give the patients the best supply. It is a paradox that the public health service should be banned from using the extra bet to use free capacity in its hospitals. Privates are to be favored, and public priorities are to be lowered. The red-green government presented proposals to strengthen its efforts in the drug field in municipalities by 40 million. kr in 2014. It is worth noting that after the harsh criticism that today's government party has brought against the red-green government in the drug field, they do not allow a penny in extra funds for the rural community, even if they spend 4 billion. kr more of the oil money. They're just paying attention to the red-green bet. The Government Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left will reintroduce the so-called Golden Rule before the psychiatry, where an order of hospitals that the growth of intoxication and psychiatry should be greater than the growth of somatics. I would like to comment on this. I think this is cheap rhetoric and not an answer to the challenges. Firstly, hospitals have actually prioritised right in the last few years without this rule. Secondly, there is the real challenge in municipalities today. In the newspaper Our country today, there is a focus on the real problem, that young people before mental health protection are at risk of staying in hospitals for years. It says in the newspaper about Eivind, who is 38 years old and has our drafts for three years. Now he's staying at a closed ward at a psychiatric clinic at Haukeland University Hospital. Eivind tells us that what he really wants is his own municipal apartment. Clinical director Bovim describes the situation as dreadfully sad. He tells about the rehabilitation department in the district psychiatric center, which is full of patients waiting for municipal provision. She told me about patients who complain about being hooked up, who get passive and lay a lot in bed. They have nothing to work for, nothing to hope for. The presence is set to wait. According to a research report from SINTEF, 7 pst is complete. Of psychiatric patients, one in four admissions could have been avoided with better municipal provision. It shows that the government's bet is wrong, they start at the wrong end. A strengthening of the mental health field must start in municipalities. The government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left spend 4 billion. kr more of the oil revenue to lubricate the budget. Still, they don't have the money to give patients with a long way to go to hospital a more enjoyable overnight allowance. It is petty that they also take free fruit and green from the school students. I think it is unlikely that we have a health minister who defends a system and a cut, which we know leads to greater social health differences among children and young people. We have solid evidence that free fruit and green to elephants prefer folk greetings. We also have solid evidence that a subscription scheme is socially unequal, where it is the wealthy and wealthy parents who benefit most from this offer. It is not a good idea to say that this is a priority, but rather a focus on the further training of teachers. The purpose of free fruit and green is to improve people's health and to smooth out social health differences. Good teachers can probably do a lot of work, but not exactly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1955	The right has long called for an escalation in mental health. It's about human dignity, treatment when the patient needs it and, not least, being able to live as good a life as possible. The representative Toppe, who has had the opportunity to do something about this for eight years, said to the Official Journal of Bergen on 21 November that ‘it has been a major neglect over the year in the provision of mental health services in the municipalities.’ And on the other hand, ‘In retrospect, I see that we should continue to have the mental health escalation plan when it expired in 2008 with regard to the community’s investment,’ Something also Toppe confirms here. The red-green government proposed to phase out the mental health system in school. This has been reversed by the Right Party Government. How does the representative Toppe explain the importance of strengthening the efforts of the municipalities, while at the same time removing targeted mechanisms that work well in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1974	Thank you for the question. When it comes to mental health in the school, it was not a cut, but a re-prioritisation to another sector to strengthen the mental health work in the municipality. There had been some critical reports as to whether that system worked optimally, but if it turns out that they were crazy, as it has been suggested, we can reintroduce it. They've done it, and I haven't criticized it. When there is an escalating plan, I have to say that there was agreement on the Stortinget then that one should close that plan. Then we have followed very closely after 2009 the development of the municipalities. Year after year we've looked at the statistics, and we've been worried. I mean, we're not going to have a new escalation plan for the entire psychiatry right now. It'll be wrong. If we're going to have a new escalation plan, it has to be for the municipality, because that's where the pressure is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1981	After hearing the comments from the representative Toppe, it was to be expected that the setting was full of good suggestions on how to solve the problems. The representative himself referred to ‘Eivind’, which has been ready for printing for three years. The government that is now sitting here joined on 16 October of this year, so who here has reason to walk a little bit in themselves, I think I'm talking for himself. This setting is historic. It is not right, as the representative Toppe referred to from the Parliamentary Chair, that a proposal has been made. No, this setting is actually unique. For the first time in history – I repeat: for the first time in history – the opposition has not made a single proposal: not one amendment proposal, not one budget proposal. And then the question I'm asking the representative Toppe: how can you stand on the pulpit of the Storting and criticise this government when you haven't made a single proposal yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1989	I thought this would be a bit remarkable. The committee leader criticises us in his post to ask the Minister of Health a lot of questions and come up with interviews that show that we are criticising ourselves. And then Nesvik comes here and criticizes us for the opposite – that we didn't make any proposals in the budget. The point is – and I think Nesvik also understand – that there is a slightly special situation this year. We actually have a very own state budget that contains a lot of specific red-green proposals, which the new government has adopted into the bet. But I can promise Nesvik that next year we will make at least 17 proposals, as the Right Party and the Advance Party will come forward last year – for they I have spoken. I have to promise to do a better job next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e1994	I share Toppe's concern for the man in Bergen who had been in a closed ward for three years. So I have the following question: Do Toppe believe that any municipality, regardless of its size, is able to accept a patient who goes directly from a closed department and out to the municipality? Are we good enough in Kommune-Norway if we only have one patient with the diagnosis that's why he's in the closed section? Does the representative Toppe realize that we should perhaps have either an interaction reform with municipalities working together, or a half-way service for this particular group of patients who are so ill, as we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2001	I want to first clarify that those who are ready-to- print patients in the psychiatry are different. Some people are very ill and could be involved in such a two-way service, but a lot of people are not so sick, so it's quite natural that the municipalities will take care of them. So I think it's good recording Christian People's Party comes along. What's my point is that there's now a situation where such patients just accumulate in psychiatric wards. The Christian People's Party is talking about municipality size, and it is a well-known case – at least in Hordaland – that it is the largest municipality that has the biggest problems, with 40 patients in it waiting for a place in the municipality, while we see that there are small municipalities that can handle this. So we need both. I'm very concerned that we're getting a system for these patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2006	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2009	The left believes it is essential that we have a good and equivalent health service for everyone who needs it, when they need it. The health system must take the patient, the patient's suffering and the relatives seriously. Information, participation and quality assurance are necessary in order for us as patients to feel secure when we need help. We believe that a strong public health service is the best guarantee that the available health resources are used to create an equivalent offer with priority on a medical basis. In addition to public health, there must be room for private actors. We want to contribute to the further development of today’s cooperation between private and public healthcare providers, and in particular we believe it is important to strengthen the ideal and voluntary actors. I'm going to get closer to this. Today, we're discussing a framework of over 157 billion. kr for health, care and social benefits. It is the greatest health budget of the time As a newly elected representative, I am humble to the traditions and practices of the Storting. One of my advantages as a new one is that I come from outside with other experiences – among other things. from local policies and voluntary work related to public health. I have to be allowed to say that I'm a little worried that we're not cooperating too little across committees. It is my experience from municipal policy that there are some major reforms that we have not fully implemented and that have a significant impact on public health, professional participation and housing. I am thinking in particular of the great Nav reform where the state part is still very different from the municipalities. This is about the drug reform that we were through a few years ago, and it is also about the interaction reform that we are in the middle of. These major reforms largely concern both the Municipal Committee, the Labour and Social Committee and the Health and Welfare Committee. It is good that state subsidies for the construction of homes for the elderly who need good luck, for refugees and for drug addicts, to name a few, are increasing. Unfortunately, however, we do not see that the construction rate in the municipalities increases as the grant growth progresses. At a time when there is broad political agreement to deal with as closely as possible and at the lowest possible level, this is worrying. This is an important debate on capacity, quality and competence, on responsibilities, organisation and priority – and not least on specialisation. How special are you going to be in hospitals? What capacity and recruitment do we need to meet the challenges of primary health care? The left is pleased that the new government has taken action on the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has moved on to some tasks between departments, wants a municipal reform, and, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, is so clear that a national health and hospital plan is to be drawn up. This is an estimate of a necessary innovation, and I yearn to encourage us in Stortinget to also dare to discuss how we organize our work to adapt to the challenges of society and to dispose of resources so that they actually get where we want and believe. The left is both a radical and a moderate party. In money use, we are always moderate and responsible. In politics, we like to be radical. We therefore dare to say clearly that in health policy we will give more priority to those who need it the most. This requires re-priorities and improved interaction between different parts of the healthcare system. Social inequality in health is a growing problem and is linked to poverty. It is therefore very important to combat poverty to focus on preventive health care and treatment for those who are too often excluded — including in health services. This priority is clearly highlighted in our primary budget. But we are also pleased that the government parties met us in the budget negotiations, and that we see clear, radical footprints in the health budget. Priority shall be given to noise and mental health. There are increased health care resources for drug addicts; both prevention, detoxification, treatment and aftercare/rehabilitation. However, the goal must be not only restlessness but also a worthwhile life for those who are unable to become drug free. There is a need to provide proper treatment services, including: through increased use of medically assisted rehabilitation. Cross-disciplinary specialised drug treatment must also be strengthened. Several thousand are in line for drug treatment, while several drug treatment sites have been closed down in recent years. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to bring out a baby. This applies to children as dependants of addicted parents. The bulk of the funds have been allocated to a preparatory project in Uppland, where work is underway to standardise the treatment process for pregnant and young children’s parents with drug problems. Mainly, more coordinated procedures and increased interaction between the health centre, child protection, Nav and the paediatric psychiatry in hospitals are involved. At the same time as professional work, they work in parallel with strengthening user involvement. Here, RlO, BAR and Filmmaking are drawn as co-players to include children's perspectives and needs. When we know that only in Uppland and Hedmark are over 4,500 children with parents facing drug problems, this says something about the national challenges we face and the need to interact and prioritise. Some may object that more health sisters and midwives, as the Left prioritized, are not radical and innovative, but that is actually absolutely necessary. In the past and past efforts allow us to prevent or postpone more specialised treatment. It sticks in me when I hear reference that adult psychiatry prefers to bully institutions and bed places for addicted parents, while child psychiatry tries to win through with measures in the housing situation and practical arrangements to strengthen care. There are two completely different approaches. Then we have respect for the fact that these are difficult balances. The tragic incident in Vanvikan recently is an example of that. The left is of the opinion that we need innovation in mental health. The aim must be to provide more lowthreshold services in municipalities, where it is possible to obtain help quickly without referral. In this way, we can prevent more minor mental health challenges from developing into more serious mental disorders that need to be addressed in the specialist healthcare system. The left considers that there is a wide scope for action to strengthen both public health, mental health and drug prevention capacities, in particular through more research, more social entrepreneurship and increased use of voluntary and non-profit actors. The red-green government shall be commended for its agreement with the voluntary sector. The left wants to move forward with such an agreement, which is more committed, and believes that the time has come to establish a greater share of health growth in the krona in the voluntary and non-profit sector in the next few years. Whether it should be at the expense of growth in the specialist health service is an interested debate in itself. In the short term, it may be both irresponsible and inappropriate, but over a ten-year period, it should be an ambition to have a significant public health and voluntary escalation plan. It is both moderate economy and politically radical – just as the Left wants zero VAT on fruit and green. This leads me to the large budget line in the budget of the Health and Welfare Committee. The health establishments, or hospitals, will have more than 118,5 billion next year. kr. We have a good hospital offer in Norway, especially when the blue lights are on. At the same time, there are challenges, including: as new technologies are still being developed, more research is being carried out, new treatment methods are being developed and new medicines are coming onto the market. This requires that, as elected representatives, we dare to ask questions, dare to prioritize and dare to challenge both ourselves and the professionals for new ideas and solutions. The left is fundamentally concerned that professionals should do their job. Form fields and bureaucracy shall be at a minimum necessary. This is a challenge as much to ourselves as granting authority to health bureaucrats. We believe that good management, planning and organization are absolutely central to getting as much health back for the money as possible. Last week I heard about a patient who had gone and waited for over a year for an operation in his foot. The appointment and the operating day were notified in good time, but three days before the introduction, the operation was postponed indefinitely. The reason was that further x-rays and MRs had to be taken. Probably this isn't the only case. Sometimes there is no more money to answer the challenge — sometimes learning from others, sometimes doing something new, and sometimes it is as easy as extending the opening time and making better use of the investment. My poor industrial experience has shown me that you can have large screens with bottleneck monitoring. When it boils in part of the production, it smokes rapidly on the resources. In hospitals, there seems to be a lack of monitoring of resource flow. When the stopper is radiology, it helps little to insert more surgery. In recent years, access to organs and the number of transplants has increased significantly. This has mainly been done by increasing information to the population and better organisation of donor hospitals regionally, which has allowed us to make better use of the capacity of the National Service of the Rikshospitalet. I think hospitals have something to learn from each other, but also from other countries and other industries. I perceive that the Norwegian and Danish hospitals are developing quite similarly in many ways, despite different political organisation. I miss more targeted and systematic cooperation in the Nordic region, both in terms of organisation, investment, treatment, second opinion, which we lack in national services in Norway, and research, to mention something. I see a different pace of digital development in the public sector in Denmark in general and in the health sector in particular. I see another geographical density in the future hospitals in Denmark, and I see that they have organized the investments in a different way. It is then worrying that the cooperation between Norwegian health companies and Danish regions seems to be absent, and that we have agreements with Denmark and Sweden on future health cooperation. Another important part of the national health and hospital plan is the organisation of free hospital choice — on the way to becoming a free choice of treatment. Here, there are major challenges on the part of patients, on the part of hospitals and on the part of family members. Here, we need to make an effort to facilitate free treatment choices. I see that my time is up, so I can't go into it any further now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2049	It's going to be a line change, so the representative might be able to expand something there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2052	First, I would like to say that I liked the introduction -- using the experience as a popular choice and then calling for more cooperation across the committees. There's probably more new ones thinking in the same path. Then I'm going to meet the representative with what he didn't get the time to say enough about. We have recorded that the Left will give more priority to those who need it the most. The left is also clear on the link between the fight against poverty and the need for more public health and treatment for those who are often excluded — including in the health sector. The question is this: Does the Left believe that a free right of establishment for private health professionals will provide more prevention and help to ensure that more of the resources go to those who, unfortunately, still fall outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2061	I thank you for the question. I see it as a constructive question. I think that's why we need the private actors to organize us better and increase our capacity, and that today the public is not able to make enough use of the investments and resources that lie there to help everyone who actually has a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2068	I heard the representative tell in the post that the Left is a radical and moderate party, that one will give priority to those who need it the most, and that one is concerned that health services are not linked to economic background, but that poverty often has a connection with it. Then it is that the red-green government proposed to double the overnight allowance for patients who have a long journey to health, up to NOK 700 per night. The government proposes to cut it to 500 kroner, while the Left in its alternative budget states that they do not see the need for this. I think it's a little incomprehensible that the Left, who is concerned that everyone should have equal opportunities for health, will not increase overnight expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2080	I thank you for the question. I was prepared to get that question. We believe that this is a matter of priority. Not everyone lives on a patient hotel, who needs support from the state to it. We see that the prices of hotel accommodation are increasing, and that this is not covered by the price increase, but we are in fact in favour of reprioritising to those who need it the most, and it is not the ones who need to stay at the hotel.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2088	I would like to ask the Left about what I challenged the Christian People's Party instead, because the Left also had in the election campaign a good and fundamental criticism of the model of so-called free treatment choice and shared our view that instead it could be a commercial treatment choice on the premises of commercial operators, which will mean that instead of prioritizing them with the greatest needs in the queue, we risk in many cases prioritizing the most profitable diagnostics. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Left is still standing by that criticism, and how they intend to deal with it that they have signed a cooperation agreement in which they will agree to introduce something for which there is really no majority in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2093	I thank you for the question. I'm going to wake up well to stand by a criticism, but we see some possibilities. The free choice of hospitals is the option that opens up a freer choice of treatment. Then it is necessary to create a capacity, and we agree that private actors should be involved in creating that capacity. Now, the real question is how do you arrange for the free choice of treatment to be made, and whether it is the patient’s wish for the treatment choice to be applied, or whether it is the public organisation that makes it possible to choose a faster and better treatment. We believe that in free hospital choice there is a way to create a good arena for it, and that the private actors can phase into it, and that free hospital choice as a separate enterprise can actually account for the purchases, acquisitions, of these places and this capacity, including among the private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2102	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2105	The starting point for this budget debate is a red-green proposal for a government budget, which also meant a historically high level of health, care and hospital spending. There have been positive developments in many areas in recent years. We treat them more and more, and we treat them better and better. That's why I'm going to guard myself against doing black paint on what the new government has done in a short time, but I'm also going to warn the new government parties not to do black paint on the situation in the health care system they're taking responsibility for. We have a health service we have reason to be proud of in Norway, but we also have significant challenges. Nor have the previous government parties at any time been subdued. It is therefore not unnatural that we follow up on the responsibility we now have as opposition, by asking questions to the Minister of Health, by addressing issues that we were concerned about when we had the power, and that we are going to continue to be concerned about today. The main lines of the red-green budget were to continue to focus on expanding the Community's health system. I note that after many years of criticism that that development has not gone fast enough, because the capacity has not been large enough, the Right Party government, when they have four billion more oil crowns to spend than our government had, chooses to prioritise a very small proportion of the money for health and care. Instead, the big tax cuts are the most important priorities. It is quite alarming when the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have provided as well of the honey pot as they did in the presentation of the supplementary proposal, that so little of it goes to this field, measured up to what is the government's only major effort, namely to reduce taxes, and then most for those who need it the least. One side of what has been changed within the health budget in the autumn, to which we in SV are particularly critical, is the increase in the ISF share. Intervention-driven funding has not been successful. Therefore, SV has used its influence in the government to keep it as low as possible. I believe it is a step in the wrong direction when the government parties will now increase it. There is a wrong answer to some of the challenges that many health care employees are challenging us on, namely, one day of work that has too much time spent on paperwork and too little on patients and incentives that lead to thinking too much store and too little quality in hospitals. I am therefore concerned about the consequences of the grip the government is now taking, and will strongly encourage me to think again about it when the government parties are now starting to work on structural changes in the hospitals. One issue we have raised during the budgetary procedure is the purchase of increased private capacity within the MR. I think, as I have also mentioned earlier in this debate, that the response we received from the government on this matter was alarming. When the government earmarks money for increased private treatment capacity, we expect the government to have examined whether it is possible to solve the same public health challenges, at least if it says that one is primarily concerned with building quality in the public health system, which is run by the community and is for the community. I noticed that the representative Troeen in the debate said that we had to use free private capacity. Yes, it is necessary that we make use of available capacity, but it is also natural that the government first examines what is possible to deal with more people in public, and so let alone do ideological priorities, but has a pragmatic approach that is about enabling health businesses to deal with as quickly as possible. Having said that, I look forward to the debate that the government has promised on structure. I will not be among those who call for a breach of promises if we get further postponements in the implementation of the commercialisation reform promised by the right parties, called 'free treatment'. I notice that there is now uncertainty about the starting date for it. I hope that it will be pushed as far as possible. I would encourage the government to go into another issue that, when we have challenged the government in the budget, we have noticed that they have not responded, and that is the consequences for public health services' access to professionals if you get a very rapid expansion of commercial capacity. It must be one of the main issues that must be addressed before the government launches dramatic changes in structure. Then we look forward to the debate promised by the government in a field where it may be possible to reach some agreement between the SV and the government parties, namely the future structure of the specialist health service. We know what we've been saying all along, that we want fewer terms, but we also want less store and less target management. I hope that we can start a debate on structural changes that will give us a situation where politicians are more in control of health policy and less in the small, less detailed regulation of the everyday lives of professionals. There's been a lot of talk about drugs and psychiatry on the part of government parties. I'm happy for that commitment, because we're dividing it into SV. We also agree that further escalation is needed. The image that there has not been an escalation is wrong. The idea that the golden rule, which the Right is talking about, is now being reintroduced after being out of play, is also wrong, because even though it has not been included in the mission letters in recent years, the growth still has at about the same rate as before. I still share the intentions and the desire to ensure that we maintain a percentage growth within this field. However, I would like to point out a major issue in terms of the future of care for drug users, and that is the conditions for the private non-profit sector. It can ensure that we have sufficient variation in the range and range of services and that there are some people outside the public health system who can take initiatives for new developments. There we lack what would be the most important step to ensure the stability of that sector, and it is not in the government's draft budget, namely to ensure that the use of tenders and long-term agreements were ignored in this sector. Fortunately, there is the fact that SV has come to the rescue of the government by promoting a proposal on that in Stortinget, which we are going to discuss later in this committee and in this Chamber, and which I would like to invite all parties to support. The government that went off earlier in the fall was committed to raising public health policy and raising the prevention perspective of health policy. One of the many measures introduced was about fruit and vegetables in school. I have noticed that the Right had no particular desire to discuss it, since it belongs to the responsibility of another committee and the responsibility of another department, but it is very relevant to the debate we have today. I believe that this is an example of both short-term thinking and deprioritisation of the public health field that support for fruit and vegetables in secondary schools is gone. It was with interest that I read Bergen's Official Journal today, which could tell that all departments, as close as one, have fruit and green arrangements for their employees. My expectation to the Right is that they take the initiative to abolish these arrangements, so that instead the money can go to make good bureaucrats and good politicians even better, in line with the line that applies to our children. Finally, the chairman of the committee said something that I want to join wholeheartedly to: everyone understands the importance of having teeth, she said. I think that's a cross-political agreement! But then I'd also be allowed to say that in a budget where you spend extra money, where you can afford to give big tax cuts to those who have the most, it's petty to cut free dental control for people over 75 years, which is used by 14,300 people this summer. I think that is a greeting to the elderly from the Progress Party that many had not expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2138	In my region, Health South-East, according to Free Hospital Choice, there are now 13 weeks waiting time for young people under the age of 18 who need investigation or specialist assistance for anxiety and depressive disorders. We know that in this area you can of course buy yourself for faster treatment, both in psychiatrists and psychologists, if you can afford it. I'm not against parents using private psychiatrists or psychologists, but I'm against the fact that it's the wallet to decide if children should get help. Then I noticed that the red-greens believe that there is no valid reason to increase the capacity in mental health protection too by the public purchasing treatment from private people. Does the representative Lysbakken not believe that 13 weeks' waiting time is unsustainable? Or does Lysbaken believe that children and young people should continue to wait in the public queue for mental health protection week after week, even if waiting time can be reduced because of the capacity of the private?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2145	I agree with the heart that it is especially important to reduce the waiting time within psychiatry. We also know that this is one of the patient groups that are most vulnerable to long waiting. That's why we're concerned about it. We have also shown in our alternative budget how we have wanted to use increased room for action to strengthen capacity. Our criticism of the government is that we believe that the government parties are staring blindly at the opportunities that exist by using private and commercial actors, and not sufficiently looking at what kind of opportunities there are to create increased capacity within the public, if we spend the same money on it. That is why we want as much money as possible that is free and open, which can be used both privately and publicly, where there is capacity, instead of the designation of private alternatives that the government is now running.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2152	In the class struggle on December 3rd, the Lightbakken, together with the Center Party, attacked the Minister of Health. The matter was about the increased appropriation for the purchase of MR studies from private individuals. The allegations were about private individuals who would make gross profits, tax havens and a government that was completely uncritical for private use. But on August 15, this year, we could, among other things, in the Austrian leaf read that the red-green government would have down the MR cows and granted 20 million. kr extra in the current year for the purchase of services from private individuals. As I see it, the government is now continuing what the red-green promised in the election campaign. So then I ask, what has happened lately that makes the private, which was so important and right to spend millions on for the red-greens less than four months ago, now called the Greeks and sharks in tax havens, and goes at the expense of the public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2159	The claim of money for tax havens was not something either the representative Toppe or I invented, but what the class struggle wrote about, according to my information, because it is true that some commercial actors are also owned within the Norwegian health service by companies that have such a structure. It's a serious cross of thought, because that means that money we grant for better patient treatment, goes to the profit of these types of companies, and in my view, it's hardly an effective way to spend this money. That is one of the reasons why we should strive to make the best possible use of public capacity. Then we've never been against buying private space when it's necessary, for people to get treatment, but what we've been questioning about this fall is why the government hasn't investigated whether the same money could give places and increase the capacity within the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2166	The Eivind example from our country today is mentioned earlier here. Under the red-green government, housing construction was earmarked for municipalities. There was more money, but there were fewer dwellings. In Finnmark, if we go there, the Finnmark collective is about to be closed down. There is no drug supply in Finnmark. Jansne's Psychiatric Hospital is being laid down. Is there anything the representative Lightbakken sees that the red-green government could do differently in order to avoid a whole part of the country losing such an offer, and that voluntary and non-profit actors could more effectively maintain an important offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2173	I have to admit that I do not know the matter the representative refers to, in detail, but I am on a general basis fully open that our government could do things differently in many cases. We're definitely going to point out a lot of examples of that next year when we're making our first own alternative budget. We are open to support all measures that point in the right direction. I am committed to using the forces of the non-profit sector in the health sector to a greater extent. That's precisely why we have the strong commitment also to draw a clearer border between what's happening to non-profit private actors and what's going on with commercial players, because we're afraid that rapid commercialisation can build up the ideal sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2181	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2184	The budget to be adopted by the Stortinget today marks a shift and a clear start to the work of the Right Party Government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in building patients' health services, where the needs of the patient and the user are to be more focused than the system. The government went to the elections to create a better and safer Health Norway. We want a good health care, we have a good health care, but it's still a big challenge. It is that many patients wait unnecessarily long for treatment, that there is too much time from suspicion of cancer to diagnosis, and that both patients and employees experience organisational, ICT and bureaucracy as difficult. It is about improving quality and patient safety, and health services need to be better equipped to learn from mistakes. I've traveled a lot in Health-Norway and met many patients. Their stories make an impression. Some know they waited too long for diagnosis or treatment. Others are deeply grateful for the help they have received. It reminds us of the good a solid health care system is. We have to listen to what patients tell us. If we are to succeed in meeting these challenges, we must do three things: firstly, we must give priority to health. That's what this government is doing, but that's not enough. We also need new ideas and better solutions. That's what this government has. Thirdly, we must lift addicts and people with mental health challenges. It starts this government with now. The government also has a significant investment in hospitals. We create space for diversity. It shall reduce waiting times. It's a total of 2.7 billion. kr. There is an increase in patient treatment of 2.6 pst. – the highest budgeted activity growth ever. At the same time, we will increase the proportion of input-driven funding in hospitals from 40 p.m. to 50 pst. This will stimulate hospitals to meet the activity targets in the budget. Ensuring good services to all when they are in need remains a public responsibility. The main tasks of the specialist health service shall be addressed at public hospitals. Hospitals will be able to cope with what they are best for – treating patients. If they are to succeed, they must be freed of time and capacity for this important task. That's what the government is supposed to do. The 2014 mission documents and company records compare smaller detail management and fewer reporting requirements with 2013. We will also demand that regional health businesses use more private actors when this can help reduce waiting times. We need to make rapid use of available capacity that can be realised under existing agreements and legislation. The predictability and long-termity of the private shall be ensured. We're increasing the budget for operations in health regions by 300 million. Compared to the previous government. Forty-five million. kr will be used to increase the purchase of MR studies in private radiological establishments. For those who are ill, this will make a difference. This means that more people affected by disease and injury will be able to treat more quickly, get healthier and live longer and better with their loved ones. Although many women who have waited unreasonably long for breast reconstruction after breast cancer have received help through the strengthening of this field by means of the ear-marked scheme, it is still too many who have waited too long. The government will therefore be clearer than the previous government in ensuring that those who have waited the longest receive help next year. In the mission document, we will not only demand that competence be maintained, but also that capacity be maintained. We will require regular reporting on how many have received help, and to make demands for good information to the women concerned. If necessary, we will consider re-establishing designation in the framework of the revised budget. The government believes that Hospital Norway can be better and smarter. Responsibility and political anchoring of developments in the health sector need to be clarified. That's something that's wanted by both patients and employees. We have started working on a new national health and hospital plan. It will be an important effort to ensure a safe and healthy health system in the future. The aim is for the Storting to provide clearer guidance on how specialist health services should develop and meet changes in the population and in medicine. Health is policy, and we must ensure that development is better democratically anchored. Stortinget is not Oslo, Stortinget is the whole of Norway gathered in Oslo. But I would like to stress that until the plan is adopted and implemented, the government will be based on today's management system. This means that regional health establishments will continue to be responsible for implementing government policies and for monitoring the use of appropriations as they will. Of course, the development of the specialist healthcare system should continue while we are working on the national health and health plan. It cannot or must not be stopped. Emergency and food supply closures should not be accepted until the plan has been treated in Stortinget, unless quality and patient safety justifying closures. I've met patients who have undergone serious surgery, interventions where the outcome is absolutely crucial for what life they'll be able to live later. We know there are complications in the health care system. We know that's improvement potential in many places. But the patients know too little about the treatment they will receive, and the authorities know too little about it. To improve quality systems is, in the context of this, not only a political task, but in my view also a moral duty. It's about how we can give life and quality of life to patients. There's too much variation in the quality of hospitals. We need to focus more on developing quality indicators and medical quality records, and we need more targets on treatment outcomes. Patient-experienced quality must be a natural and integral part of this work. The measures outlined in the Quality and Patient Safety Notice shall be followed up. Systematic work on quality improvement and patient safety is a management responsibility that must be given priority at all levels of healthcare. The introduction of a national testing scheme with quality-based financing of specialist health services will precisely aim to increase the attention of directors and managers on the quality and outcomes of treatment. The government will lift this work, so that we get a more open health system, a more learning health system and a health system that puts the patient's needs at the centre of what you do. This government also prioritizes those who need it the most. Among the weakest groups of patients in the healthcare system are the papers. The needs of the drug field are still high. That's why the government is doing a solid uplift in this area. There will be more than one treatment site. The growth in health regions should be higher for drug use and mental health separately than for somatics. Resources are earmarked for both municipal and hospital drug use. The noise field should notice that we have a new government. This is a work which has been further reinforced by the good budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left here in the Stortinget. I am pleased that these two parties are so clearly helping to strengthen the work of people with mental health challenges, drug addicts and not least their relatives and children – especially the work of non-governmental organisations and local authorities. We're facing a population that's getting older. That's a good thing. Life expectancy is the highest sign of success in creating a welfare society. Older people are important contributors to society. Many work longer, are active in non-governmental organisations and set up a family day to rise. But with increasing age, there are also many people in need of help, care and care. It requires political preparation. Many older ones feel insecure about old age. We must help to reduce that uncertainty. The Government wants the State to take greater responsibility for ensuring that municipalities are given the opportunity to expand their competence, quality and capacity in the care service. It is a major challenge to expand capacity for lucky day care facilities, so that we do not continue to be in deficit when the strong increase in demand comes after 2020. It takes time to plan and build care areas. That's why we're strengthening the grant scheme, and we're proposing to raise to 50 pst. of the construction costs while increasing the framework. In addition, the government proposes to increase the commitment framework corresponding to a further 500 days of care. In total, the new framework provides a basis for 2,500 new and rebuilt sites. This is a good budget which, not least, the Committee's work has contributed to improving, including in the field of drugs and mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2250	The Storting has decided that the Rechtsgenetics Center in Tromsø, RGS, is to conduct education and research in the field of forensics and to be able to conduct DNA and trace analyses as a complement to the Forensic Institute in Oslo. The Stoltenberg government doubled the allocation to the RGS in 2013 and was able to find out different models for the organisation of legal genetic work. In a short time, the RGS will be ready to start analysing work in Tromsø. The Solberg government, in its government platform, advocates more analytical environments for DNA, but is obviously most enthusiastic about private solutions, such as: GENA in Stavanger. However, I assume that the Council of State knows that privatisation means outsourcing throughout the EEA territory, and that there is no guarantee that Norwegian operators will receive the award. Can the Council of State say what he will give priority to: the public, university-based Legal Genetics Centre in Tromsø, or privatisation and outsourcing with the risk that Norwegian DNA analyses will end up in Barcelona or London?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2259	Firstly, this Council of State will give priority to what is the purpose of the analyses, namely that the police get quick and qualitative answers in order to solve very serious crimes. We have very clear signals from the police that they are still experiencing that this takes too long, and that we have too little capacity. That is why I have planned, together with the Minister of Justice, to follow up the government's platform in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2264	In the cooperation agreement and in the government platform, it is said that the 200 places entered next year for drug treatment and psychiatry will go to non-profit institutions. That is Christian People's Party very pleased. But we wonder how the minister thinks about putting up this process in order to get to these places quickly. I have visited some non-profit organisations that are quite clear; if they receive a signal from either the regional health companies or the minister, they are able to build up the services quickly. I just wonder how the minister thinks about getting that process in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2271	These 200 places shall be added to existing places. Secondly, we have said that for the very representative here – that these places should be able to be used quickly – we want a rapid use of the capacity already agreed and the possibility to expand. So some of the ideals that already have a deal and have a free capacity will then have the opportunity to use this quickly. Of course, the places that go beyond that need to be bought for, within the regulatory framework. Then there's a budget of 255 million. kr for purchases in the fields of alcohol, mental health and rehabilitation. It's in addition to these 200 places, and you can use both private and private ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2278	I notice that the Minister of Health has a 10 minute post without mentioning anything about public health and prevention. Norway has, before Höie was Minister of Health, joined with other countries to the goal of the Verda Health Assembly to reduce the early death of non-infectious diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. I also noticed that one in the budget reverses a number of objectives that were in a strategy the previous Minister of Health presented earlier in the fall with measures to achieve this goal; one at least reverses two specific measures. This applies to the goal of 60 minutes of physical activity in the school and expanding the scheme of fruit and green to the whole base ball. My question is: is it then that the new government is reverting to the long-term goal of reducing non-infectious diseases by 25 pst., since the measures are now being reversed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2285	This government is behind a strategy to reduce the non-infectious diseases and also underpins our work. But we have a perception that some of the instruments that the previous government has provided in this area are instruments that we question the effect of, but not least that many of them lead to more bureaucracy and are very cumbersome schemes to deal with. It is that this government will always look at the relationship between the effect of an instrument and what it has to lead to from negative activities. It is also the case that the question of public health is not just a public responsibility. It's also a responsibility for each of us, for the family, because this is not something public can do alone. On the contrary, here we do not least need good drag help from and to play along with the volunteer organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2292	Privacy is a timely question. Some of what we've noticed from the revelations to Edward Snowden is the amount of data collected. The red-green government had out a proposal for a new health register, and I have some questions related to it. On the one hand, to create new registers out of the Storting, does the Council of State see it? What do you want to do with this entire data set? And will the Minister of Health see this in a slightly larger perspective and take a little more time, or will he take the proposals for new health record law and new patient journal law to Stortinget quite quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2297	I cannot say anything today about when this case is being promoted for Stortinget. It's been out at the hearing. We are now working on going through the hearings that have come, and then this is a matter to come to Stortinget. It is important that we now, when discussing privacy, also be able to lift the privacy bill away from what it has traditionally been in a paper-based society, and from how privacy can be safeguarded in a modern society using new ICT. I see at least that we have great, new opportunities to secure privacy in a completely different way than the time that anyone who had the key could go down and sit down and read in the patient records, carry them around, lose them and mess them away. Today, we can use ICT, which is not least an important tool for each of us to have an overview of who has access to our information.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2305	Unfortunately, many pain patients feel that they are not getting a good enough offer. There is something the previous government tried to draw attention to repeatedly, among other things. through guides in several mission documents to strengthen the provision of chronic pain patients. I have mentioned this with the Minister of Health before, and he writes in reply to me that the Directorate of Health is now preparing a supervisor. But the way I read the answer – and that's why I'm taking it up in the budget debate – it seems like he's going to settle down with that supervisor a little bit about it. It's very good to say about counsellors from the directorate, but my experience is that it often needs something more. So I wonder if the government council has something more than the supervisor that he wants to do to make patients with chronic pain better offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2312	As the representative is inside, you are now working with a supervisor, and I think that's something you should not just look at as a non-active agent. On the contrary, what I have mentioned, and will address, is that in health care we need to be much more effective at using guides and not least the national guidelines in some areas. Because we see time and again that we get reports that show that there is too much inequality in the offer given between hospitals, and very often the inequality is due to the fact that no one has used the national guides or the treatment guidelines. It's not acceptable. Before you get a culture that this is actually something a user like a work tool, I'm afraid we won't be able to do anything about it. There is also a need to look at the competence and offer in the various places we have chosen to offer a special offer to these patients, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2319	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2322	The budget we are going to adopt here today is the majority of what we spend on health and care in this country. And whether we're in the opposition or position, there's reason to commend the country's health care, both for good professional quality and for the services to be available to everyone – wherever we live, or what we had to have in the bank account. Just these values I think it's easy to take for granted. I guess we all think that what we've won so far, that's what we've won for the future. I don't think we should settle down on that. There is an important debate in many forums about the future conditions of the welfare state – what kind of growth, or what kind of constraints we recognize the contours of. There are different views and – above all – different interests that are expressed here, and we politicians must go into that debate with force. The Stoltenberg government chose to spend the large public money on health and care and on important interventions such as the Interaction Reform, better ICT, strengthening patient safety and raising the level of competences in the care of the elderly. That doesn't mean everything's brilliant. We have major challenges in many fields in the health and care sector in the coming years. The bourgeois government parties voted on two major health amendment proposals: what is called ‘free treatment choice’ and the closure of regional health enterprises. But both of these two marked promises are now parked by the government sailing and pushed out into the blue – literally – and I shall immediately hurry and say that I sincerely hope that they stay out there and never realized. However, the Minister of Health ordered both parts to be carried out; only a national hospital plan should be put in place. Thus, the government creates a doubt about future healthcare, an uncertainty that I often encounter in my part of the country, both from those who have their profession in the health sector, and from patients who have been told for a long time that only the blues came to power, anyone who had a referral would be able to shop health services in a free hospital market near you – on public account. So the government has a lot to do with a national hospital plan, which is a plan that – as far as I can see – should only be for the public hospitals. For these hospitals, we already have ‘free hospital choice’ today — or a kind of free treatment option — which also includes actors who have an agreement with the public, as well as public hospitals. However, the government's ambition for a so-called free treatment choice is primarily to be realized by private – mostly commercial – hospitals. These hospitals shall not be subject to any form of political governance. If a private hospital driver is qualified, drivers may decide where to establish themselves, what to offer treatment, and to whom, and then the bill shall be automatically sent to the public. This is a recipe that opens up huge pressure on the specialist health service, it is a recipe for centralising professional and financial resources, and it is a recipe for losing political direction with priorities and distributions within the specialist health service. Then I have to say that I was very concerned about the Council's response to the Court of Justice Centre in Tromsø. It's not like the center just has to run DNA analyses. They need a wide range of professional portfolios in order to be the environment they are supposed to be, namely that they should be able to train, research and also perform DNA analyses. So I hope that the Council of State, when he's in North Norway tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, will talk to those people about exactly this. I thought it was quite discouraging, I must say. A recurring mantra in this picture is the government’s statement that we must use ‘all available capacity’. This is in stark contrast to the reports from several hospitals that there is a shortage of health professionals. The same is true of most projections for the coming years for health professionals. Thus, there is no free resource of health workers and professionals that can be excavated and used only in private enterprises – they must be taken from public hospitals. Therefore, we need to focus more on expanding the capacity of public hospitals. We need to provide prevention, early intervention and good health care in the municipalities where people live, as the red-green government provided through, for example. The cooperation reform, and then we will cooperate with private and ideals, where it is at the heart of it. Such a policy will, of course, be a good household with professional and financial resources. Early work is also the best for the individual, who can get help before entering a hospital. It has been very difficult to get a thorough and analytical debate in the Storting on the involvement of commercial actors in the large welfare systems. An important question related to this is: what happens when traditional markets are confused, as we have seen in Europe in recent years, and the well-being areas with one appear to be lucrative investment objects? Right-wing former Minister of Health and Social Affairs Leif Arne Heløe said it in his own way in an article in Minerva: creating the market out of a hundred percent publicly funded welfare services is simply out of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2341	The right went to the choice of new opportunities and better solutions to societal challenges. The voters gave the bourgeois confidence, and the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, started to change the course. The opposition claims that the government is in breach of the law. At the same time, the red-greens criticise the change in course they are now seeing in the budget of the new government. It's not entirely related. The red-greens criticise the solutions proposed by the new government to bring down health cows and to get more patients to treatment. For the government, it is most important to have patients in the centre and increase the capacity of the healthcare system. The public is the carrier of health services and specialist health services. This applies to both mental and somatic disorders. Health undertakings shall be responsible for care and ensure an equivalent offer to the population. Health enterprises have a special responsibility for driving research, development and innovation to improve the quality of treatment and develop new treatment methodologies. It is also important that there are cooperation agreements between municipalities and enterprises on research and innovation. Such cooperation will enhance the competence of the community health service and contribute to the implementation of new research in hospital homes and in home care. In the government platform, it is stated that it will promote a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget. We're looking forward to it. Such a plan will create transparency and predictability in the health sector and shall define different types of hospitals and structures in the specialist health service. Until the plan has been dealt with, I am pleased that emergency and food services are not to be reduced that are not justified by patient safety and quality. It is important that regional health establishments continue to have a steering and coordination role until the adoption of the national health and health plan. It is good that the government is committed to strengthening patients’ and users’ rights, and we introduce free treatment choices first as a probationary system in mental health and drug abuse. This should be evaluated. Ideal and private actors make valuable contributions to health care and help reduce queues. For example, health south-east today, under the red-green management, has an agreement on both private non-profit hospitals, private commercial institutions – such as X-ray institutes, laboratories and medical specialists. I notice that the representative Micaelsen is not concerned about the increased number of insurances that allow people to buy themselves out of line. This government is concerned with improving the efficiency of the public sector and increasing the use of private and non-profit institutions, just to treat more and reduce queues. For this reason, it has also been said that treatment capacity should be increased and proposed to increase input-driven funding from 40 to 50 pst. The government has chosen to give priority to treatment for people with mental health problems and drug addiction, and it is proposed to reintroduce the rule that drug treatment and mental health protection should have an annual growth higher than that of somatic care. The government has also proposed to use 300 million in its draft government budget. to increase the activity of private actors in order to reduce waiting times. 255 million. kr is to be used for increased purchases from private individuals in the field of drugs, mental health protection and rehabilitation. There are an incredible number of individual sheds behind sick messages and disability. Psychiatric health problems also cost society about 70 billion. kr per year, and mental disorders account for 40 pst. of sick leave and the cost of disability benefits. It is therefore important to prioritise the area of mental health in terms of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. Particular attention shall be paid to ensuring predictability and long-termity of private and NPISHs through public acquisitions. This will not be at the expense of the public specialist health service, but rather complement and complement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2362	A country can well be estimated how it takes care of its elderly. We like to talk about the people who built the country. It's a group of people who deserve our attention as they enter the harvest of life. Therefore, care for the elderly has always been important for the Advance Party, and it is for the new government. Our entry into the government has not changed this. We've been talking about dignity in the care of the elderly, and we're going to do that. Therefore, I am pleased to say that the new government already in this budget strengthens the subsidy schemes for municipalities and benefits municipalities in press areas to ensure better care for the elderly. It seems right to look at the possibilities of providing care for the elderly – i.e. the needs of users and not the finances of individual municipalities. This is why the new government is soon launching a pilot project of state-funded care for the elderly in a part of the country's municipalities. Orders must be free of choice and shorter waiting time. The testing scheme shall include a limited number of municipalities, duration over time and evaluation. By exploiting the capacity of private and non-profit operators, waiting lists could be significantly reduced. The new government will actively ensure that waiting lists are kept, so that we can see how many older people are actually waiting for a place to stay in. Until now, there have been more exceptions than the rule in those cases where waiting lists have been maintained. When we see the need and legal right to care, all proper treatment is ensured in a timely manner, regardless of the size of the wallet to which it relates. The new government will grant the elderly a legal right to hospitalisation as soon as the medical situation so warrants. At the same time, we will offer a much better offer to those who want to stay at home as far as possible. Therefore, home-based care is important, and the new government will introduce a State operating grant scheme to prevent bias between nursing homes and nursing homes, ensuring the faster deployment of several health homes. In the Government Declaration, the Right Party and the Progressive Party state that security of assistance and care is a pillar of our welfare society. Ensuring good health and care services to all when the need arises is a public responsibility. Public health is, in a way, an insurance company of all, and must therefore provide assistance if necessary. The care of the elderly and caregivers needs to be further developed in order to provide all those who need it with a range of quality and activity. The government will use all the good forces to ensure patients’ healthcare of high quality, greater freedom of choice and greater diversity in the supply. The Government will assume a greater financial responsibility to ensure that municipalities build up sufficient capacity and quality in the care of the elderly. Relatives who take care of their neighbors make a decisive effort and deserve to be met with a public utility that works with them and relieves them. The Government will maintain rights-based personal assistance to improve the daily lives of people who need it and its relatives. The new government will introduce quality indicators, assess the statutory right to good care and care for the introduction of the period, and the government will establish a standard or a guidance for staffing and quality in the care sector. We want to oblige municipalities to conduct outreach home visits in order to adapt assistance measures to the individual. We want to stimulate municipalities to innovation in care through their own experimental legislation that gives freedom and economic incentives to try out new forms of organisation and actions. We want to strengthen the commitment to the offer of people with dementia. And already in this budget are financial incentives for municipalities to ensure that everyone is allowed to live in a single room and not to get a worse offer through long-term residence in double room against his will. A total of 2,500 new places can be realised with the budget of this government. This government will be good for Norwegian elderly care. This government has hearts and hearts for those who built the country. This government's goal is to make it shine with care for the elderly, even though we also give tax relief to people the most. It's an ambitious goal, but it doesn't fit the fact that you don't take on serious people of advanced age. That's what this government will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2400	At the home of Marianne and Johnny Smedholen, it was Saturday, two weeks ago, decorated and prepared for a birthday party. The candy bowls stood ready, and two excited comrades in eight years waited eagerly for the guests to come. But the candy bowls remained full, and there never came any birthday guests. Every day, children and young people experience being subjected to bullying — someone so rude that we prefer to close our ears and see another way, because this does not belong to branded clothing, cupcakes and Birkebeinerritt. Because it can't be my child that bullies or gets bullied. Although several have apologized to the two eight-year-old boys, and a group of Norway doubts publicly that some may be so bad, this case shows how simple everyday bullying can occur and not least be taken into account. The community, i.e. me and you as parents, must take seriously every time someone has to celebrate a birthday alone or experience finding negative comments about themselves online. We need zero tolerance against bullying in environments where children and young people are located. Why? Well, because these small and big events are giving ground to the uncertainty and development of mental problems. We know that mental problems and suffering are the most common health problem among children and young people today. Taking responsibility for an inclusive childhood will be one of the most important prevention measures we can take in improving the mental health of the population. Because about half of the Norwegian population experience some form of mental ill health and problems during life, usually with roots back in childhood. For some people, it's about being able to walk out the door – for others, it's about staying alive. The aim of the Workers' Party is to enable people with mental health problems to live a decent and as normal life as possible. It requires a health service that is both available and as coherent as possible. That is why we followed up in the government the recommendations of the WHO and the trade unions on a switch from institutional mental health protection to a more outpatient, outreach and active offer. About 150 outpatient teams are established, the number of consultations has increased and, perhaps most importantly, the lowthreshold offer has been expanded. We've given $180 million more to the country's health center and school health service. We have recruited 130 psychologists in the municipalities and established the Rapid Mental Health Assistance pilot project. These are good and proper measures, which, by simple means, can turn a mental health disorder into good health. There is therefore a good basis for the new government, but much remains. I am concerned about the real will that the Right Party and the Advance Party have to give priority to children who are being bullied and adults with severe mental disorders, when they now choose to increase the somatic stimulating ISF share to hospitals from 40 pst. to 50 pst. This is not to prioritize the psychiatric patients. In fact, the ISF share stimulates the opposite. It makes somatic treatments and operations more profitable than helping people with mental disorders. The way from words to action in this case seems to be very demanding and sometimes misguided by the new government. Leonardo da Vinci said: ‘The iron rusts when not used, standing water loses its clarity and freezes in cold. Similarly, passivity undermines the strength of the mind.’ We must not become so passive in our work on mental health that our power of action rusts up. Children who get bullied, youths who fall outside, and adults who want to take their own lives, deserve politicians who are able to follow up what they have actually promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2431	I have to admit that it has been politically painful to stand on the sideline of the red-green majority government in the Storting and record a gradual down-priority in important health areas such as drugs and mental health. This was raised and strengthened by former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen of the Bondevik II government. I am pleased that the government in the budget for 2014 gives more to those who really need it the most, in line with what we promised in the election campaign. The budget priorities show a new government, which not only sees but also listens to those who are struggling with addiction and mental health; two patient groups that have been at the bottom of the health policy table for far too many years. The provision of these will now be strengthened in its entirety, from a low-level prevention threshold to a stronger and better back-up. There is a need to step up early efforts in the municipalities with specialised multidisciplinary competence in school health services and in the health centre for young people. At the end of treatment in the specialist health service, a good interdisciplinary back-up protection and a good follow-up in the municipalities – so-called individual plans. The government has re-introduced several important measures that the red-greens removed during a period when we knew that the fights in the municipalities were vulnerable. In addition to the reintroduction of the golden rule that drug and mental health alone should have a stronger growth than somatic in health regions, the government has earmarked 343 million. DKK for rural development measures in municipalities. Perhaps the most important of all is the reversal of the red-green proposals to wind up the ‘Psychiatric health in school’ scheme. This was a very unfortunate cut. An example of how important this kind of work is, we saw in the VG this weekend. There was one thing that affected many, and that was frequently shared in social media. Two little boys of eight years were looking forward to a birthday party, so to see that no one from class came. This case has given us an image of what can happen to bullying among children and young people, just at school. The ‘Psychiatric health in school’ scheme is aimed at preventing this type of child freezing in the school environment. During the consultations in the Committee, adults for children could point out that more than 600 primary schools are in the process of the ‘Psychiatric Health in School’ programme, that this is done in close cooperation with the school health service, and that the demand for the programmes is increasing. It is also important to point out that the ‘Psychiatric health in school’ scheme focuses on mental health, the psychosocial environment and membership also in secondary school, and that it has an explicit objective of strengthening implementation and preventing non-retirement. Overall, the government has increased mental health work by 43.8 million. kr in addition to the red-green proposal. This shows that today's government wants to go from the red-green parties to real strengthening in the field of mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2450	One of our most important tasks as elected representatives is to facilitate as much as possible the realization of their lives. Health is of great importance to the quality of life of each of us, and health is one of the factors that most affect social differences. That's why I'm proud that the red-greens, when they put their hands on power, were able to put public health on the agenda, and not least that they were able to tackle the comprehensive reform of turning health resources against the big public diseases – such as intoxication, mental health, obesity and chronic illness – and that more of the treatment would take place in people's familiar environments, where they have their networks. Good hospitals are important. We aim to be even better at hospital treatment, but it is very important to strengthen the provision of health services in municipalities. That's where people live, work and have a lot of their everyday life. Interaction reform is therefore one of our most important reforms. The aim is to reduce disease and ill health, and to adapt the situation of life – preferably at home – to those in need of help and care, and thus to experience an increase in the quality of life. In this reform, as with other major changes in society, we face strong counterpowers, strong special interests, and not least people's belief that hospitalization is the safest place to recover or get the right treatment. Nor will hospitals simply give up resources. It is therefore our responsibility, as elected representatives, to develop a knowledge-based health policy, where we are able to organise health resources so that it is the health challenges of the population that are at the centre. There are few areas of society where there is a need for as strong political governance as health. The Labour Party is convinced that the objective of the Cooperation Reform is the right one. Major reforms will always require adjustments and to address new challenges. If we are to succeed in distorting resources, there is also a need for strong instruments. Targeted financial incentives, where municipalities see that they serve directly to create local offers, have proved to be effective. We have received clear feedback, including from right-wing municipalities, that they are very critical of the new government's proposal to remove the municipal co-financing. The government is also completely silent about what they want to put in place. We have little faith in the answers of the Progress Party – to leave everything to the state. The working party believes that people are so different, and health is so complex and complex that health and care services are best addressed locally. We will strongly warn against long - term uncertainty in the municipalities. Municipalities need predictability in order to provide good health to their citizens. Health is one of the main responsibilities of the municipalities. When we go through the setting, and there are several people who have done and commented, it is striking how little the new government has changed compared to the proposal that the red-greens made in October. We find that they have added some additions as a result of increased oil money usage, but otherwise the big issues from the election campaign are waiting. This concerns the free choice of treatment, the removal of regional health businesses and the proposal to reverse the co-financing of municipalities in the Cooperation Reform. Perhaps the new government has gone from the ‘better solutions’ option to becoming an investigative government. If we are to succeed in the cooperation reform, we must also be able to distort the research funds against the responsibility of the municipalities. Older people are a large group, and it is therefore gratifying to record the establishment of new community medical environments that address the challenges of older people, such as age psychiatry, pain, dementia, drug treatment, palliative care and methodological development. Both research and competence building in these fields needs to be strengthened through the Health Care research and innovation strategy21. "Everything is connected with everything," said a wise lady. It does it to the greatest extent in health. Prime Minister Erna Solberg's mantra during the government negotiations was that nothing is clear until everything is clear. We understand that the government needs time, but when they were so clear during the election campaign, and when it means so much to the municipalities to clarify the framework conditions ahead, we miss that they give clearer signals, especially when it comes to the expectations that drugs and mental health should also be part of the Cooperation Reform. The municipality of Norway needs greater predictability in order to provide its citizens with a good health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2469	Our country is a good place to live, but everything is not as rosy. The legacy of Stoltenberg is, in addition to a lack of investment in the knowledge society, increased health cows and a more classed health care system. Since 2005, the number of Norwegians with private health insurance has increased from 68 000 to more than 360 000. The people's confidence in getting the necessary health care when you need it has obviously sunk. The right is for a new course in health policy. We want to use our resources to help those who need it the most. For example, we returned to the budget for tax relief for those with large sickness costs. The screening system, which was so important for the red-greens to be removed, benefited them precisely with the highest health costs. The red-greens are masters in using big words, and I wonder how they had mentioned our government if it was the one who had removed this support that goes to those who have the greatest cost of sickness. I remember a party leader from SV who mentioned increased excess excess weights as a tax on disease – she about it. This is at least an attempt to increase the tax on disease from the red-greens that we have cancelled. Instead of general arrangements that make all of them arbitrarily, we want schemes that really help those who need it. The right-hand side shows the ability to prioritize. We have been trusted by our voters, and it should not shock anyone that we show trust by implementing our policies. An example of our more modern policy, which also shows our ability to prioritise, is in dentistry. Children and young people are already offered treatment in public dental services. The same applies to residents in the care and care services provided by the lucky day. The government is adding and redispating the dental budget so that the funds better hit them with high treatment needs at high costs. The introduction of the dental examination grant for persons over 75 years of age has not solved any of the societal challenges in the field of dentistry. A study from the UiO shows that approx. 90 pst. Among these are regular dental visits at least every two years, and most in this group have low dental expenses. It warned the increase in the grant to patients with dry mouth will reach those patients who need it the most. Many of these are older, because they are often affected by dry mouth. The Stoltenberg government proposed to support those who needed implants in the pedestal. The right-hand Party government assumes that you need teeth both up and down to chew. That is why we are extending the aid scheme to both the upper and lower jaws. At the same time, we increase the amount of support so that it is possible to get the whole job done. It has little value with free dental check if you can't afford to fix the defects you had to discover. The government corrects this and makes sure that those who need it the most get help for new teeth both up and down. Between 1000 and 2000 people die each year from adverse reactions and adverse drug use in Norway. It is reassuring that an overall increase is behind the pharmaceutical part of the budget. At the same time, it is interesting that there is an area that arouses little debate. The only dividing line is how small the margins of the pharmacies should be. There is an important enough question, but in the general debate the pharmaceutical policy takes little place. All the time we know that as many as half of the chroniclers take their drugs wrong, and it's well documented that 10 pst. of all hospitalisations in medical departments due to the misuse of medicinal products, the discussion on how to use medicinal products should be at least as central as the discussion on how much they cost. Chronic disease is now sailing up to become the leading cause of death in the world. In the Western world, it is estimated that 20 pst. there are several chronic conditions in the population and the number is increasing. How we deal with this growing amount of chroniclers, and how we prevent growth from escalating, will be crucial for how our health care system will cope with increasing life expectancy and population growth. Sicker patients are increasingly in need of care. Municipalities receive more and more patients from hospitals. It is important to ensure that the municipal health service is organised — and the staff are adequately qualified — so that the municipalities are able to meet it. It is therefore gratifying that quality of service is a priority of the government and that the development of the community health service is a priority. To solve the challenges of the future and prevent challenges from becoming greater than necessary, we need to be critical of how we use our resources and how our health services are organised at all times. Money is important enough, but we won't be able to find a single example of a patient being cured by dollars and cents alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2486	Let there be no doubt that the Norwegian health service is very good. The question is how health can become even better, and let it be said right away: the apparent new ideas of the right-hand side and better solutions in this and other important welfare areas are old and unfair solutions, and they are not for the benefit of most people, but for those who have the most. For us in the Workers' Party, there is no doubt that health is an important part of our welfare society, and an important part of the Norwegian model. The basis for that idea is the idea of equal opportunities for all, which is not least about equivalency. In order to realise it, it is absolutely necessary to have a strong public health system. There shall be room for private entry and purchase of private healthcare, but it shall be done in controlled forms. A health service where market forces are allowed to operate freely does not become a health service for everyone. It is likely to be a health service for those who are able to pay part of the treatment themselves, as relatively high proportions will force themselves. There may also be a health service where those who are most profitable to treat are treated quickly, while those who suffer from more complex, complex diseases will be offered less. Experience from other countries shows us very clearly that privatisation, commercialisation and market forces must be ensured within the welfare system. If one doesn't, we get a society for those who have the most, and not for people the most. Therefore, the solutions of the working party are primarily to strengthen public health and to increase resources and treatment capacity. We still want to use private actors, but not unlimited. There is reason to fear the offer that the public health service can make if an uncritically opens the purse to commercial, private operators. In particular, there may be grounds for warning that there are restrictions on professionals and that it would be very negative if the public health service lost many of them to the commercial health service. In addition, there is reason to fear the economy, especially in public hospitals, if an uncritically finances private actors at the expense of the public. Small and medium-sized hospitals will be particularly vulnerable. As a representative of East-Agder, I can use my own county as an example, where the hospital in Arendal is the only one in the county, and provides the people with a good and important offer. I fear the consequences of government policy on the hospital in Arendal and other small and medium-sized hospitals. We also do not want to increase the current ISF limit. We believe that this will largely affect patients who are not profitable. The need to raise prevention through active public health work is also quite evident. Our society cannot in the future rely more and more on repair. Speaking of the last, it almost limits – excuse me for saying – to the pathetic when the Right-Fremskrit party government gives billions in tax cuts to those who have the most, while removing free school fruit in school, which is an important public health measure. There is reason to be sincerely concerned when you see how the government without modesty spends money on private, commercial players, while you have to stay in public health. Nor does a government become less worried about increasing the ISF share. At the same time, one claims to increase the growth in the appropriations for drugs and psychiatry more than the allocations for somatic products. This is not related. There is also reason to wonder why a chooser is so focused on the treatment population, and not on the patients, when government earmarks funds for private drug treatment services. Is this putting the patient's needs at the centre, or is it the treatment needs that are most important? There is reason to fear that the policy of the Right Party government will be the beginning of a dismantling of the welfare society we know. A health service where market forces are released, and where profit becomes the most important, will change the healthcare system and Norway in a way that I think the few people want, but quite in line with what Minister of Finance Jensen said earlier, that the Norwegian model was nothing to collect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2504	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2507	I'll start by saying that I think a national hospital plan might be a good idea. What's a little kinky about it is opening up a private commercial hospital sector next door, i.e. hospitals that are going to go under the radar of political governance. How large it will be, and where those hospitals will be, no one knows, because there must be freedom of establishment. I think that this health plan from time to time will roll in Stortinget. But I don't understand the Council of State when he says that the Storting is a bunch of local politicians who are rushing together to run local politics in the National Assembly. Then I have to say that we have a very different view of what the Storting is. We are elected to trust from our regions. Many times we are dealing with local and regional issues in Stortinget, which in fact also have national relevance, such as: the question I asked to the Council of State today – but we should, first and foremost, govern the health services at an overall political level. I cannot imagine that the healthcare system should only have individual health companies, which will be managed in detail from Stortinget. Then I hope that I no longer sit in the National Assembly. The chairman of the Committee said that there were no problems and uncertainties out there. Yes, it is. In my region it is, among others. in the case of free choice of treatment. The director of the University Hospital warned in the newspaper Nordlys – on a whole page – against free treatment choices. He said -- probably as true as it is -- that this is going to shut down resources from the north to the south. Then it's the people who work in health businesses. I think there's a lot in health companies we can clean up. But there are many – not least in the Health West, Health North and Health Mid-Norway – who have done a very good job of housekeeping with professional resources, have been given cooperation, have received good patient care. And I think it must be a little strange for those who are now told by the Minister of Health that they have so much confidence, but as by opposition politician Bent Höie was called faceless bureaucrats. It must be a little creepy. I have some time to say a little about private insurance. I don't think 'double moral' is a parliamentary expression, so I'm not going to use it, but I get very surprised when I hear Right talking about private insurance. In 2003, the civil government introduced tax provisions for private insurance. It was proposed again in 2010, after the red-green government had removed this scheme. This was done despite seeing what happened in Denmark, where tax laws for the purchase of insurance under the bourgeois government have led to almost 40 pst. such insurance is provided by employees. Researchers have shown that tax breaks lead to more purchases of private health insurance, which is the most important incentive for us to get such insurance. Norway is the lowest in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2520	‘Privatisation’ has become a mantra for the blue-blue’ said Knutsen. Similarly, I would like to say that ‘public’ may have become a mantra for the other side of the policy. I think we need to be careful of light mantras. I can say that, which is from the Christian People's Party. Remember, we've been using private for many years. An example of that is the Feiring Clinic. I myself have been sitting as the head of the heart examination. The celebration clinic was a substitute, which enabled us to help each other when the queues were long. The previous Minister of Health said that one should extend the opening hours and thus increase the capacity of public hospitals. It is possible – I think it is possible – but we have to accept the jam that it will also require. It will require more anaesthetic staff, several intensive nurses to take care of after the operation, more area of surveillance rooms because it has been operated earlier in the day, interlaboratory and more x-ray. We must not take easy ways when we promise something in terms of opinion. The same thing I would like to say about x-ray machines. They can walk around 24 hours a day, but we have some work contracts that mean that, if these machines are to go around the clock, we have to hire more people. That's why the Christian People's Party wants to say: we can get more capacity in the public sector, but then we have to educate more people. And we need to expand our monitoring capabilities. While we wait for this, there are staff and capacity out there that can be used. Then it must not be what governs us, whether it becomes private or public, but according to the patient's needs. It's health care that governs us. This must lead to the use of the private sector from the health point of view of patients and where they need to be kept in line as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2531	I was very concerned for a while – on behalf of the representative Freddy de Ruiter. He has been terribly concerned today – there was almost no way how concerned the representative de Ruiter could be today. At first, he was concerned about the consequences if the new government got through to its policy. Then he became even more concerned that you would not deliver what you had said you would deliver. I think that the representative de Ruiter can leave here a little less worried when we close the debate today, because you can't disagree so much when you've managed for the first time in history to create a position completely without any alternative proposals. It is absolutely completely without alternative proposals, and then you can't be so terriblely disagreeing with what the sitting government has proposed together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have been involved in putting their mark on the budget that we are dealing with. It's important that we be able to see the whole health system together. And it's just this that is the interaction between the public and the private part of the health system: the health system is for the sake of the inhabitants, and not the opposite. Then we have to use the capacity where the capacity is, so that as much as possible is processed. The government that passed on 14 October left a legacy of miles of waiting lists within the health care system. We have barely seen so many people standing in line for health care, despite the fact that you have had more money to travel with than ever. Then there's reason to question the system. Should we look at the system? Should we consider how we can make better use of the capacity to help more people? This government prioritises the voluntary sector. If we hadn't had private and, not least, non-profit organisations in this country, we would never have been able to offer the services that we are actually offering today. This is the very support of the Norwegian welfare system. The bearbar is not our big and heavy economic models. No, the support of the Norwegian welfare community is people, the inhabitants of this country, the voluntary sector. It is in this way that we can manage to go further, along with a well-functioning public health system, which also has to look at its own organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2549	I drew myself to the debate after Freddy de Ruiter's posts in particular, but I have heard a tendency here that the red-greens will draw up a conflict between the private and public health services. I think it's worth noting that in local politics I see an inevitable Workers' Party, which is not willing to go into the discussion about organizing the services around the patients, for the sake of those who work there. I've repeatedly referred to the example of my demented father, who in a month had 60 caretakes in. It's a large number, and it's just because it's not willing to look at organization. In the neighborhood, there is a happy day's nursing home that gets patients to go on a tour, which then does not meet so many. 60 in one month is two different – two new – per day. I challenge the Workers' Party to tackle this. Nor am I particularly impressed by the full-time/part-time debate on how the Workers' Party tackles locally. The celebration clinic is being brought forward here. That's very interesting, because it's a big private actor for which the Workers' Party is very much in favour. It is also important in this context to point out that we need a national health and hospital plan, because the new feiring clinic is actually a very large hospital, and if we get more of that into the health sector, it will actually have to draw a lot of capacity out of the public sector. That's why I think that's a good reason why the Workers' Party is reflecting on how many such private actors a unconscious party says yes. On the other hand, I challenge the Workers' Party to discuss free hospital choice as a model to balance just the public and the private, and use free hospital choice as an acquisition agent to exploit public capacity. Until we get better organized, we need to use private actors to some extent. This is an important debate we have to take, and it won't be a better debate if we just go to the trenches.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2562	I noted in a reply that the government and the cooperation parties are now reiterating on the proposal to come up with an action plan on municipal medicine. It is then obvious that they are happy with what the red-green government did when we announced that there should be a separate regulation, that one should enter an own medical watch number, and that one has a warning requirement for a rear guard, etc. But I had thought that when they were as late as June, this suggested anyway, even though this other one was known, they would have done something in the budget for next year. It's an extremely important thing, and if they have new, better solutions and new ideas, we'll look at them when it comes to medics. In the 2013 budget, the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party make 17 proposals. I can't see any of them again today. I think it must be quite embarrassing that it is so clear that a proposal that is being proposed does not take responsibility for it. I can mention that last year they wanted to have a supplementary system for clinical nutrition skills in the municipalities; they wanted an independent OUS examination commission; they wanted the municipalities to run statistics on the waiting lists in the hospital; they wanted a drug review for people over 75 years; they wanted master training before nurses; they wanted a pilot project for the drug and psychiatry to introduce the funding arrangements for the interaction reform – as the council of state said in written reply to me that he had to figure out – they wanted a new funding scheme for psychologists in the municipalities, and they wanted funding for new, innovative bodies, among other things. I don't say any more, but at least there's someone and everyone who has something to follow up on what they've said before. Finally, something about a national health and hospital plan. The centre party is in favour, but I react to the fact that the platform and the budget agreements state that closure of businesses can only take place once the national health and health plan has been drawn up, adopted and operated. This means that when you are going to roll this national health and health plan, you are going to create regional health care providers again. It's not completely related.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2571	First, what has to be an explanation of vote, I think. As many have experienced during the debate, there has been a demanding and partly complicated budget harvest. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were part of the parliamentary basis on which Stoltenberg II's draft budget came in October. We had been working on that for a long time, and we had hoped that it would also get a majority, but that's not how the voters would have it. In the vote, we have described the main actions and individual proposals in detail – both verbally and in the form of proposals – to describe that it is precisely the proposal that was our starting point. When we discussed it in the Financial Committee and in the financial position, we did not get our proposal for either this framework area or other, majority, it fell. We made it clear how we would also distribute the extra money that did not come from the oil fund, for example. by supporting the proposal for increased treatment capacity on drugs, psychiatry, MRs, etc. but with some other reservations. When we moved on to the Health and Care Committee, we discovered that, partly for technical reasons – some of our posts were brought to other committees – but also for political reasons, a framework that was completely impossible for us to deal with. Therefore, it was not possible to recreate the original proposal submitted by the Stoltenberg government in the fall, throughout the setting. That's why I think the easiest way to do this is to recommend our people to vote against when we get to voting, to make it visible that there are different majority in the hall. It's also been tradition before. That would be a little strange, I think, if it were to be the case that, one and a half months after a comprehensive budget for one of Norway's largest sectors in the public sector, a large number of verbal proposals were to be put forward. The representative Kjersti Toppe has described in an excellent way that these proposals have not been taken seriously by those who now form the government's parliamentary basis. Finally, this discussion about private versus public. Then I would just like to notify you and tell you quite clearly what the Workers' Party believes about this matter. We have a very pragmatic relationship with private use. We're using private as a regular, we're using private care, we're using private dentists, yes, we've almost doubled the allocations for health purposes through private during our reign. We're not the ones that have the sky notes on here, it's the other thing that's trying to construct a discussion that doesn't exist. We are in favour of a strong public sector with a private supplement where it is within popular democratic control.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2584	All those who have followed the Right Party and the Advance Party in recent years, and who have followed what these parties have been involved in health policy, see that this state budget corresponds to that. These batches have been concerned with prioritising treatment for drug addicts, rehabilitation and mental health. It does one in this budget position, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We can give priority, and we can get rid of the red-green cuts in mental health. We have been engaged in capacity and quality in the care of the elderly, and not least that the state should take greater responsibility. We do that in terms of capacity, and not least in terms of quality. Just as the competence of teachers is the most important factor in the student's benefits in school, so the competence of the nursing and care staff is the key to the quality of the users there. We have been clear that we want to use the free capacity of the private company to reduce unnecessary waiting. In all these three areas, the State budget adopted by the Stortinget today marks a change of course in relation to the previous government. This government shall introduce free treatment choices. There is also a majority in the United Kingdom who have joined, through the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties. It does not mean freedom of establishment, as part of the Workers' Party's speakers have spoken. No, that's precisely why I, as Minister of Health, recommended the Stortinget not to follow the red-green government's bill to introduce the freedom of establishment for private hospitals in Norway. We want an approval system. We have started work on developing a national health and hospital plan. It's coming to Stortinget. This will mean that what not only the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have wanted, but also the Center Party and SV have asked for for many years, namely that the Stortinge may be more likely to discuss the development of the specialist health service, is actually a matter for the Stortinget. But then we must also have the opportunity to spend so much time that it actually becomes a good management tool. It's strange to be criticized for an actual emphasis on it as the most important, and not a date when one is going to present it, which one is now being criticized for not being able to answer. We're going to develop a new management system. The representative Toppe noted that these parties had 17 proposals in last year's budget, and that she did not find many of them again now. I do not agree with that. Many of them lie and have been followed up in the budget proposal, but not just there. There's a significant difference from last year, which maybe the representative Toppe hasn't got along, and that's that these two parties are now in government. That means that we don't have to promote them as suggestions here, but work with them on the basis that many of them also form part of the government base. But therefore it is a little surprising that none of those who have been at the hearing in the committee have inspired the red-green parties to promote one single proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2597	We heard from the left in the election campaign and have heard from the representative de Ruiter in the debate today that this government is responsible for the privatisation of the health system. I think, to be absolutely honest, that the word change we have in Norway could have benefited from a clarification of what we really mean by privatisation. Today, red-green politicians use that term so inconsistently that it's almost impossible to understand what they mean when they say it. If we look at the health system today, it's quite right that the representative Micaelsen said that there's a lot of private use. An example is if you are in the firm, as is usually a self-employed person. This is perfectly fine for the red-green ones. But then we look at what the red-green parties have written in their notes. It says: ‘Private commercial operations no longer provide doctors, nurses or health professionals, nor increase the quality and patient safety of the population. These members believe that the path to better health and care services must be to further develop Community solutions in dialogue with patients, users and employees.» I'm too dialogue. This government is for dialogue – dialogue is essential. But is it the only answer the red-green politicians have on a policy that is about how we can use capacity that already exists in a better way? The consequence of the red-green policy is that capacity will not be used. Then the red-greens would like to think that the creation of this capacity leads to the fragmentation or weakening of professional environments. But doesn't it really make even more sense to say that the capacity that already exists is not going to be used by the public? That's what happens when you don't clearly define what you mean by the arguments you use. I mean it could be very useful with a clarification, once and for all. And you can say that, as it seems, the red-green definition of privatisation is at the heart of it: when is it okay, and when is it not okay? I think it would have been reasonable to clarify the boundary rise the red-greens have chosen to make, because it seems very unclear, to say it carefully. Then the rhetorical answer to it may be that you have a pragmatic approach to the use of private property, but then I think it's incredibly bad that the ideological justification for not using private property is breaking in when it comes to shortening waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2615	I'm going to take the word again. I have the choice of using my 3 minutes to respond to the criticism from the Right and the Advance Party or to bring out two fires, and then the choice is easy. Then, of course, I'll bring out two fires. First, I would like to say a few words about a project that is called Together in Need. It's a project that's under the leadership of the fire company and the streetman Olaf Lande. The project was launched in 2002 and is a low-threshold service for people who are struggling in our society. Together, in the event of an emergency, their activities have spread throughout the country, and cooperate widely with the public, voluntary and business community. Together, if Need does a huge job of small resources, and means a lot to all those who are being helped. The project also receives some support from the Health Directorate, but unfortunately we have seen a bleak tendency that the government does not want to prioritize this project despite very clear political signals. Even the Ministry's political leadership under the previous government has repeatedly appealed for funds to be allocated, and added to the Assembly on the budgets of the Need. I am pleased that this year too, a unanimous health and care committee has a clear and clear comment that this project should be given priority and, of course, expect this to be followed up. Natasha Pedersen, who is the head of the organization Yes, is a relief unit and care for children. Nothing is more important than children. And seriously ill children, who need our help, are the most vulnerable there are. That is why we in the Workers' Party are particularly grateful to those who are engaged in this important work, and Natasha's organisation is an important and necessary premiscuous supplier with good professional competence. I therefore hope that the proposed amount of 2 million. kr for increased knowledge and information on relief and care at the end of life for children and young people, which I will commend to the government for having proposed, and which we, the red-green opposition, support in our proposal, are used where they get the most effect. In my opinion, then, it would be most sensible to allow Yes to relieve units and care for children to dispose of these funds. I would urge the Minister of Health to pay extra attention to how these funds are used.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2629	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2632	The authorisation system referred to by the Council of State is a little interesting. It's a system we've had for many years in Norway, but it hasn't worked. There has not been a single private hospital or private hospital that has been stopped by this authorisation system, and it is not available in other countries. That is why we have said that we want continuous supervision and control of the specialist health service. Then the one-time approval is uninteresting. It should be interesting to see whether the government wants to stop some establishments by means of this approval system. I think you'll see first of all that it's going to be building up a pretty big bureaucracy, and then I think if you want to try to stop someone on something other than a professional basis, you'll be stopped by EEA law, which requires free competition. Public or private – then I believe that the public should be the main provider of services on demand from the government, and then private and non-profit should be a supplement. I often agree with the Christian People's Party and the representative of Bollestad on how this mix should be, so there I think we should find each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2641	It is not that if you run a private hospital, you don't have supervisory systems attached to it. Of course you do. There is also a need to provide a sound health service. What's a little bit interesting is just this public and private debate. The biggest privatisation that has taken place in the Norwegian health system is, of course, the permanent reform. All of them are private practitioners, that is, private health care. It's kind of weird that it's completely okay. If you damage your hand, it's not just that you should get inside your doctor, you're going to see the doctor to get a referral. But if you're going on and you're going to take an X-ray, then there are some people in this room who are worried that if you come to a private X-ray institute, it's problematic that you should go to a public one. It's not hanging in the jump! What is important is that the person who has just damaged his hand should have a diagnosis and start treatment, so that you can either get back to work or at least get rid of your health problems as soon as possible. Very much works very well in the Norwegian health care system, but there are challenges. What I very much appreciate about what the Minister for Health has just done is precisely the national health and health plan. It's a part that's capable of criticizing it, saying that it takes too long, and that we have to get started. There are some of the same representatives who are concerned that regional health businesses may not be put down anyway. I was at this house – and still at Stortinget, in fact – when the regional health companies were established. Just to refresh your memory a little: after the Health Business Act was put in place, it took a very long time for hospitals to establish their own opening balance sheet, which meant that these companies were actually out of control in many areas for a very long time. That's exactly why it's important that the document you're about to make your decisions is as thorough as possible, so that we have a control of the processes when things need to be reorganized. I believe that the Storting agrees that it is important that this document is in place. In addition, in conclusion: I support what de Ruiter was in his closing post. Then, fortunately, he was not so worried anymore, but he came back with very good things, and referred to things that this government and this magnificence will prioritize. It's important with these fires, it's these fires and voluntary sector that have the extra heat and the extra warm hands in the care that we're going to show our fellow human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2656	It is in such debates as this that you like to think a few rounds about what kind of arguments you can cross, so that they hit our opponents as hard as possible. I understand that the representative Nesvik and the health minister have been thinking about a few rounds. But I'm a little fascinated that what they came up with was a criticism of the red-green parties that we're not making proposals today, when the situation is that the budget we vote on – except for some marginal changes – is promoted by our government. What we could choose to hare down a little bit is that the parties that for years have told us how seductive the previous government was, when they have the power to make changes, choose to make only marginal changes. That's what's interesting. If Nesvik and Höie had read the red-green notes, they would also see that we have made it clear how we would re-prioritize within our own arrangement, if it had been accepted. The right-hand side has been good at neutering for many years. I notice that in the debate on privatisation, the Right Party and the Advance Party representatives consistently choose to talk about private and ideals, as if ideal actors were not private. What is interesting is that we have two types of private actors: ideal and commercial. On the red-green side, we have been concerned with distinguishing between a policy to promote all private actors and to promote a policy to strengthen the ideals. Because it's not that it's the same prescription that goes to achieve the two things. On the contrary, a competitive situation in which ideal and commercial ones will meet without any measures to strengthen the ideals will be a safe way of building up the non-profit sector. That is what we fear, when we have now received a government that is very pleased with tenders, which wants a reform for more commercialisation in healthcare, that we will both have a development that the ideals will lose out on, a development in which there will be tougher competition for the skills and labour needed by the public health service and, most importantly, that we will have the wrong way of prioritizing because we are at risk of getting a health cow where it is not that they go first with the greatest need, but where those who pay the most go first. That is why we are criticising the privatisation policy. I notice that those parties that have talked for many years about the private allergy of the previous government seem to have an initial attack of public allergy through their decisions to earmark new money for private people, regardless of what kind of opportunities exist to solve the same public health problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2669	I'm so lucky I don't have allergies. A few years ago, I attended a seminar on social entrepreneurship where entrepreneurs from various care establishments met to share experiences. I say care businesses, even though it's a bit narrower definition of social entrepreneurship, which are commercial companies that aim to make money and at the same time help or lift people in a difficult situation. One of those companies was some in Trondheim, or "someone" that they might say, where founder Heidi Wang had a demented father that she thought should get a better and more adapted follow-up of the municipality. But every time she was in contact with the public with suggestions, she often got the answer that yes, someone should. Finally, she did it herself. Now the company offers some activity and care services to people with dementia with guidance and assistance to have better working days. The offer is a supplement to the family and to the public. Is dementia a simple diagnosis that someone just wants to make money on? That is how it sounds when the opposition criticises the government when we want to use the free capacity and competence of private individuals in health and care services. My experience is that the vast majority of people who are entrepreneurs in health and care businesses either do it because they are affected and engaged, or do it because they can do many of the same services as the public, but perhaps in a smarter, better or cheaper way. No matter what the driving force is, I would like to welcome them. Much of the public health service also comes from private initiatives, whether we talk about Florence Nightingale as a pioneer in modern nursing, or the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, which founded the health centres and drove them until the municipalities took over in the 1970s. Private initiative has tested, tried and implemented new solutions that, when they are found to be scalable, can be integrated into a wide range of public services and/or can continue to provide services in cooperation or in competition with the public. I think that's healthy for public health, which gets someone to compare with, but not least for the patient, who gets a broader offer. The fear that the private should only take the simple diagnosis and make good money on these, I think I'm exaggerated, but I don't mind if someone makes money that I'm getting well. In addition, I believe that private operators can offer both parts, offers to demente, or take the queue off e.g.. hip operations. By having more people who can offer the same service, we can get new methods, more effective treatment, and then also the opportunity to treat more people. We can also check the use of resources. When the Riksrevision reveals that a hip replacement operation in a public hospital costs twice as much as in private, it hopefully leads to public teachers of the private – that we can operate twice as many at the same price, instead of paying twice as much. Someone, and then I don't mean the private care company in Trondheim, has tried to put tax reliefs against increased welfare. This government knows that there are no contradictions — in fact, the Right has clear, the last time they were in government, to reduce taxes while reducing health cows. I'm sure we'll make it again when we use all the good forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2688	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2691	I understand that it is uncomfortable for the right-hand side to have a discussion about choices in welfare policy, including health policy. I think it is important to have a balance sheet both within this sector and in other sectors in order not to be free of market forces. A society in which market forces are free is not a society in which there are small differences and equal opportunities, but a society in which those with the most are most active. That is why I fully agree with Mr Nesvik that the healthcare system must exist for the benefit of patients and not for other reasons. I also record that both the Medical Association, the Nursing Association and the Trade Union, the employees' organisations in the hospitals, have not exactly taken the wave to allow one to use funds freely in the private sector, while at the same time having strict control over the use of public health services. Then I choose to listen to the professional expert, those who work, those who wear the shoe, and not necessarily on the right-hand side in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2698	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2701	We have done well in the setting with a casual remark on how our budgetary procedure is this year. Nevertheless, the Council of State from the Chair claims that this means that we have not done our job in view of the hearings, as it is not a proposal. I will certainly reject that. That criticism goes back on its own party traps in many ways, because they don't end up with our comments, which are exactly based on what came up on the listeners. I can mention: From the National Association of Peoples on the provision of daily activities to people with dementia, from the Cancer Association on the need for HPV vaccines to several groups, from Norwegian Water if not to reduce 15 million. for better drinking, from the Norwegian Parkinson’s Association on national professional guidelines for better Parkinson’s treatment, and to establish several departments for decentralised lighting treatments. There is a lot of good in our comments, which we hope the Council of State is looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2708	I can assure the representative de Ruiter that it is not unpleasant to talk about government policy, neither to reduce health cows nor to bring the patient's waiting time down. What's interesting in this debate is that what the representative de Ruiter calls a disassembly of the health care system, the representative calls Mikalsen to have a pragmatic approach to solving the challenges. For me, it seems that the Workers' Party is in fact completely in disagreement with itself about what is right in this debate. And then we get criticism to do too little from the representative Lysbakken and more. There's some things that aren't completely related here. I have to say that I think it's special to hear the rhetoric. Nor are we talking about privatisation, we are talking about solving their health challenges – for public funds in public or private hospitals. I think the posts of the red-green politicians almost testify that they don't have particular faith in the public. I think the vast majority of patients are very satisfied with the treatment they receive in public hospitals. I think the vast majority of patients will choose a public hospital to meet their needs. For us, however, it is important that when there is not enough capacity, the capacity of private actors must be used – for public funds. Then there was a comment from the Ruits, who said he wanted controlled forms. As far as I can recall, the Minister of Health, the times he has talked about it, mentioned free treatment choices such as that private hospitals do agreed operations at agreed prices within agreed frameworks – quite controlled, in other words. Here I think we can be sure that both public and private hospitals will be able to do what they are good at. Then I want to mention a topic that was mentioned so far in the lines – this because we defuse the public sector, or that using private hospitals requires more staff. I think the red-green government has done very little with the widespread use of unwanted part-time. The representative, Kjeseth, was so much involved. The SSB has actually mapped out that we could get 24,000 more in full-time jobs, if you had done something about this topic. Here we have many challenges to tackle. It's about good tour arrangements, and it's about good working conditions, so people can get to work full time in a demanding care profession. I am sure that the new government will do more in this field than the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2721	This government has spent $4 billion. kr more than the previous government. What we see in the contours is that there's a lot of stuff going on that's being parked or exposed. In the field of justice, we see that preparedness and prisons are being transformed into new action plans and new assessments. We see it in health, where we're going to have a new hospital plan, which postpones some of the efforts that were on the stairs in the hospital area. We see it in the field of aid and refugees. It's health and welfare help for the poorest in the world, and so this government has cut it off. In Stortinget it was put in again, not in the case of refugees, but in the aid budget – with 4 billion. kr more to use. It has been discussed whether there has been a breach of health policy – I should not say whether it is lifting break or adult training that has marked the position over the past few weeks. I will not repeat the examples mentioned earlier in the debate, but I find it strange that it is being produced as if one of the great evidences that the red-green government has failed is that there was an increase in health insurance. Then I expect the Council of State can guarantee that the share of health insurance will decrease, now that we get a commercialised healthcare service. I also ask myself the question: if it's good with the organisation that I see the outlines of, which the position suggests, why is it not extended – over to the public health work as well? Public health work is one of the main challenges facing us in Norway in the future. I think there has been too little debate, I think there has been little focus on it in that position, in the media and also in the settings of the new government. Why not use the arguments that are so good for health care, even in the case of public health work? The local economy was also something that should not be weakened. With $4 billion. kr more the municipalities could be strengthened. Now we see that the changes in the nursery allowances have a major impact on the municipalities. It will also affect the public health work of children and young people where they live, i.e. in the municipalities. The ideological difference between us is, as I see it, one thing: the working party and the red-green government had a goal that the new government does not have – we had a high goal of balancing social differences in society. It is not present in the new government statement. We also see that through the decisions that have been taken to spend $4 billion. kr more – the vast majority of billions go to those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2735	The road to this government is to treat more people with a right to health care. To that end, we will use both private and non-profit actors as a complement to the public. Of course, private and non-profit actors must operate within controlled frameworks – something else is pure terror propaganda. I would also like to comment that although the Workers' Party has removed deductions from private health insurance, health insurance has increased. There I do not think I have received a good answer. It's because the public doesn't take away the need – that's why people want to make sure. What this government wants is that more people with the right to treatment should get this for free.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2744	I'm not surprised at the polarization that the right-hand side and the left-hand side add up here. But in the middle, there's a third way that the Left and Christian People's Party represents, with the commitment to volunteering. I was in my introduction to the idea that we can build up the voluntary sector, that we are obliged to spend more money on it. Today, we have a challenge of capacity and organisation. That is why we need to use the voluntary sector in social entrepreneurship and innovation to create the public health and prevention we need to spend less money on the other end – which we are criticising today is that someone will spend both more private players and more public money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2751	It has been interesting to follow this debate. We are going to adopt a budget that concerns most people in Norway. The health system has many employees and many users, and then it's a little strange that the debate is not about the patients and the employees who treat them. What matters to patients is how they are met by the health care system – at this moment of truth in which the patient meets his doctor, the sick person gets his care, and the person who is struggling meets his therapist. It can sometimes be said that we have two types of health professionals in Norway: the warmth and caregivers in the public health sector and they call the capitalists who produce private health services. The right-hand side starts with the patient, and we think the patient is able to make his own choices. We also have confidence that health professionals are health professionals, regardless of who pays their wages. It sounds like the election is between Florence Nightingale and Gordon Gekko. No, it doesn't. It's about what's right for one, it's about not being right for the other. Not all employees find themselves at ease in our public health institutions. Then it's great that they can find work in the private sector. The same applies to patients. It is problematic that buying more healthcare in private gives more private turnover — of course it does. But based on the patient, the quality of patient treatment and waiting time have been controlling. It all boils down to whether or not you have confidence that private actors in health care have good intentions for patients or not, and whether or not those who work in the private part of health care feel as bound by rules, ethics and morals as the rest, and whether or not you accept that people are different and like to have different preferences. The right has confidence in all parts of the Norwegian healthcare system, we trust health professionals in Norway, and we know that our citizens can and will make different choices. Large words have been used in the debate, but oral health policy does not help patients who are in line for too long and are forced into long sick leave. It does not help the youth with anxiety waiting for help as anxiety grows. Oral health policy also does not help the addict who wants to get his or her life back on track, but who gets suspended because of a few long-term places and too little rehabilitation and aftercare. What helps these people is political priority, visibility and actual budgetary decisions that really improve their situation. It may seem more important for the red-greens to exclude private operators than to bring down health cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2764	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2767	Just a brief comment on Mr. Örmen Johnsen's comments on private health insurance: she said that people are taking out private health insurance. But they don't. The most important of the private health insurances we have in Norway are taken out by employers. So you can go into a discussion about why they do it. The research that has been done on it suggests that they have relatively little left for it, but it is in any case a development I think is unfortunate. And I think it's especially when the Right cares so much about that development, because there's only one government that wanted it, and it was the previous bourgeois government -- that introduced tax deductions, that we saw abolished. So the fact that the Right – of all – thinks it’s bad that someone is drawing private health insurance, I think I have low credibility. In that case, the Right should thank the Red-Green Government for wisely removing the tax deduction introduced by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2772	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2775	I think we might need a broader debate related to what's going on with private health insurance. If you're going to get to the bottom of it, you have to look at why you're drawing these private health insurances. It is precisely linked to the uncertainty as to how quickly a treatment is administered if it is needed. The reason for the emergence of this market is precisely that it has not been possible to treat patients within time limits which make them happy with what is there. Within today's system, after eight years by the red-green majority, it is that where it has increased most, where it has really taken off, it is among those who can pay for these services themselves, because there has been a considerable amount of free capacity in the private health system, that is, the private part – the commercial part, which some call it. And the ones who can take advantage of it are the ones that have the thickest wallet. In fact, this government wants more people to access, more people to get help, the queues to go down, and then we have to use the entire capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2782	The representative Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2785	I drew myself at the very end just to comment on a post from the representative de Ruiter instead, who referred to it as pathetic that the government removed the school fruit. We actually told the voters before the election. We were clear on what our priorities were. What I'm worried about is that the red-green government thought it was so good to remove the program called "Psychiatric Health in School" – 17.8 million. kr – which is really targeted for children and young people to have a good community and better association at school. I am also concerned about the two children of Rome, who we read about this weekend. The type of programmes for ‘Psychiatric Health in School’ is fully targeted at building good communities in schools and classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2792	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2808	Basic Law § 100 establishes the following: «Friendly Opinions on the Swedish National Board of Directors and any other Item are Any Allowable». And... "It is for the authorities of the State to bring matters to justice for an open and public debate." The right to freedom of expression is also governed by the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. Both are incorporated in Norwegian law through the Human Rights Act § 2. The right to express itself without fear of represals is therefore a fundamental human right and a premise for a well-functioning democracy. Wise policy choices are made by the populace in an open communication with professionals who know how to print the shoe. Health is dependent on having a culture of openness to ensure the necessary improvements and good patient safety. Many suggest that our health care system does not have such a culture of openness today. The Constitution states that only «heavy consideration» can speak to limit any of its freedom of expression. However, many employers today place great emphasis on the loyalty of health professionals to their workplaces. What loyalty requirements can be imposed by the employer without infringing the Constitutional Protection Act is little debate. When the Storting changed Section 100 of the Constitution in 2004, one made it clear that the obligation of loyalty is not just an assessment of the concern of the candidate and the employer. Contributions from competent candidates are of great value also for the open information and public debate in a democratic society. Only statements that are demonstrably detrimental to the employer’s interests can be regarded as unfair. When health professionals and municipalities refer to violations of communication strategies, ethical guidelines and a duty of loyalty that they themselves have defined, the question of whether these are particularly serious reasons for a freedom of expression. This trend was problematic by the Commission’s freedom of expression as early as 2003. Public agencies and municipalities develop media strategies that place too little emphasis on freedom of expression. Many regulations have an unfortunate priority of silence as the foremost expression of loyalty, while freedom of speech is strongly downplayed. A doctoral thesis by Hogne Sata Island at the University of Bergen shows that the number of communication workers in Norwegian hospitals is double after the introduction of the enterprise model in 2002. Almost all the communication directors are in hospital guidance. Businesses are extremely concerned about their reputation and about the driving of reputation. Sickhouses are apparently infected by the brand structure that is in the private sector. This gives less room for professionals to express themselves. Hogne Sata Island says to BT on 28 January 2012 that hospitals should be more concerned with operating hips than with fighting for the media. He's right. The impact of the enterprise model and the underlying business-economy governance principle is less public awareness with greater concentration of power in health bureaucracies. In municipalities, too, there has been a development in which reputation and reputation have become more and more important. This means that professionals in the local health service also have less and less room to express themselves as professionals. Examples are many and serious. A hospital supervisor at UNN and the municipality of Tromsø experienced a failure in the treatment supply and wrote a chronicle on the theme. When newspaper Nordlys goes into print, the local authority stands alone as author. The hospital director, Tor Ingebrichtsen, admits that the hospital doctor was ‘recommended’ to draw the article. The e-mail from the hospital director to the superior was crystal clear: ‘You received an oral warning in January. If this is printed, I cannot see that I have any choice but to give you a written warning." General Berg at Nordfjord Hospital was threatened with fire after he publicly criticized the reduction of the patient supply at the local hospital. To the NRK on 21 June 2011, he told the superior that he had been called to a meeting with the Enterprise Leadership at two hours' notice, where he received written warning and was told to deliver information he had previously shown to leading politicians on the Stortinget. VG wrote in January 2012 about superior and gynecologist Arne Järnbert, also at Nordfjord Hospital. After Hurricane 'Dagmar' his herrings on the North West, he went out in local fashion with criticism of the hospital's poor preparedness for crisis. An e-mail on the wrong side showed that the trade director Breidablikk in Health Förde wanted Järnbert ‘out of the organisation as soon as possible’ if he went on with matters in the media. An investigation by the NRC in 2011 showed that about half of the approximately 2,000 added to Oslo University Hospitals were afraid to report critical relations with the media. In the investigation almost answered 58 pst. by those who asked from the Norwegian Medical Association that they were in whole or in part some of the claims that there is a fear culture at the OUS. 66 pst. by the members of the Medical Association, they answered the same question. It is not only in cases where health professionals are given the right to express themselves. In the municipality of Rana, he was recently severely criticised by a medical doctor after he went out in the fall and was critical that 36 hospital places in the municipality could be laid down. The councillor in the municipality of Rana then sent out an information letter to all members of the municipality with the following apologies: In matters of budget and financial plan, only the councillor and no one else can speak on behalf of the municipality of Rana. In writing, it was made clear that for the later years, sanctions would be imposed if someone added perpetrated violations of the duty of loyalty. I've shown you a selection of freedom of speech issues that have been mentioned in the media. I know many other cases of the same gross nature that are not known, because they it's in, they don't have the power to stand up. I have personally learned that health professionals have been called in on the carpet and received written warnings after contacting me as a public authority at Stortinget. Such a knuckle system cannot be tolerated. Freedom of expression is not a mere decision. There's something you have to practice. In particular, it is important to ensure that freedom of expression for health professionals is practised through conversion processes, many of which are in the healthcare system. It is a responsibility to ensure a healthy rise in the border between loyalty and freedom of expression. It is a responsibility for the local rental in the service location. It's a responsibility for the municipal rental and the company's management. And it's a responsibility for the Storting and for the Minister of Health and Care. Those who are in such situations need to know that they have professional and political leaders who support them. They need to know that they can express themselves without fear of reprisals or to experience unseen sanctions such as: to be ignored at the next call for proposals. Half of the laymen in Norwegian hospitals are temporarily added. Over 90 pst. the specialisation legacies are temporarily added. Many hospitals and major hospital wards do not have local housing. Lack of firmness and lack of local leaders in a public health system with a strong focus on branding and strict communication regulations is a system that prevents the public debate and poses a real threat to freedom of expression and openness in our healthcare system. There is a need for guidelines on how far a hospital or counsellor can go in order to limit his freedom of expression. The Minister of Health and Welfare must clarify, in the 2014 mission document or in any other way, to the undertaking that its freedom of expression is a fundamental right. The same should be said to the municipalities. A review should be carried out by all healthcare professionals and municipalities of their communication regulations and their practice. The government should also assess a legal review of the limits of the duty of loyalty in the labour market, as recommended by the EIA in 2003, and allow the Stortinget to discuss this in a separate announcement on freedom of expression. In the meantime, the Minister of Health and Welfare should consider the creation of an independent Freedom of Speech Council, which helps to add those who experience threats or harassment after speaking publicly as professionals. The Minister of Health and Health must also ensure continuity in the work on permanent health care and local renting in all hospitals. Health professionals must also be required to ensure genuine freedom of expression for those adding there in supply processes and supply contracts with private health providers. The objective is a health service based on an open-minded culture with an on-the-job climate that ensures that relevant information — including critical statements — reaches the right level. Health professionals must be widely accepted to participate in public vocabulary within the framework of a liberal act of loyalty. To exclude health professionals from the public debate will ultimately affect those for whom health care is available, i.e. patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2857	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic that I know affects and engages very many of those who work in our healthcare system. There should be no doubt that employees in Norwegian hospitals have real freedom of expression. The right to speak freely and without fear of reprisals is a fundamental human right and a prerequisite for a functioning democracy. The state, as the owner of regional health enterprises, is committed to providing the best possible health care service to the population. It is important that employees and the population have confidence that the State manages ownership professionally and in accordance with the applicable principles. In line with the government's ownership policy and the Working Environment Act § 2-4, the Ministry of Health and Health has asked the regions to ensure that hospitals develop good systems to warn about critical situations. Notifications shall be received and processed in a professional manner which respects the rights of the alert. As an example, I can mention that Health Bergen has put in place a system of alerts appointed by the company's work environment committee. The notified body shall, inter alia: assist alerts who do not wish to notify the employer. I believe that this is a good arrangement that shows that the company is working well to facilitate the situation in order to inform about critical circumstances. It's a leadership responsibility to make sure that it's an actual and real freedom of expression, and an actual and real opportunity to warn about critical conditions for hospital employees. I have great confidence that the leaders are following this in a good way. Setting the conditions for comments will also strengthen the hospital's reputation. The Health Business Group in Health South-East has developed a common communication poster with clear calls for transparency, clarity and accessibility. This is underlined on the Health South-East website. It says that employees must raise the necessary counter-conceptions before a case is settled. The aim is to get the most complete picture of the considerations and values that are relevant to the matter. In the business meetings with regional health enterprises, it is stressed that there is a great deal to be done to ensure that opinions of own employees are contrary to the loyalty obligation in all employment conditions. Therefore, where criticism is raised, undertakings shall assess whether the opinion is intended to entail changes or whether it should be met with counter-posts. There are few areas of society that have been debated as thoroughly as healthcare. My impression is that not at least very many of the employees participate in these debates, either as individuals or through organisations, and that very many employees also have easy access to the media, either as a professional or as a spokesperson for an organisation, if they have views on health situations. It's very good – and that's the way it should be in the future. I have also always been clear that the voice of users should be heard in everything that concerns changing and developing healthcare. In many contexts, employees are also users. Hospitals shall bear critical questions from those who know the business from the inside. Employee involvement and involvement are crucial to improving the quality of services and patient safety. Any employer may decide who is to be heard on behalf of the enterprise. Of course, this also applies to the hospitals as an employer. It is natural to point out that workers also have a loyalty obligation and that the Labour Environment Act has a health and safety requirement for alerting. It is a prerequisite that opinions do not take place in such a way as to unduly damage the interests of the employer. An example is the relationship with the media. Those who speak must show loyalty to patients and relatives. They shall respect the obligation of professional secrecy and protect the integrity of patients. In particular, they need to exercise care in relation to information that can identify patients or relatives. However, none of this must be seen as a restriction on the freedom of expression of workers. As I have said before, there must be a very high threshold to claim that the loyalty obligation is broken, or that an alert was not sound. In the specialist health service, there are also a number of notification schemes in which the employee is partly obliged to report. I will briefly mention some of them: notification to the Knowledge Centre of events that have led or could lead to significant injury to patients, cf. Section 3-3 of the Special Health Service Act on Serious Incidents to the State Health Authority pursuant to the Special Health Service Act § 3-3 a notification to the police on unnatural deaths according to the Health Personnel Act § 36, cf. regulation on medical notification to the police of unnatural deaths notification of failure of medical devices and electromedical devices to the Health Directorate under the Medical Device Act § 11 Most reporting obligations are imposed on the establishment, but require employees to notify and report adverse events. Those notification mechanisms shall contribute to the detection of adverse events and risk areas and follow-up of management and responsible actors with measures to prevent similar events. Reporting arrangements must be viewed as part of employees’ rights and obligations and are essential to patient safety. Creating a culture of transparency where a person has a high ceiling to be clear and feel something about his or her own job is therefore a prerequisite for the use of the statutory reporting mechanisms. There's got to be a good environment to be in hospitals. The opinions of employees are an important part of the public debate. Regional health establishments shall contribute to strengthening the freedom of information and expression and the democratic participation of hospital staff. It is a management responsibility that the situation has been facilitated for opinions and to inform about critical matters. This has been addressed and will be addressed in the business meetings with the regional health establishments. Of course, there is a great deal of tension in opinions, from what the interpellant mentions as examples of alerts that have their own protective regime and status, and which are reserved for serious situations, where employees are afraid that giving notice will have consequences for their own position or position, and to the other extreme, to participate in the public health policy debate, for which there is, of course, great room for manoeuvre. Between this, there are many areas in which a health professional in hospitals encounters more difficult situations, such as: where one is not only an employee but also has a management position in which one is responsible for the implementation of hospital decisions. Health professionals are also in a situation where they have great authority over the public, the users of hospitals and the users of health services. It is also important that one thinks through, that one does not use the authority that one has as a health professional, that one can be perceived as, and in many areas, the patient’s spokesperson, for example. to promote the specific interests of its own organisation in a decision-making process. It is also important that, in many contexts, one is loyal to the decision-making process to take place in a hospital or in a part of the healthcare system. It is also important that managers have the opportunity to deal with their employees. For example, if one has agreed on a way of prioritizing the measures to be resourced in a hospital, it is important for the sake of the collegial feeling towards others who are loyal to that process that one does not go side by side and contacts directly with the Storting in order to overestimate that kind of process. But transparency about health and policies is crucial, and that is why we also rely on employees in health services to be participants in the public debate on health services and to be clearly informed if they agree or disagree with decisions or health issues. It's about trust in our health care system, and trust in our health care system is crucial to take care of. Not least in serious crisis situations, it is important that the population trusts that we have a good health system, where employees dare to give notice if they believe that there are critical conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2920	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I was a little excited about the answer from the Council of State, because the Council of State's answer is important, and it's an important signal also to businesses and municipalities what the Council of State answers to these questions. What I have learned when I talk to health professionals who have stood up and e.g. write a chronicle in a newspaper, is that everyone reports that they get a lot of feedback from others at the workplace. Of course, they are often some of those who write, but what those who write get the most feedback about is: That you dare! There's information that makes me very worried. I don't think we know enough about this in health care. I think there is a need for a review, for example. how they add this experience. Is it a so-called fear culture, or isn't it? I could imagine asking the Council of State if he would initiate such a review. I could also imagine getting a better response to the proposal to go through the communication regulations in companies, and also preferably in the municipalities, and looking at the practice of them, if this is in line with the constitutional protection of freedom of expression. I would also like to hear a comment on the proposal to get a big message that will give you a legal review of the loyalty obligation, because this is at the heart of the problem. When the Freedom of Speech Commission presented its recommendation in 1999, they recommended such a legal review. It was not done, and that is where we stand today, that each workplace can define it more by itself. I would also like to hear the Council's response to the recent example from the municipality of Rana, where a medical doctor is strongly criticised for having expressed his opinion on the closure of hospital facilities, and also on the other cases that have been known in the media about other matters. What the Council of State finally said, health professionals have to think that they have an authority as health professionals, and that they have to be faithful to decision-making processes, I would like the Council of State to deepen, because here there are some difficulties that can make them feel that their freedom of expression is weak.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2933	I am also concerned when the health service representative Toppe says that health workers report back to others, who now express themselves that they are surprised that a dry person, and that one is in some way afraid to express himself. It's not good, and it shouldn't be like that either. Participation in the debate on health policy, participation in the debate on how health services in their area are, is important. As Minister of Health, I would also like to stress that I believe it is positive and important for the debate on health policy that those who work in the healthcare system, who are in the real situation every single day, also participate in the debate and contribute with their perspective. I assume that there are no health companies that have communication regulations and platforms that are contrary to law and regulation. So I don't see any need for us to start a check-up on it, unless someone can point to examples that there are rules that are just against the law. Then we might have to look at it, but I don't know about it. As regards the follow-up to the work of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and any legal review in this area, it is under the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State, so I cannot comment on that. Of course, I cannot comment on the specific case in the municipality of Rana, which I do not have any prerequisites for thinking about. I also believe that it is important to facilitate, in general, the free movement of health workers. Even I have the rule as Minister of Health that when I travel around and visit our hospitals, I always have a meeting with the trusted ones, without the management being present, in case anyone should feel that the presence of management would tie them in when it came to what they could tell about their perception of the situation. This means that all trustees in the hospitals I visit have the opportunity to provide a completely undefiled description of how they experience the place and their work situation, and to address all other matters without being afraid that this – if they do not want it – will be referred to others. Because it is important that we do not have a culture of fear in Norwegian hospitals or in Norwegian health services, but on the contrary creates a basis for a good opportunity to participate in the debate. When it comes to the last relationship that Toppe took up, I think it's important that a health professional also thinks about his role in a discussion. When you have an authority as a health professional and e.g. Of course, it is important that a person thinks through that dual role and what means he will use in such a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2946	I would like to thank the representative Toppe for taking up an important matter, and although I did not get the full answer from the Council of State, I came with enough to understand that they both agree that transparency is good, transparency is desirable. All of this I just want to say is that I support the whole heart. There's nothing to fear about openness. Knowing things, getting things into the light, that you can disagree, but still can meet for discussion in dignified and proper forms, I think I can only help to get our healthcare a step further, rather than that it should be harmful. Nor do I have any reason to say that there is any culture of fear in Norway. I have already started to travel, and I will travel more and visit many parts of the Norwegian health care system in the next few months. Then, of course, I'll talk to people and hear what you dare to say, what you might not dare to say, and who you don't dare to say things to. In Norway, we already have a rather open health system. We have reports of patient injury and waiting time. You can freely choose hospitals based on different parameters. This is good. However, the Minister of Health is concerned with something essential in his response, for this discussion must be carried out at the same time by the individual, who is taking part in a public debate — in the public domain — with dignity and awareness of authority. I tend to use an example from another sector – for example, the police. There are also major discussions – right now about the future of the Länsmann Office. Is there to be a bilgeman locally, or is the office to be located elsewhere? I think everyone can agree that it would be very unfortunate if you, for example, On the part of individuals or the police, it warns against jeopardising social security — that is, using words that go very far in such a discussion. Similarly, the health care system. A lot of people believe that as a society, but also that people who are assigned to carry out tasks – people who trust and who are to be safe – don't create unnecessary fear or say things that are put on the head can be interpreted incorrectly because you don't have all the other kind of knowledge. I am sure that the very people, most of them in Norwegian healthcare, are aware of this. Many who participate in the public vocabulary show this, are conscious of their authority, maintain integrity and see that there are often shades around things – that things are not black and white. Finally, I would like to say that the most important thing we can contribute to, as well as having a public debate on the Norwegian health system in which representatives from the sector also participate, is that the decision-making processes within the sector must be so good that people feel heard. Then we have to have good leaders – better leaders than we have today – who dare to involve at the right time, who dare to engage in the dilemmas, who invite dialogue, but who also inform us that up to one point we can discuss how the fillers feel, but at some point a decision must be made, and everybody must respect that. By doing it that way, I think we're getting people with us to a greater extent than you might have seen in some change and conversion processes that the sector's been through over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2959	Thanks for the interpellation. As new in the Storting, it was my first, and it was an exciting interpellation. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health and Care stresses that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has asked the health regions to ensure that hospitals develop good systems for warning of critical situations. I also think it is good for the Minister of Health to stress that it is a management responsibility to ensure that there is both an actual and a real freedom of expression to alert precisely about critical matters, both for employees and patients at hospitals. The right to express itself freely and without fear of represals is fundamental, and that is a human right and a prerequisite for that democracy and the trust we are to have. This applies, of course, to health enterprises, but also elsewhere, and alerts must be received and processed both in a professional manner that respects alerts’ rights. I also believe that having a culture to improve quality and tell and report on adverse events strengthens the reputation and reputation of a health company. Several health businesses are actively working to create better systems for dealing with precisely adverse events. For example, Health South-East in its revised Quality and Patient Safety Guide in October 2013 has now focused on organisational learning and improvement. The objective of reporting non-conformities and criticising them must be to improve the quality of service provided. There are also currently several notification systems and systems for reporting non-conformities. I would like to stress, as the Minister of Health also said in his statement, that after 1 January 2012, the obligation to notify is provided for in sections 3 to 3 of the Special Health Service Act, where an unwanted incident is to be reported that led to significant patient injury or that could have led to patient injury. It shall be sent to the National Knowledge Centre within 24 hours and to the State Health Authority no later than the next day. It is important that patients and relatives can also express themselves freely without fear of represals. They must be able to register their complaints and suggestions for improvement in an aberration system, and it must also apply to co-operative health professionals such as permanent practitioners, hospital workers and other hospital staff. They must be able to register complaints and also make criticisms. The directors of health enterprises have a separate responsibility to follow up the quality assurance work of the enterprise. The Management Board, together with its management, shall work continuously to create a culture of transparency and trust and request information on this. It is therefore important that the Management Board follow-up studies to monitor both patient satisfaction and employee satisfaction. If employees are anxious and do not dare to say so, this must be taken into account, and it would be desirable to find out in such investigations. It is important that patients, relatives and the public are better informed about the quality of healthcare treatment, for example: is the transparency of the quality indicator important for both patients, healthcare and health authorities. It is important that patients have information about quality and that healthcare uses it in the improvement work. Openness about critical issues is necessary, but there is also a borderline between criticism and policy – and by policy, I mean where employees disagree with local priorities and national priorities. Of course you have to influence that with opinions, but there's a boundary line there. The Minister of Health and Health stressed that there was a great deal to be done to ensure that the opinions of employees were contrary to the duty of loyalty, which applies to all employment. Hospitals have to tolerate critical referrals, and it is not unnatural that hospitals have a communication strategy or speech staff. There is hardly a day without negative reports from hospitals in the media, but it shall not prevent employees from commenting or engaging in quality improvements. I'm glad the minister just made that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2978	Fortunately, in this country the right to express itself freely and without fear of represals in some form is a human right and a prerequisite for what we can call a well-functioning democracy. Of course, this right also applies to Norwegian health professionals. As the owner of the regional health companies, the State has an additional responsibility for making employees in Norwegian hospitals feel comfortable to make comments about the state of the Norwegian health care system, including in critical situations. Hospitals will tolerate criticism from those who know the business from the inside. My impression is that this is also the case, although unfortunately there are exceptions. As the Council of State said in its statement, health care employees have both a right and an obligation to say so, and he showed that in the specialist health service there are a number of mechanisms in which employees have obligations to do so. For example, in line with the Health Services Act, the State Health Authority shall be notified of serious incidents. In line with the Health Care Act, the police are to be notified of unnatural deaths. Notification of failure of medical and electromedical devices shall be notified to the Health Directorate by law of medical devices. Although the reporting obligation is imposed on the establishments, it presupposes that employees notify and report adverse events. It is important that employees are aware that the notification arrangements are both a right and an obligation. In order to optimise hospitals, they are dependent on employees who dare to alert. It is one thing to have the formal guidelines in place, which states that employees have both this right and this obligation to notify, something quite different is whether there is actually a culture of transparency in the business, such as Toppe addresses in its interpellation. It is appropriate to mention that when changes were made to the warning paragraph a few years ago, the Progress Party considered that the protection did not go far enough. It is enough to show that from time to time you can meet people who have been frozen after warning or, in the worst case, cancelled. It is totally unacceptable. Transparency must ensure the legal certainty of the alert. A culture of transparency can not only be adopted, it must also be created. It is created by all of us, from the help nurse in the nursing home to we who sit in the Storting Health and Care Committee and work on health issues every day. We can all ask ourselves if we're good enough to listen to the warnings we get. Are we following up the phone we received on a Friday afternoon from a nurse who feels that the residents of a nursing home are not getting the help they are entitled to? Do we take the matter further when, on a county visit, we hear from an employee of a local hospital that the offer is inappropriate? While workers have both the right and the obligation to report critical matters, a worker also has the obligation of loyalty, and an obligation to comply with the safety requirements of the Employment Environment Act in relation to how alerts are to be made. This is particularly important with regard to the use of media. It is particularly important to show loyalty to patients and relatives and to be careful with regard to the use of information that can identify patients or relatives. Not least, the obligation of professional secrecy must always be respected. There are few policy areas that are as frequently discussed and debated as health policy, and there are a few days — if any — the country’s largest newspapers do not have health notices. It is therefore close to concluding: yes, we have a culture of transparency in the Norwegian healthcare system, yet we can always get better. I would therefore like to thank Mr Toppe for having an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e2999	The public debate has revealed a management culture in several hospitals and in municipalities that makes it difficult to provide professional advice or warnings on critical issues. As the representative Toppe says, there have been reports of penalties against individuals who are faced with criticism of patient treatment. For the Christian People's Party, a value mobilization in healthcare is an important tool to reach out and work on this particular issue, which I think is very important. We believe that we have a unique opportunity now when it comes to making a health and hospital plan at national level. These values that I am now talking about need to be anchored in the Ministry of Health, to regional health businesses, down to local health companies and down to the floor, both for nurses and doctors, and also for laundry service and office staff – to everyone. Everyone shall have an ownership relationship with the values of the Norwegian health care system. It has to go to the municipalities, out to the health and care services – all the way to the extreme. Values must be anchored both among managers and among employees. Values that say something about priorities, that say something about the development of services and how this should be in the future, must be firmly anchored. The fact that there is a culture of transparency where you build trust and have faith in professionalism, must be central to the value debate we're going to enter in terms of how we want the healthcare system, with the patient in focus. It is easy to evaluate and count what is involved in waiting lists, number of operations, queues, etc., but the Christian People's Party also believes that there is a need to develop some reporting systems that say something about quality, that say something about the patient's perspective, and that say something about the patient's course. Because we think it's hard to measure, we have to work on finding good measurement procedures to figure out what's going on in Health-Norway. We need to create a culture to report, and we need to create a culture to learn from the mistakes we make. The Christian People's Party believes, and I believe myself after working in Norwegian health care for 30 years, that the thinking about New Public Management is one of the reasons we're there. Everything has its market mechanism, everything has to have control procedures, and it is suggested that there must be strong loyalty. Those who are on the floor must sound the one who is over them, and the one who is over there must sound the one who is over there again. And then we lose focus – we lose focus on the patient, and we lose focus on the best quality compared to doing good patient treatment. That's why I want to say thank you to Toppe. I think we have to take and discuss the values and let them permeate what is going to be a good health care for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3012	I thank Kjersti Toppe for a good and important interpellation. It is a topic that deserves debate, because it is demanding for those who see themselves having to deal with something that is difficult. Some of this is a bit linked to political debate. It finds its form in action groups. I'm not going to go into that part that much. Several have been involved in management here. I agree that good leaders are important. But another part of what we see in health today is that it's not local management, and that's one of the challenges that I think we need to discuss. Because it will be difficult to alert or address critical questions if you do not have a leader to go into your immediate surroundings. It's a fundamental debate that we have to take seriously, how we're going to organise healthcare, and how far there's going to be between employees. In this context, it is also important to review the legal basis. I hope that the Council of State can take this debate into account and that there is a need to look at the Commission's 2003 proposal on freedom of speech. Another aspect of this is the work of the Labour Inspectorate that we have today – how the work for them has been done, and how we handle alerts today. The left has previously proposed strengthening the warning device we have. There's also something we should look at. When it comes to how we're going to go through this, I don't see the need for our own big message on that particular topic, but that we're going through and looking at the allocation of resources and strengthening the competences associated with it. Because it's a simple question to ask: how many alerts have we actually seen in the health sector in recent years? It's hard to point at them. When someone expresses concern, as we've heard here today, it's clear that there are likely to be some more alerts than those we've seen. Working to recognise alerts as something positive I think is important, and therefore how we take care of them as alerts, and do not focus negatively on them instead of addressing the obvious challenges that must lie at the root. There were some reflections on this topic, which are difficult, but there are also some practical solutions to this. At least we can start with what are obviously the simple conditions here: having local management and strengthening the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3030	Like many other speakers, I would like to commend the representative Kjersti Toppe for raising this interpellation. I think it's very important that there is a discussion at all in Stortinget, and there will be a lot of people who are concerned about it. Hopefully, there may also be encouragement for health professionals who wonder to what extent they have the right and not least the ability to say what they think about the development in Health Norway. That's why it's important in itself that we discuss this, and I hope that the Council of State will follow up in the best possible way. I also think that there are positive signals from the government parties. Of course, an employee has obligations in terms of loyalty to his employer, but it is also the case that in the debate on health care and health policy we need the professional input. Then it will not always be that reality is perceived in the same way on the floor of the individual hospital or hospital as it does in the management of a municipality or a health company. It's not least of great importance to us, whether it's the government or the Stortinget, to hear the voices of the employees. I think several of us know examples of the kind that the representative Toppe points to. I also want to add that I think we see a slightly worrying trend in some municipalities towards increased political control with whom, among other things. storage representatives shall meet. There's something that concerns me, and I think it should be a cross-political issue to do something about. Because it's clear that the meetings where we can get honest feedback will be fewer for both politicians and journalists if it's like who we meet, always have to be controlled by local government. Similarly, of course, health enterprises. I think it is also important to look at some structural reasons why this problem arises. Now it's hard to imagine that years have gotten worse, but at least I think there are some features of today's organization that there's reason to believe can reinforce such a problem. This applies not least – and I agree with the representative of Bollestad in – the corporate governance itself. It introduces and introduces more business thinking in health businesses, which can, of course, distort a philosophy that is more about health services as a service to the population than an enterprise to be defended for its own part. In addition, I would like to add that the interpellant was involved in working life is important. What kind of work we have in health is also crucial to what kind of power relationships we have between management and employees. There I think there are two things we should pay particular attention to. One is temporaryity, and the other is involuntary part-time. Both parts imply that workers are in a more vulnerable situation with regard to opportunities to speak from. A temporary employee will think about many times before criticising his or her management or job, as well as one who has a low position and wants a higher position. Therefore, there is reason to think that with some of the signals coming from the government regarding changes in working life, we are at risk of more workers coming into such a vulnerable situation. I therefore want to add one thing to the call to the Minister of Health, and that is that I am familiar with us today have no real overview of how many people are temporarily employed in the Norwegian health service. It would have been interesting to get a better overview of, for many reasons, but also as part of this discussion. So I would encourage the Minister of Health to address that, if he is to have a further review of this issue. Thank you again to Kjersti Toppe for taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3047	I would also like to thank all those who have spoken. Many have come with good recordings. I agree very much with what the representative Bollestad addresses, with New Public Management, and that there may be a contributing reason why there is a risk that a person loses focus on the treatment of patients – because one is very concerned about the reputation. I am also very much in agreement with the representative, Kjeseth, that local rental can mean a part, and also what the representative of the Light Hill picked up, this with fixed settings. There may be concrete things that are possible to do with, such as creating a better structure for openness and being able to express oneself as a health professional. I have been dealing with this with freedom of expression all the time since I came into politics, and most of all outside the health sector, because it is not just a problem in the health sector; it is also a problem in the public sector as a whole. I know about principals who are afraid to comment, about nursery officials who were not allowed to comment on missing kindergartens in the Bergen Centre, about the director of the cinema who would not comment on the hall of the municipal cinema, and the legendary, but quite true history of the park site in Bergen who would not dare tell Bergen's Official Journal what kind of end did he plant in the earth about the cottage. It's extremely dangerous when this applies to the health care system, because it can compromise patient safety. That is why I am very concerned about the lack of freedom of expression for health professionals. Under the Constitution, we also have an obligation to facilitate an open debate. I notice that the Council of State does not see the need to look at the regulations, that he has not heard that they are contrary to the Constitution. I still want to ask him to take these signals, because one thing is that when you read them, you don't see that they are directly contrary to the Constitution, but if you look at how they are practiced, they may be contrary to the Constitutional Law. I would also ask the government to take this into account if there is a need for a more legal review – it is not only for the health service, but also for others – against the freedom of expression of those adding, and that he is at all aware of this matter, for this is something that needs to be practised, and then both the Council of State and we are responsible for ensuring that it gets good practice out there. Once again, I would like to thank you for the debate. I am also pleased that the Council of State has given a positive signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3062	I too would like to thank you for a good and important debate. I think that a lot of the different aspects of this case have emerged, because there are all sorts of different aspects that need to be weighed against each other. I also think that the representative Micasen made a good impression in his post. One thing is, as the representative Toppe now had in his concluding statement, that legislation, regulations and guidelines can be in place, but it does not help if culture is not in place. And the culture is very dependent on management -- that the management in its daily function expresses that one looks positive at an open discussion and appreciates different views, and thus avoids a culture of fear. In this way, this debate is good, because it is those who are here, who are the top management of the Norwegian health system: the Stortinget and the Committee. The fact that a person takes this seriously and has a good discussion about it is important. I also want to try to follow this up. I've got a lot of recordings that I'm going to bring with me, of course. I will follow it up in my work and express that kind of attitude. So there's one question that the interpellant raised, that I haven't commented on, that I probably have a slightly different view, and that's that I perceive a very critical attitude towards communication advisors and work with reputation. I think it is important to remember that the Norwegian healthcare system is large and very complicated, and we have a much more demanding media reality now than you had before. A prerequisite for the transparency that the interpellant addresses is also that the health service is open to itself and open to the press. They must have the capacity to do so, but they must also have the skills. I think we have to recognise that the communication subject is a separate competence in today's complex reality. I don't think at all that all the parties that are represented on the Stortinget have recognized a long time ago when you look at who a herdsman in his own big group. And when one then has big businesses, with many thousands of employees, many thousands of patients and a complex media reality, one must simply give recognition that one takes the kind of questions seriously, and also that one has leaders who are open and accessible to the outside world. Because it is not possible to create a debate if there is only one page or one view that is represented, one must actually have the different views represented in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3077	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3091	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3098	This bill is the first one to submit a new committee for consideration, and I would like to thank the Committee for its speedy examination and good cooperation. The proposition deals with two different aspects affecting the distribution of funds from the profits of the gambling in Norwegian Typing. The proposition is a continuation of what was notified in connection with Reporting. St. 26 for 2011–2012, The Norwegian Sport Model, as regards the financing of Norwegian sport, and a strengthening of what is defined as cultural purposes outside the State budget. Today's rules give a distribution for sport of 47.9 pst. This rate is increased to 56 pst. in the proposal under consideration today. The share currently distributed for cultural purposes is 34.1 p.m., of which the Stortinget distributes 19.5 p.m., and the remainder, 14.6 p.m., is distributed by the government. The proposal proposes that 14.9 pst. is distributed by the government, while 11.1 pst. the revenue is entered in the State budget and allocated by the Stortinget. 18 pst. the profits are distributed to social and humanitarian organisations. No changes are proposed in this rate. A significant part of these 18 pst. during a transitional period, earmarked for those organisations that had large revenues from vending machines. In 2011, these organisations, 10H, signed an agreement with Norsk Typing on the operation of new nationwide lotteries through Norwegian Typing’s regular channels to secure revenue when the earmarked compensation fell away. In order not to challenge the exclusive right model, Norwegian Typing was granted permission to start up the game Nabolaget as part of its ordinary portfolio. The scheme in which 10H had earmarked funds ceases to exist and the Committee is aware that new regulations are now being consulted. The proposal proposes that the surplus from the game of Nagesellschaft should be distributed in an ordinary manner, but that, for a transitional period from 2014 to 2017, it should be added that the entire surplus should be allocated to social and humanitarian organisations and that 50 pst. 10H is allocated as a fixed proportion. The Committee has noted that there is considerable uncertainty as to the level of these revenues. The committee's position is unanimous, and I could have ended my post here, but the comments from the Right and the Advance Party are challenging. And let me be quite clear on what the Workers' Party means: we call about the Norwegian exclusive model and Norwegian Typing as a tool for the operation of gambling within a responsible framework. The majority of the Committee, through its comments, submits to challenge the Norwegian model of exclusive rights, and the comments of the majority parties contain a number of contradictions. The majority say that the market for gambling and non-addictive games should be seen in the context. But we do not have a market today, we have a model of exclusive rights, and we want to preserve it. We also have a system of comprehensive regulation of gambling and non-advanced lottery tickets. If we're going to have a market, the exclusive model has to go away. It is clear from several judges in the EU system. Nor can I establish a licensing system, which I record that the majority parties will investigate in the budget procedure, without being within the scope of EEA law. These frameworks are quite clear that there are non-economic conditions that are valid grounds for having regulation. The aim must therefore be crime prevention, accountability, consumer protection or the like — not increased income for culture and humanitarian organisations, as the majority say. This may indicate that the majority parties have gone astray in their arguments for challenging the exclusive model. The solution is not to create new systems but to call about the exclusive right model as it is established today, and to look for opportunities to develop this model. There have been investigations that show that over 70 pst. by the Norwegian population, today’s system is a good one. It shows that it is unnecessary to start new games to compete with Norwegian Typing. We must call about the exclusive right model that is currently the one in force in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3126	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good review and make some comments which hopefully show that we have not done our will. The changes now proposed in the Money Gambling Act are intended to strengthen sport and voluntary cultural life outside the State budget. Looking at Norwegian Tipping’s own forecasts, it seems that next year sports in Norway will receive the largest payment of tipping drugs ever. This is good news both for the greatest movement of civil society, sport, and for voluntary cultural life. The importance of income from gambling for ideal purposes is great, while we also need to pursue a policy that takes care of gambling addicts. Therefore, it is gratifying that Norwegian Typing still presents good numbers. But there are also clouds in the horizon. The fact that Norwegian Typing's surplus seems to be decreasing is a good reason to look at how we're going to provide similar incomes in the future. Norwegian Typing's surplus does not decrease because we Norwegians suddenly have an acute moderation appetite in terms of games. We have to assume that foreign players are increasingly supplying the total amount of money that we Norwegians choose to spend on gambling. There is no reason to believe that this goes beyond itself, and it is therefore important to look at what opportunities we have to ensure that ideal actors also in the years to come have an equal amount of cake to share. The Government wants to address the issue of licensing arrangements for foreign gambling companies to see if it is possible to combine social policy considerations and increase total revenues for voluntary activities within the framework of the EEA Agreement. Such waste concepts shall be approved and the decision shall be taken by the Lottery Authority. Here, we're also going to distinguish between addictive gambling and non-addictive lottery icons. The government will support the creation of several non-addictive lottery icon septes that can strengthen volunteering, provided that they do not challenge the EU exemption we have received for our gambling monopoly. The major humanitarian organisations shall be given priority by the introduction of such concepts. Now, when Norsk Tipping establishes the game concept of Nabolaget, we don't know how much new money this will contribute to humanitarian organisations, but it is in any case important to stress that this law proposes that ten humanitarian organisations, the so-called 10H, receive part of the profits during a transitional period set at four years. A large number of organisations outside 10H have criticised this distribution and 10H should probably focus on a greater level of non-discrimination after the transition period. We also know that other actors under the previous government have tried to start similar concepts, and where the Lottery Authority has been positive. Currently, such concepts have been halted by over-management from the Ministry, but it is therefore Right’s policy that this should lie with supervision in the future. We also need to be careful that emergency services end up in a situation where their important, sometimes vital, work is not to be commended to the Norwegian people. The Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid and the rescue and preparedness work of the Rescue Company should be financed by other means. In line with public procurement of health and social services from the non-profit and private sectors, it is also necessary to consider whether similar agreements should be used for emergency and rescue work. It is more natural for the public to buy these services than to live in budgetary uncertainty related to the submission of enough tipping coupons. In addition to making up for the money that disappears to foreign players, we must also try to make the cake bigger, and that is possible. These are good examples from abroad, for example: has contributed over 210 million to the Swedish Postcode Lottery's cultural foundation in two years. Swedish krona for different cultural purposes. The postcode lottery is the third largest philanthropic activity in the world and contributes large revenues for good by means of a responsible lottery. Such and similar projects may be one of the ways of curbing future losses in profits for distribution for non-profit purposes. I don't think we can wait on old models to meet the challenges of the future. The common thing for all of us is that we want to contribute to that volunteer's getting good conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3147	The Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-Government will pursue a policy that will safeguard and take into account gambling addicts and ensure that revenues from gambling in Norway will serve as ideal targets. This government will also discuss questions about a licensing system, which the speaker before me was in, to capture foreign companies that are trading for billions – this to see whether, in combination with a social policy, it is possible to increase the total income of volunteering and sport. Imagine if we could get more money for the volunteering that we have in Norway and that more and more people become dependent on. We will also allow what we call skill games with poker, which has an amount limit that is not addictive, and that decisions on new game concepts are to be taken by the Lottery Authority. Why do we want to do that? We believe that the Lottery Authority is professional and has a competence for what they are doing. We have seen that there have been applications in the Ministry of Culture that have not been dealt with, but that we want a professional assessment of. This government will distinguish between addictive gambling and non-addictive game concepts, i.e. a skill game, and will support the creation of several non-addictive lottery icons that can strengthen volunteering and sport in Norway. The major humanitarian organisations shall be given priority, where the Neighbourhood has received its approval and shall be operated by Norwegian Typing with a name of 10H. There you have Norway's Red Cross, the Rescue Company, the Handicap Association, Redd Barna, Norwegian People's Aid etc. It is clear that this money goes for important purposes, and that every penny we can collect, which is not played abroad, will benefit volunteering and humanitarian organisations. We know that foreign gaming companies are trading for between 5 and 7 billion. kr. None of this is generated back to Norwegian voluntarism. There is no disagreement about the distribution of the profits of Norwegian Typing, there is a great deal of consensus in the committee. But the disagreement lies in capturing these foreign gaming companies. In Denmark, a licensing system was introduced in which all are winners – as I see it. Danish Games, the option for Norwegian Typing, has increased. More money has been given from foreign companies that have gone back to organisations — to volunteering and sport. We can't let go, and as a government that wants to look forward, how can we prevent all this money from going out of the country without it generating anything back to volunteering and sport? That's where we commit ourselves to doing something.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3164	I have noticed that a joint family and cultural committee supports the proposed legislation that has been promoted. The changes will contribute important funds to sport, culture and volunteering. The bill implements changes to the key adopted by Stortinget in the State budget for 2014. The proposal will strengthen the share of sport and the voluntary cultural life in the key and phase-in changes foreseen in the Sports Communication. According to the latest forecasts from Norwegian Typing, we expect that the excess over the key will be slightly less in 2014 than in 2013. Despite this, the sport will receive approx. $180 million. kr more than this year, just because we're changing the key. It is a good economic boost for sport. If Norwegian Typing's forecasts become valid, the sport will receive a total of 1.82 billion. kr above the key in 2014. This is more than in any other year. The main reason for changing the key is the need to strengthen the grant for the construction and rehabilitation of sports facilities in municipalities. Sports facilities are built as a sprawling layer between sport, municipalities and the state through the games. Toys represent an important sub-financing for the construction of sports facilities, and one of the success factors is that they generate significant resources from the voluntary sector, but also from the municipalities. However, the financial framework for sport in recent years has created an increasing gap between local plant needs and the ability of the State to meet them through the means of gambling. The increased share for sport purposes shall therefore provide room for increasing the grant rates for priority types of installations. It shall also reduce the waiting time for the receipt of games. The legislative proposal also provides an opportunity for the proceeds of Norwegian Tipping’s planned new games, the Nabolaget, to be paid to some social and humanitarian organisations during a transitional period. The government of Stoltenberg started a conversion process to allocate Norwegian Typing's surplus among these organisations. The distribution of revenue from the game The Neighbourhood is an element of this process. I have noticed that the Committee supports a proposal that 10H should receive half of the surplus from the Subsidiary during a transitional period. The government has not yet taken a decision on how we want to proceed with the conversion process. The voluntary sector is important to the government, and we will facilitate the widest possible participation in voluntary activities. We consider different measures to strengthen voluntary activities, including: we will review the economic framework conditions for the sector and, of course, look at the possibilities of income. A shift in the distribution of Norwegian Tipping's profits will give more organisations access to free resources that will facilitate voluntary efforts. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee ends up on the proposal that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3188	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3191	There has been a lot of talk about both the background of this case and the positions of the various parties, so I will not extend the debate much beyond noticing that it is interesting to note that all those who have been up from the Right and the Advance Party have not at all raised the concern that Norwegian sport has expressed in this matter. What we are really discussing is the Norwegian model of exclusive rights, which ensures that we not only have good revenues for Norwegian voluntarity and Norwegian sport, but also that it does so within a responsible framework. I think you're jumping a little too smoothly. In the pursuit of new games and revenues, there are many good ideas for new game concepts that can generate new revenues. The question is: do we want them to be established within the exclusive right model, or do we want us to cancel this model and establish these games outside? It's completely possible to do both. The question is probably what ideological point of view you have as an invading sport. We have had examples of games that Norsk Typing himself has tried to develop, which have been stopped, among other things. because of this policy of accountability. But we have also had examples of games that have been planned outside Norwegian Typing, which was initiated by Norwegian Typing through the exclusive right model. So it's completely possible to do this either outside or inside. The question is therefore: is it an objective for the government to abolish the exclusive right model and thus also limit our ability to pursue a responsible gambling policy in Norway? Is that the ideological project the government is really after, and then you wrap it into a fine glossy paper and say it's about increasing the income of Norwegian sport? We see, for example: that the postcode lottery in Sweden has given 210 million. Swedish krona in income. It's not much, all the time we know that Sweden has twice as many inhabitants as Norway, and all the time we know that only the grass root ratio in one year triggered 300 million. kr to the local teams and associations. What this really boils down to is the view we have of a responsible game policy, and I am afraid that the government, with its grip and what they warn about in this matter, will go away from a principle that has been fundamental in Norwegian policy for many years, and that has been fundamental to Norwegian sport – namely that we should have a game policy that is about generating revenue for volunteering, but that it should be done within a sound framework. You leave it now, and I think it's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3208	As far as the position itself is concerned, it is said that this is an overall committee behind it. We want these 10H organisations to keep this system for some time to come to create predictability, even though in many ways we recognize that with regard to the new game of the Nabolaget, it is uncertain how much money it will bring to these organisations. We don't know, but we'll see about that. But where we separate layers with the Right Party and the Advance Party, in the special note they have, where they call for the introduction of new games. I think Ib Thomsen's representative would point to what is one of the challenges, namely that there is a desire to open up new licences to meet the international gaming market. He also mentions that the government wants to facilitate the legalisation of poker with money gains in Norway. I cannot understand how to preserve the Norwegian exclusive model while opening up new licences to the foreign gaming market and introducing a number of new games. For the Christian People's Party, prevention of gambling addiction is important. It is precisely where the Norwegian model of exclusive rights comes in as a good measure to prevent more people from becoming addicted to games and almost playing from the farm and land. This is about being responsible for this. The proposals that I think the representative Ib Thomsen is addressing may well lead to the total disappearance of the prevention aspect. As far as gambling addiction is concerned, it is more to repair when the damage is first done. It is a policy of the Christian People's Party that does not want to support, as we want to pursue a responsible policy in this area, where the model of exclusive rights is an important measure. With that I have expressed the Christian People's Party's position on this matter. We support the setting, but we're calling about the exclusive model.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3219	There was just a need for a little clarification, since Grande called and did not get what I said in my post – and which I perceive as uniform from the government parties: ‘The government will support the creation of several non-addictive lottery icon septes that can strengthen voluntary activities, provided that they do not challenge the EU exemption we have received for our gambling monopoly.’ I guess this is a pretty clear sentence and a clear answer. So that's the basis, and we'll also see how you can get what's now going out of the country without any debriefing. I thought everyone would be watching that. There is no part of the decision in this case, but we will probably get back to these matters many times in future debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3230	I have to comment on the concern of the majority parties for Norwegian sport. Thus, in the comments made by the majority parties in this case, Norwegian sport is not mentioned at all; it is ‘culture and humanitarian organisations’ that should be given priority when considering how to establish several non-advanced lotteries that do not challenge the exclusive right model. And I just repeat what I said: you can't have a monopoly model, and in addition you have a licensing system next to it – then there's no exclusive model anymore, then there's no monopoly. Then we opened up something that is quite different from what we have in the exclusive right model, which I believe is important that we call about. It contributes to good sources of income for those who are now part of the exclusive right model, and it helped to ensure that we have now managed to overcome gambling addiction in a way that has not been achieved by many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3235	The representative Svein Harberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3238	I just have a clarification that I think is most necessary. I really thought it was that when we talk about culture, we talk about the extended concept of culture. It is used as a name for the Committee and deals with sport, and it is used in many contexts and deals with sport. We talk about the whole concept when it is called ‘culture and humanitarian organisations’. Then at least that misunderstanding is solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3245	That is when the debate is on case No. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3260	Only speeches and 30 minutes to bolt on – I had never dreamed that I would experience that! But I'm going to try to show respect for the Storting and that it's late in the evening, but I feel the need to say some words in relation to the proposition we're dealing with here today. Then I want to take on board the political platform of the Solberg government, where I think there are many fine words – about a safe and flexible labour market, about well-functioning tripartite cooperation and about so-called instinctive systems. The case we are dealing with today is one of several examples of what is hiding behind the fine words, is, in fact, an attack on employee rights and another step towards a tougher labour market for employees. It is a well-known fact that the Right has been visiting its political spheres in Sweden, where the Moderates have had great success in presenting themselves as the new ‘labour party’. In Norway, it is primarily the Progress Party that has adorned itself with this term, and they have thus not yet entered the government until they start a practice that shows that they are the opposite. In this case, the government submits proposals for cuts in the State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy. Both the length of the period covered by the pay guarantee and the right to be paid outstanding holiday pay must be cut. Eighty-six million. kr is small on a government budget, but a lot for them. A place between 8000 and 10000 people will lose income. The right said nothing about these plans before the election, but now it's coming. The Progress Party has a program formulation in which they write that ‘flexible arrangements linked to the system of leave, the pay guarantee scheme and some other day-payment schemes would be natural, so as to adapt the arrangements to the labour market situation’. But you have to be pretty good at text analysis to understand that this means cutting people's rights. What is the situation in the labour market in this case – expect an increase in unemployment next year and an increase in the number of bankruptcies? And then the answer should be the opposite! The working party will maintain the remuneration guarantee scheme as it is. The same applies to the legislation on permitting, where new 82 million are to be cut. kr. When the Labour and Social Committee had a budget consultation for 2014, there was one feedback that came unisonably from both employers and employees: do not touch the payroll scheme during leave! The workers were anxious about their jobs. The employer’s side confirmed that concern – an extension of the employer’s pay obligation would lead to terminations and loss of key competences. Unlike the fine words of a well-functioning tripartite collaboration, the government parties and the bulk of the population choose to ignore the warnings. Again, fine words and confounding terms are used. What the social partners call job and income uncertainty, and loss of competence, is what the government and the majority call ‘unemployment’ and ‘increased labour market flexibility’. This uncertainty must therefore serve as an additional incentive for workers to move quickly into new work. According to the foreign dictionary, ‘insitation’ means something positive — an incentive to make an extra effort. In the view of the Workers' Party, whipping is not such a positive stimulus. The government also says that part of the purpose of this case is to contribute to less bureaucracy. In the view of the Workers' Party, the majority should also seek simplifications in areas that do not affect the wallet of workers in exposed establishments. The only point of light in this case is that the Left and Christian People's Party, through the budgetary negotiations, managed to prevent the specific rules applicable to a vulnerable fishing industry from being changed. It can be seen as a progress, even though we in the Workers' Party have not been accustomed to defining the status quo as a progress. And it won't stop there. Lonely dependants are also subject to review. With new rules, the government and the majority cut the transitional aid for the lone-leaver by DKK 9 500 compared to the proposal from Stoltenberg II. And $800 a month is a lot for those who don't have much already. The Workers' Party maintains our own proposal in this matter together with the SV and the Zenterpartiet. And finally, the proposal to save 37 million. If you want to double the de minimis limit for health reimbursements to NOK 200, you will in practice find an increase in self-interest, which we are opposed to. So I'm addressing the minority proposal. The parts of the setting like the Right, the Advance Party and the Left stand alone, we're going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3293	Then the representative Lise Christoffersen mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3296	When there was no debate on this issue today, it was because one thought the debate was taken on Friday, during the budget debate with the Labour and Social Committee. But when the Labour Party still chooses to take the word again today, I also want to add some comments to this. Only in the case of permitting: the number of permitations in Norway is rapidly declining, and it has persisted to be low for quite a long time. Six months ago, the red-green government doubled the number of days during the employer’s period to ten days. It has also been common for the Storting — in the context of discussions that have been around layoffs — to look at economic trends. This has also been the case, because the number of permitations is relatively low and, to a large extent, not alarmingly high. And then the option for very many of those who are on leave is like a job, a safe job – rather than maybe continuing in an uncertain job. Then we have said that incentivising to reduce the employer's period from 30 weeks to 26 weeks is not an unreasonable approach. It is also about finding the right balance point for the country to take on the risks and responsibilities of enterprises rather than the employer himself. In the case of bankruptcy, everyone who works in a company that goes bankrupt is today guaranteed full pay until the date of the bankruptcy. So it will continue to be after today as well. In addition, this scheme will pay for up to one month after the bankruptcy, before you go to normal unemployment benefits, if you don't have a job. The only difference is that if you had previously lost your job on 4 November in one company, you were paid full pay for the rest of November and for the whole of December, while in another company you could lose your job, for example. November 29th and get two to three days' pay, as well as the whole of the next month. It was arbitrary how it went. This provides a level playing field, and this provides a simpler procedure for those who are in bankruptcy. As far as changes in holiday pay are concerned, they are more in line with the provisions of the holiday law. Today, the legislation is so that you can get holiday pay for up to 24 months, but we know that the holiday should be completed in practice by the following year, so that it has minimal consequences. With regard to the changes made by the government with the one-off benefit, there was a total increase asking for changes to make it more workline-related. One simply had to pay taxes, and thus the one-time benefit was adjusted accordingly, so that the amount would be equal. But we saw that the red-green government increased the transitional benefit for a number of users, which was contrary to the line of work, which at least this government wants to introduce. Another change we do, with which the Workers' Party did not want to do anything, is that we simply reduce the abbreviation – as the Red-Greens did – if any of these get a job. It also helps to stimulate the working line. I would also like to make it clear that none of those who are currently receiving transitional benefits are covered by these changes. They apply to new recipients. All in all, I think that we, the government parties and the majority of the population, have a good proposal, which we naturally put behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3317	Then it looks like the rehearsal exercise is over. No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3333	We hope that the committee is aware of its responsibilities, as there is no debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3336	The nutrition committee is, to a very high degree, conscious in all its contexts. I will briefly inform you about what the issue is: it is a change in the Marine Resource Act, away from financing resource research at research quotas, and rather moving to a direct charge levied on first-hand sales. The Committee identifies research as an important prerequisite for good fisheries management. The conversion of the law, in order to obtain more predictable funding, sees the committee as positive. The addition of a funding model that provides rationalisation gains in the form of smaller administrations and the use of a first-hand turnover tax model for fish already incorporated also leads to clear simplification gains in the Committee's view. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3349	I am very pleased with what I expect to be the result: a unanimous increase is in favour of this improvement. The system that the rich Norway has had for several years is that we have paid for research by giving fish to the fishing boats. Nearly 30000 tonnes per year have been used. That's a pretty big proportion. We haven't really used what we have most of, money, and we get a system now, after the vote tonight, which is much better, as the previous representative said. I'm very pleased with that. What remains is that the 2014 research quota will only go for physical research and educational purposes. To next year we have to be careful how we do it. That's about. 19 training institutions in Norway receiving allowances for teaching. Those quotas are so small that for example. Finnmark County's boat, which today is teaching young people to become fishermen, has a quota of 1,500 kg of cabins for the whole year. Young people may risk getting so much fish in one night that the quota gets all year round. It's not good for the future. In addition, the cod quota is only 7500 kg. When we did the last tail with my boat last year, we got 17 tons in one hall, and we did that in two hours. This is not the future of our young people and their teaching. That's the new challenge, and I expect us to talk more about it in this room, and the government will look at how we're going to do it with the teaching quota for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3362	The law will suffice through the Greatness one more time, and then to the King for punishment, before it is brought to life. But if the next debate is going to be the same, it can go fast. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3378	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3392	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e3398	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e9562	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e9572	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12376	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12389	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12452	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12462	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12471	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: Section 15-6 eighth paragraph is repealed. The current ninth term will be a new eighth term.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12672	The Committee shall be called upon to give its opinion on the position of I, II, IV, § 15-7, § 15-9 and § 22-19 and V, paragraphs 1, 2 and 4. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12687	There is a vote on the position of the Committee to III, Section IV, Section 2-11, new third paragraph and Section V, paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12697	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12708	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12759	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12769	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12881	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12891	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12933	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12943	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-09.ana.ud1082e12955	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
