ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e94	The representatives of Are Health, Torgeir Mikalsen, Ingalill Olsen, Heidi Sørensen, Eirin Sund, Øyvind Waksdal, Erling Sande and Per Arne Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of Oslo, Lotte Grepp Knutsen, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Lars Egeland, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Ivar Kristiansen, Sverre Myrli and Tore Nordtun on leave from 2 April to 4 April – all to take part in the parliamentary assembly of NATO to Marrakech from the representative Morten Höglund on parental leave from 2 April to 14 May and from 16 May to 30 May from the representative of Thomas Breen on parental leave from 2 April to 21 June; These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Akershus County, Tone Liljeroth, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Morten Højlund. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Laila Thorsen, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Tore Nordtun, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund and Tom Staahle For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde For the Nordic counties: Jonni Helge Solsvik and Kari Storstrand For Rogaland County: Siv-Len Beach Forest For the Westfold province: Heidi M.T. _Running Mode
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e203	Anita Orlund, Tom Staahle, Thor Lillehovde, Jonni Helge Solsvik, Kari Storstrand, Siv-Len Strandskog and Heidi M. T. Runningen are present and will take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e211	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e214	I am delighted, on behalf of the representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Siv Jensen and myself, to present a proposal for a representative on a national medical action plan to ensure the quality, competence and accessibility of users.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e219	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e222	On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Hans Olav Syversen, Dagrun Eriksen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to amend the car charges in order to ensure more environmentally friendly and safe cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e227	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e243	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e257	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e271	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e285	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e294	The matter we are going to deal with now, in my view, is a very positive matter. The Ministry has proposed that all large enterprises under the Accounting Act should provide an annual statement of what they do to integrate the interests of human rights, workers’ rights and social conditions, the external environment and the fight against corruption in their business strategies, in their day-to-day operations and in relation to their stakeholders in the home and abroad – in short, what they do to discharge their social responsibility in addition to making money. Enterprises that do not have their own social responsibility policies are now also required to disclose this. The legislative proposal is based on a report by a working group appointed by the Ministry of Finance to investigate social responsibility reporting requirements. This was a work that was started as a follow-up to Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 10 for 2008-2009, on corporate social responsibility in a global economy. The obligation to report social responsibility is imposed on undertakings that are large in relation to the definitions of the Accounting Act. However, the aim must be that all companies in Norway find it positive to report on their social responsibility and what steps they are taking in the communities in which they operate, both in this country and not least in a global perspective. Many consumers today are asking how different companies take overall social responsibility. The fact that the business not only takes into account profitable value creation, but also the responsibility of the company beyond this means something when we as consumers are going to buy goods and services. We, as magnification and authorities, should otherwise seek ethical guidance and how the company manages its social responsibility. There are currently no legal instruments that can contribute to increasing awareness of that type of issue. I therefore believe that a reporting obligation on social responsibility that we are now legislating will contribute to a greater awareness of the corporate social responsibility. This will, of course, lead to increased pressure on the companies from the outside world, and will, after what we have experience with from, among other things. Denmark, just leading to increased awareness of both leaders and employees about ethical issues and the corporate social responsibility. Positive feedback from consumers as well as from the environment is likely to be received from the companies that follow this through their managers. In an open global economy, we depend on transparency and dialogue on ethical guidelines and on social responsibility. Without that, we can't be sure that companies that produce goods we buy, respect human rights and employee rights, or that they take the necessary account of the external environment. What we are adopting today is also no legislative requirement for corporate social responsibility. However, there is a reporting requirement that will certainly help businesses to build up knowledge of the interactions between the activities they operate and the communities in which they operate. Not least, it will be useful for those companies that are perceived to be in favour of accepted standards and standards for the performance of activities in the social sphere. Because although the vast majority of companies in Norway today are aware of their responsibilities — we agree — there are several who need an extra puff to put these kinds of questions on the agenda. The Accounting Act contributes to the best possible information to various stakeholders on an entity's financial position, risk exposure, profit or loss and other aspects of its business. There is a tendency for information to be sought in addition to financial information. Users of such information are also investors and creditors. For example, the Social Security Fund, which is our sole shareholder, shows. to ensure that the proposals of the working group are consistent with the information in which the fund requests from companies in which it invests. We have to assume that the People's Security Fund is not alone in seeking that kind of information. Enterprises that report their social responsibility through their annual report will also have an advantage in an investor context. It provides confidence to have a fully-fledged view of its social responsibility. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal for amendments to the Accounting Act and some other laws — reporting on social responsibility, etc. There is also a minority view in the matter, which I assume will be presented. With this I present the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e311	The Executive Board considers that annual accounts and annual reports are primarily intended to show the economic development and financial position of the companies and are intended to provide accurate financial information about the company. I would therefore like to warn against reporting requirements that water out this purpose. I would also like to stress that there is and must be a fundamental difference between the social responsibility of business and government. The authorities and politicians are responsible to the voters, while the companies, as long as they operate within a legal framework, are initially responsible to shareholders, customers and business relations. The social responsibility of the economy is primarily to make the best possible use of business: to contribute to value creation and economic growth by selling their products on the free, open market. This creates jobs and wealth for business. I would therefore like to distance myself from a socialist understanding of corporate social responsibility on the basis of which capitalism and globalisation do not serve society. Social responsibility as discussed both in the notification and in the proposal is consideration of what undertakings adopt and standards they lay down and comply with in addition to those laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. I noticed that the government in the proposition calculates that many Norwegian companies are already doing very well. As of 2010, listed companies are already required to explain any ‘ethics and social responsibility guidelines’. The government suggests in the proposition that the experience from Denmark suggests that up to 75 pst. of the 450 enterprises that will be covered by this legislative proposal, already deal with social responsibility. This suggests that it would be better to work with general motivational measures and information against enterprises that have not yet started than to introduce another law. Industry organisations are already well in the process of informing and raising the awareness of businesses. In St.meld. No 10 for 2008-2009, the government has listed a number of measures already under way. It is a good alternative to law enforcement to follow up and stimulate these further. The challenge is not to get Norwegian companies to take social responsibility seriously, but how best to stimulate them to be targeted, developing and useful to businesses. Legal requirements for reporting can then work more against their purpose than stimulating further focus. A law creates a minimum standard and pushes businesses into a particular system, but it does not stimulate them to go any further or to become more conscious. The government's own estimates of expenditure illustrate this dilemma. The start-up costs are estimated by the government to be between 860000 and 6,1 million. kr for the individual enterprise, while the current annual costs for the enterprises are estimated at approximately. NOK 7 000 to NOK 35000. I see these estimates as an expression of a very static consideration by the government of the challenge. Should social responsibility really become an integral part of an enterprise's business, it is a prerequisite for the board to establish the company's value base and develop guidelines for ethics and social responsibility accordingly. Follow-up procedures must be established at the same time so that the company ensures that they are complied with. In that case, current expenditure will be higher than the Ministry's estimate. When so many companies are already doing this work and are likely to incur far greater costs than the government assumes according to its own business interests, lawmaking should not be a tool to be used. I am calling for a thorough cost-benefit analysis of the bill. That this is complicated and costly is illustrated by the detailed nature of the government's proposal and, according to the NHO's letter to the committee, may lead to a total of 36 points being reported. In such a light, the government's calculation of the current costs of the companies appears to be a serious under-assessment if the reporting is to become more than a pro-forma case for the company and the board of directors. There is also a high risk that companies will become more concerned with reporting against the government’s proposed reporting points than with continuous monitoring and adapting societal responsibility to new challenges posed by societal development. The Progress Party therefore considers it unnecessary to legislate on social responsibility reporting and to oppose the proposals of the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e328	We in the Right are also opposed to legal requirements for reporting on social responsibility. I'm going to come up with a few more points than the Chairman of the Advance Party was at the forefront. But I would like to make it clear that there is no disagreement about the importance of focusing on social responsibility. I think every government in a larger company in Norway today has a very big focus on social responsibility. This is due to the fact that there is quite a lot of attention in the media about the framework under which businesses operate and that they operate in a proper way from a Norwegian social perspective. It is obvious that all major companies will operate according to legal legal frameworks in all the countries they operate, but what we are now discussing is a responsibility that goes far beyond the legal responsibility around. We've seen media lookups, we've seen focus in Norway, which can be quite harmful to the company's profile if you let it evolve. So I think it's a matter of course in any board room that you're busy positioning the company within the framework and the society you're operating in, and then social responsibility is going to become even more important. What we're discussing is whether one achieves the goal best by raising awareness, which is, of course, in progress. There are a lot of guidelines, there are developed standards for how larger Norwegian companies will operate in a social responsibility, and a lot of companies are already doing it. We have great concerns about introducing it as a legal requirement. The question is, How do we achieve our goal best? Either by the voluntary initiatives and initiatives already taken by organisations-Norway, Børsen, yes, a number of organisations, or by introducing a law. Then the case rapporteur said that a legal instrument was now in place. You get it? There is no legal requirement on what companies are going to do. It is a legal requirement to report. It might as well just be a pro formas, that you sit at board meetings and sign that you've taken it and that responsibility, but you haven't thought it through. When you look at the government's estimate for economic consequences, you might get the impression that that's the level of ambition. Then I think most companies already have far higher ambitions than the government has in this bill. Then you refer to the experience from Denmark, but it is so vague that you write that they ‘may indicate that the similar reporting requirement that has motivated more companies’. So they say that it might indicate that it has motivated them. In Denmark it was also established that 75 pst. by enterprises, before the legal requirement, and not having gone into and analysed the extent to which these companies have weakened their focus on social responsibility after getting a law that everyone deals with without thinking about it in particular. Here we have some major concerns, and we are calling for a cost-benefit analysis that puts cost use in perspective. I would like to thank you for a contribution to possible simplification when the bourgeois government comes up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e341	Prop. 48 L for 2012–2013 deals with two issues related to accounting law: the establishment of obligations to report on social responsibility for large companies and the cancellation of obligations to draw up consolidated accounts for certain companies. I'm not going to say that there's a balance between burdens and a lot of business, but this thing works both ways. The proposal to introduce an obligation for large businesses to report on what the enterprise does to integrate the concerns of human rights, labour rights and social conditions, the external environment and the fight against corruption is not a new issue for the Storting. Stortinget treats in 2009 St.meld. No 10 for 2008-2009 on corporate social responsibility in a global economy. In the position of a unanimous committee at that time, the government with that message "contributes to creating important debate on and putting the necessary focus on corporate social responsibility in an increasingly global economy". Furthermore, the Committee considers it positive that ‘businesses’ behaviour is now increasingly subject to critical media and civil society searchlights’. All – with the exception of the Progress Party – concluded that it was ‘positive and necessary to step up the state involvement of corporate social responsibility’. At the Stockholm Summit in 2009, the majority, i.e. all without the Right Party and the Progress Party, an effort to extend the reporting obligation of enterprises in accounting laws to include social responsibility. The same plurality – The Labour Party, SV, the Christian People’s Party, the Left and the Centre – is now behind the bill on social responsibility reporting for larger enterprises. As far as I can see, that's the bill we're going to take a decision on today, well in line with the desire of Stortinget's plurality in 2009. So the job is done in relation to the order. In the founding to reserve itself against the changes in accounting law, the Right and the Progress Party say that many Norwegian companies are already complying with the standards of social responsibility that are now being proposed. The proposition also refers to this with its reference to the fact that experience from Denmark suggests that up to 75 pst. out of the 450 enterprises covered by the bill, work on social responsibility. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe this shows that the law is unnecessary, and that it would be better to work with general motivational measures and information up against the companies that have not yet started. I don't share that view. I don't share a view that lawmaking of social responsibility can work against its purpose. Once that's done, laws and rules will help you to set a standard for which you have to align. After all, when a significant part of the big business we're talking about here is not committed to developing attitudes and criteria for social responsibility, it's an expression that the community has to set some general requirements that everyone is going to follow. I think the Stortinget follows its own 2009 comments in a good way when today we join the government's proposal to introduce social responsibility reporting in accounting laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e352	The Christian People's Party supports the position that exists, and is therefore part of the majority in this case. Corporate social responsibility has become a more and more topical issue, and I think it is not in any way unnatural for the larger companies that this is part of what they tell the outside world about. I think it will – even if you can discuss the extent of it – increase awareness, and it will happen at a level where it might need to be increased, at the board level. I really think it's quite enjoyable to read from the proposition: «Responsibility of the board is also important to counteract the practice of making the statement of social responsibility a document drawn up by the information department of the company and with little foundation in the actual activities of the company. The Ministry takes the view that the reporting obligation is imposed on the Board of Directors and proposes that this be clarified in Sections 3 to 5 of the Accounting Act.» There are obviously some people here who have good experience in how some reports actually happen. It is not long since we had a big case in Norwegian media after the Supreme Court finally decided the so-called Røeggen case. Who knows about what we are discussing today, that of providing some reporting requirements for social responsibility, might have contributed to a slightly greater awareness in some of our financial industries as well. I am aware that there will be some extra work, but here I believe it is balanced so that the importance of what is being reported has to be tolerated by the larger companies. As the previous speaker pointed out, there are also proposals in this proposition to do something that is a simplification for some companies, even though it is also for the larger companies. We support the vote, and then the representative Gundersen will be able to define which civil governments are going to do what.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e370	Only a short comment and explanation of vote from the Left side: In this case, there are two conflicting considerations that meet each other. One is the need to limit the reporting obligations of enterprises. New reporting requirements must have a purpose in addition to being “good to have”. The second is that Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian businesses have a social responsibility that needs to be taken seriously. The proposal to legislate an obligation to report that this is actually being done can and should help Norwegian businesses to become more aware. The left believes that companies have a separate responsibility to influence the society they're part of, in a positive direction. This is usually also in their commercial interest, as consumers, investors and employees are increasingly focusing on just social responsibility. The left is therefore of the opinion that, overall, it will be a plus for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian companies that there is a legal obligation to report on social responsibility. Several have been involved in Denmark, and the experience from Denmark shows that a similar reporting requirement has motivated several companies to work more actively with social responsibility. The interesting thing about Denmark in this context is that, in parallel with introducing a new reporting requirement, they have significantly reduced the overall reporting requirements of industry. This should also be possible in Norway. The left vote against this background of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e383	This is an important thing, because it is primarily about what can be called reputation building in multinational companies. If we look at some of the issues that are major in the global context, such as climate, development, democratic construction and human rights, these are areas that affect individual countries, but also to a very large extent companies that operate in individual countries. We have just dealt without discussion with three issues about tax agreements – three important issues that stem from corporate social responsibility, not contributing to tax evasion, but having transparency about transactions in and out of countries. We will discuss country-to-country reporting later in the autumn, so in the field by area, these are the most relevant issues in both the national and international debate. So you can always discuss whether to use the law to do such things. It is good that many companies already do so today, taking into account their own reputation, but experience shows that by legislating this in the Accounting Act, more transparency is gained on these issues, and an increased public search for the importance of this to individual companies. Later in the spring, Stortinget also has the opportunity to discuss the annual report for the State pension fund abroad for 2012. An important part of the debate on the State pension fund abroad is ethics – the functioning of the Ethics Council, resources, but also responsible investments. As a large investor in many international companies, we see how important it is that there is openness in companies about human rights issues and about reporting on social responsibility. I am pleased that a very broad majority in the Grand Duchy supports the government's proposal. As the representative of Meltveit Kleppa said, we have done what we were asked for in the previous round, and presented this bill. I think that for the companies themselves, it is important that we both through the work we are doing today, and the work we are going to do in the future, the outside world shows that we care about and work on the kind of issues that concern social responsibility. Over time, I am quite certain that it will be important for companies themselves to be able to make visible to investors, countries, international organisations and NGOs, that these are the questions we are concerned with. I am convinced that even in a larger context, this could actually be seen as a competitive advantage for those companies that really put their weight behind and press this question. I welcome the agreement that this proposal has reached in Stortinget. And, as a little visit to the representative, Gundersen: I'm not sure how easy it will be to change the law on this point if – against assumption – it would be a different majority in the Stortinget than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e401	Most companies debate their social responsibility in the boardrooms. They do that voluntarily without a law imposing it on them, because it benefits the businesses themselves. A large part of the contribution to the Minister of Finance just went to the fact that the companies did this themselves because it benefited them. The installation to the Council of State Johnsen was also marked by a clear lack of faith in the fact that the companies themselves are able to see the benefit of social responsibility reporting for each enterprise, and therefore they want to be required to do so. My question is, why do you want a law order? Why is it considered necessary when businesses themselves do this — rather than motivate them to actually carry out social responsibility, and not just report it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e411	It is good for companies to work on things on a voluntary basis, both in this and in other areas, but my experience is that legislating an important step in the reporting of social responsibility contributes to a wider discussion on the issue. It contributes to greater transparency on these issues, and it also contributes to increased public search for social responsibility. So I think this is a necessary and important act, both for the companies that are covered by it, and for the ongoing social debate. That is the main reason why we are doing this, also with reference to the 2009 Stortinget report on the global economy. So that's the simple reason: greater transparency, greater public searchlight and greater public interest in these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e418	Like the previous replicator, I notice that the Council of State really talks a lot based on the fact that this is for the company's own good. We agree on that, and I think the vast majority of companies have already understood it. SPU is a good example of how larger investors are very concerned about keeping their reputation, as the Council of State spoke about. The law we are now dealing with is no tighter than that it says that companies should be able to choose whether and to what extent social responsibility is to be worked on. So if companies find that the benefit is much less than the cost, they can't do that. So I still don't fully understand what you want to achieve with law enforcement versus just working with the motivation outside of companies, which is already high.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e425	There is a difference in substance, and the representative Syversen was involved in this in his statement: it is about the relationship between law enforcement and governance. Getting legislation on social responsibility reporting means that this must be anchored in the board, in line with what is otherwise stated in the annual report. Because then the board is behind the report. There's an important difference between working on it more on a voluntary basis, to use that expression: just that it's anchored on the board. It is, in addition to what I said in the context of the line from Kenneth Svendsen, perhaps the main reason to really make visible where the responsibility lies in the company for that type of reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e430	Everything a company does, is ultimately the responsibility of the board. It's not that you can just say that something happened further down in the organization, if it really tightens up. The fact that the board is not responsible for everything the company does, I believe is due to a misunderstanding. The councils were very concerned about this with reputation. I'm a little concerned that the policy is too. We're dealing with costs, and the government itself has promised a simplification of 10 billion. kr. The government's own figures show that the cost of business with laws and regulations and everything has gone up from 54 to 60 billion. NOK, and you just keep going. This is up to half a billion in costs based on calculations the government has done, and I think they might be too conservative. When is simplification going to begin? If you don't trust an area where companies are already doing so well, when are you going to do some simplification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e439	We're in the middle of working to simplify the everyday life of business. That goal we've set in 10 billion. kr in simplification by the end of 2015, stands firm, and the audit obligation, facilitating the establishment of limited liability companies, what we work with in accounting law, the EDAG project and other matters – helps to save companies too much in simplification. That job has to go on. So one could so far return the line to Gundersen and say that it is that companies today are working voluntarily on it, well also must mean that companies are using resources on it today. So that's a little bit of effect both ways. But I'm convinced that if companies look forward to building reputation through good social responsibility reporting, it might help companies over ten years reduce costs through this type of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e444	It is obvious that companies are using resources on it today, but there are so many challenges – that the Council of State knows just as well as I do. It varies from country to country and from country to country. When the Council of State talks about simplification, it's a fact that it's gone the other way. The government's own figures show that in 2010 the economy spent 54 billion dollars. NOK in costs. Now you're up to 60 billion. kr. That's the point: you're talking about simplification, but the sum is increasing year by year. I think maybe the Council of State should take it back that when things obviously work out there, and there is no need for any legislation on anything, one must also say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e449	With the risk of repeating myself – and I guess so far – the goal is 10 billion. kr fast. As far as simplification is concerned, it is clear that business costs do not only involve increased burdens. For example, it involves: wage increases have increased in the meantime. So there's multiple ratios that play in. But simplifying everyday life, primarily through simpler reporting practices between public and business, is an important goal for us. I mentioned the EDAG project, which deals with tax information and reporting possibilities in a better way. The large, heavy amounts of information between the public sector and enterprises are the most important things we work with. Here the simplification proposals will come in order. I am not sure if Gundersen will be satisfied, but that is another matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e454	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e470	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e479	Tax exemptions result in the loss of large revenues that are intended to benefit the community by the State. Tax exemptions in business also lead to unequal conditions of competition for those who pay their taxes according to their ability and for those who reduce income from taxation. Those who reduce income from taxation are able to offer goods and services at a lower price than those who declare all their income. These are states that we do not want in our country, and we are therefore improving and modernizing our systems so that large incomes are not exempt from taxation. Lack of measures against tax evasion weakens the motivation to act in a law-abiding manner. Therefore, the amendments currently proposed, based on proposals in NOU 2009: 4 Measures against tax evasion, are necessary. There is a clear majority view and a clear minority view expressed in the Committee's comments. The majority – Workers’ Party, Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party – underlines, as mentioned in the Proposition, that it is the duty of taxpayers to disclose income and wealth ratios. This also applies to VAT. The majority also support the Ministry in view of the fact that the tax system cannot rely solely on information provided by the taxpayer itself but that it is necessary to obtain control information from a third party. The majority believe that the need for control must always be weighed against the legal certainty of both taxpayers and third parties. In a democracy, as our country is, privacy and legal certainty must always be respected and promoted, including in tax matters. Some information from third parties is entirely unproblematic. This applies to all information from the employer, banks, etc. which is given to the tax base on wages and salaries and on deposits. With regard to the type of third parties from which information may be required, the Ministry proposes restrictions on individuals. In the view of the Ministry, there should be a higher threshold for requesting control information from individuals. The Ministry therefore does not propose an extension of the obligation of private individuals to provide third-party information. The majority support the Ministry's proposal for amendments to the Equation Act and the VAT Act, etc., as submitted. The minority of the Committee is skeptical of the proposed amendments to the law. The minority believes that the changes should be taken together with proposals from the notified Common Tax Administration Act, in order to get a comprehensive review of the challenges with the current law. The minority has a number of relationships with which they substantiate their scepticism about the changes. I guess they themselves will explain why they won't agree to adopt the changes that are now being proposed, so I can't go into it any more in my post. With regard to the establishment of a system of personnel lists in the sectors of restaurant and catering, hairdressing and beauty care, car care and car repair, the Committee unanimously endorses the proposal. The Committee shares the Ministry's view that undeclared work is a social problem. The loss of revenue by public authorities leads to unfortunate distortions of competition within sectors where this is a problem. When businesses have to keep lists of people who are at work at all times, tax authorities will be able to better identify undeclared work during on-the-job checks. It is positive and motivating for all traders who are serious and law-abiding, to continue to be so. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e494	The Progress Party considers that the duty of taxpayers to provide tasks over their own circumstances is a fundamental foundation for the proper functioning of the tax system. Tax evasion is an obvious and significant challenge, and if it evolves it will undermine the entire tax system. Therefore, it is important and correct that complete information is reported. The need for coordination and updating of legislation in line with societal and technological developments is also evident. However, this should be taken together with the submission of the notified Common Tax Administration Act, in order to get a comprehensive review of the challenges that also reveal themselves, and not take it piece by piece and piece. The Party notes that no proposals are made for changes to the information to be disclosed by third parties or to the duty of taxable persons to disclose information. However, when the party is very sceptical about the changes proposed, the following is due to the fact that the proposals of the Committee on Tax Exclusion come in small portions, rather than as an overall proposal. It makes it difficult to see the context and the whole. Extending the disclosure obligation to cover documents to all information in general is a major change. The need for changes is not documented and is not weighed against other considerations. Reference is made to hearings which include, inter alia: The Data Protection Agency, the Association of Lawyers and the BI have warned against a lack of borderline and collection of surplus information. Why should a collection of control information be required before the reporting deadline has expired? The obligation to provide information on professional secrecy is a challenging and difficult issue that the ministry is unable to clarify in this proposition. The extension of the disclosure obligation for third parties is a question of both the scope and the burden to be imposed on third parties. Potentially, the load can become heavy, in many ways. In the proposal, no proposal restricts or clarifies the information to be provided by a third party in addition to the condition that the information is relevant to the determination of taxes or charges. «Special reason» shall exist but shall not be more stringently defined than keeping control authorities in mind the finding of areas which they wish to investigate in the light of indications of possible tax evasion. The Progress Party sees a great danger that the surplus information can become enormous, and notes that there are no formalised restrictions. These are issues of great importance and importance with regard to the legal certainty of individuals, nor do these members find that the government has made the necessary adjustments and demarcations in this area. The proposition is deficient in its presentation of the challenges and lacks significant discussions on the challenges related to surplus information, legal certainty and privacy. The Progress Party therefore considers that amendments proposed should be discussed in full and presented together with the notified Tax Administration Act. I am addressing the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e509	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e512	It may not be that much to add after the previous speaker, but our resistance to the proposition that lies there is just the total lack of review of the completely principled sides. It concerns privacy and legal certainty. We cannot understand why one could not then wait to review that until a tax administration law is passed, because the Biggest agrees that tax evasion is a major challenge and, of course, has to be controlled. The need for all to operate within a legal framework is important both for the functioning of society and for the financing of the community. But you don't have to go too far either. Obviously, there are quite a number of institutions here that have pointed out that the surplus information is going to be huge. I can't see that from the point of view of society, people are almost going to be intrusive about any business, and suspect any businessman. There's a limit. I think you also have to respect that most people want to operate according to the law. We have a very good tax morality in Norway. So that's our concern -- that you don't go into the completely principled aspects of what you're proposing. The changes presented here are presented as if there are no changes at all, it is also written in the proposition. But then there's really quite a change, precisely because the surplus information is going to be so huge. That is also why the right is against the proposals that lie here. We see that there is a constant need to update the law to have a law that is in line with technological development and social development, but we need to take with us the aspects of legal certainty and privacy that such a society also needs to deal with in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e521	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e535	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e544	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 25 for 2012–2013, presented by Solvik-Olsen, Tybring-Gjedde, Anundsen, Svendsen and Rytman from the Progress Party, for better procedures in the case of tax complaints. The Financial Committee's recommendation is that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. This is because the draft representative deals with matters that are already being worked on. As regulators, we rely on citizens to be confident that tax matters will be treated in a safe way. Debate on taxpayers' legal certainty is a positive contribution to a continuous focus on whether we have a fair and effective procedure. In this context, tax collectors' work is important. The proposers do not think that tax complaints work independently enough, both because they are too poor, and because the case-laws of the tax complaints are too closely linked to the tax offices. We are going to take such concerns seriously, but it is important to stress that the tax complaints are independent bodies of the tax authorities or else. Taxants are pointed out by the county councils of the region in question and there is a requirement that two-thirds of their members be composed of persons with specific professional competence. The current legislation has been in force since 2008 and has been reviewed quite recently. In a letter to the Finance Committee, the Minister of Finance says that the Tax Directorate has identified a working group that assesses any improvements in the current tax complaints regime. One of the questions raised there is whether the professional competence of the members of the denominators should be strengthened further. The issue of tax complaints also works sufficiently independently of those taking the decision on appeals, according to the Minister of Finance. But he indicates that today's rule is that there should be a new case handler at each stage of the proceedings. However, questions may be asked as to whether, in a satisfactory manner, the complainant has its legal security when the same tax office which has taken a decision in a tax case has to provide services as a secretariat in the appeal proceedings. I am therefore pleased that this is one of the questions that should now be considered. The Minister of Finance says in his letter that there is an extensive distribution work that is now going on. Proposals for a new legal basis can be sent to the public at the earliest opportunity in 2014. However, the Council of State points out that a current will assess regulatory improvements that may occur in parallel with the work of a new tax administration law. The Financial Committee's plurality suggests that the work under way will provide clarifications and useful assessments of the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative. A time frame for completing the legislative work has also been set up. The progress party follows up its suggestions in the setting today, and I suggested that they themselves do closer things for why. I would like to stress myself that the proposal from the Progress Party that the government should come back with, among other things. progress plan and alternative solutions in the revised national budget for 2013 seemed to be cork necessary or defensive. I recommend that the Financial Committee give its opinion on the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e565	The rapporteur has now given a thorough and good account of the views of the government parties on this matter, and the Progress Party is alone in wanting its proposals adopted now, so there is no need for me to make a long contribution. However, I have a few comments. Firstly, I have to say that I am reacting a little to the initial tone of the document from the proposers, because it is assumed that the tax authorities have an inherent urge to collect as much tax as possible. In other words, it is said outright that all those who work around in the tax bill have as their starting point that they should charge the most tax they can – not make sure that people pay the right tax. I have to tell you with respect that I think is a rather special opinion. But of course, it's quite obvious that it can happen wrong. People can be subjected to unreasonable demands. That's why it's important that we have a tax appeal system that works well and that's perceived as credible. That is why it is good – it is very good – that the Tax Directorate is already working to assess different aspects of the activities of the tax complainants. Their mandate states that the purpose of the work is to ensure the handling of complaints in terms of effectiveness – that there should be an effective procedure – and that legal certainty should also be ensured. There are some basic premises that must be in place for people to be willing to contribute to the fissure layer that the welfare state, after all, is. It is that the tax system is to be seen as fair, that there is a fair correlation between the tax capacity and the tax liability. There's a debate that I'm not going to make any attempt to pull up right here and now. It assumes that the tax system is not eroded by a lot of loopholes, extensive black economy, and of course that you feel secure that the tax you pay is correct. For this reason, it is important that the legal certainty dimension is properly emphasised in the assessments to be carried out by this working party. I think it is good that the questions raised in Document 8 concerning both competence, independence and the organisation of case preparation for the subjects will be considered, and that it is reasonable that this should be addressed in a thorough and not least holistic manner in the context of the new tax administration law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e581	Tax subjects are a service institution whose task is to ensure the necessary legal certainty for taxpayers. This should therefore be the starting point for the organisation and construction of the names. Thus, tax subjects are not government tools to squander as much money as possible from each tax payer, but tax payers' tools to ensure that they are protected against illegal tax collection. The tax collectors are basically the weak party and need a speaker. By virtue of their monopoly of power, the authorities are much less in need of such a speaker. The party to the proceedings considers that all complaints should be dealt with with with with the necessary independence, so that the system does not favour the tax authorities at the expense of the taxpayer. This is the background to the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter. We note that the socialists have also gradually changed their attitude to the role of tax collectors, and that it is no longer solely about the welfare state’s fight against selfish tax critics. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the socialists also see the need for changes in the organisation of tax students, and we are pleased to see that the Tax Directorate has set up a working group to look at improvements in admission arrangements. However, the establishment of a working group does not mean, at the same time, that improvements to which it may be a majority are deferred pending any further changes. In other words, there is no point in doing good to the best enemy. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the government informs already in the context of the presentation of the revised budget of progress in the work of the working group. In other words, the Advance Party wants the government to inform the Storting about the status of the work and what points the government is prepared to promote. Additional proposals may be made separately at a later stage. It's e.g. no need to wait for bureaucratic exercises if a unanimous increase considers that the remuneration system in the names does not provide reasonable incentives for tax proceedings to be pursued. Nor is it necessary to continue a practice that tax payers are unable to meet in the denominators, if such a practice is considered unfortunate by an aggregate increase. For the Progress Party, legal certainty for taxpayers is not sufficiently ensured – among other things. because the taxpayer does not have the opportunity to respond to the complaint, while the tax office has the right to give its opinion on a case. Furthermore, the members do not have an incentive to raise a case they have received a draft recommendation from the tax offices about – because it is the tax offices that write drafts on the subject. It takes little imagination to think that they're not strict with themselves. If the Storting believes that a practice is unfortunate, it can be decided to terminate such practice without further bureaucratic exercises. The imposition of proper taxes is important and the risk of wrong taxes is greater for traders and people with special deductions. The main purpose of our proposal is therefore to limit damage where the taxpayer and the tax office consider differently in the error of tax rules and where the tax authorities have eagerly imposed criminal taxes. As you know, tax authorities are far more resource-intensive than the even taxpayer. The Progress Party also wants to change the remuneration structure of tax subjects. It is not necessarily the payment on a case-by-case basis that should be changed, but the wage incentives for pursuing cases should be changed. Members of tax institutions are unlikely to choose to spend extra time on matters if this does not result in any kind of financial compensation. However, this does not mean that compensation should encourage squaring. The Progress Party would also like to assess the competence of its members. Tax rules are often complicated, and lack of competence makes proper treatment difficult and is not good for the taxpayer. The Ministry’s letter of reply states that in certain regions it may be difficult to find people with the required skills. In such a situation, people should in any case not be deployed without competence, with the aim of meeting a given quota. This is in so far as a challenge to the Council of State – from this pulpit – if you think it is difficult to find competent people to sit in a denominator, should you recruit people who do not have the skills to satisfy the regional breakdown? I bring this to the attention of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e613	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e616	I just have a brief comment to explain a joint comment that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have. There's really a lot of consensus here. We just notice that the Minister of Finance has addressed the issues contained in the document. We asked for an explanation in connection with the revision. This is because it has been signaled that tax administration work is very complicated and can take a lot of time. Then it might be a good thing that the Storting is being informed in between. Now I heard the case rapporteur say that it was neither necessary, sound nor realistic. I hope the Council of State has a slightly different attitude to that. I think it's important to bring the Storting, because this is about the overall issues of legal security and privacy. We have a small comment that goes that in the process that has been initiated, one should also look at when complaints are to be given the opportunity to present their own case to the complainants, and at what time it is to be done. I just wanted to take the word to make the Council of States aware of that remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e625	It is not that long since we discussed the corresponding issue in Stortinget on the basis of an interpellation from the representative Fleet – I think it was – that was about legal certainty and about tax subjects. So this is a theme that the Storting has come back to on different occasions in the past. The reason for this is quite simple, because these are issues that are important for trust in the tax system and that are important for individual taxpayers. I agree with the representative, Mr Gundersen, that there is not much disagreement about getting the best possible rules and arrangements in this area, so that both the trust in the tax system and the legal certainty of taxpayers are as high as possible. It will always be that there is a certain rhetoric about the need for taxation and the tax system, but it is part of the debate. It is essentially about legal certainty and the trust that must always exist between the taxpayer and the tax rate, employers and the tax rate, in order to have a robust and good tax system. It's interesting to notice that during the discussion we had instead of a bill, the question was, why don't we wait until the big law comes, while now it's a little opposite: now we have to do things faster. It does well underline the need of the previous case, which may be in this case, namely that in some areas it may be both necessary and sensible to propose improvements before the big tax case comes. It is a complicated piece of legislation, and the aim is to send this law to the hearing in 2014, but that means that it will be a while before the Stortinget gets a comprehensive tax administration law. There is some reason why improvements should now be made in this area before the treatment of the large law itself begins in the Grand Duchy. There are three interesting questions. One concerns the composition of subjects and qualifications, and to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I would say that what we have to aim at is that the denominators at all times have the overall qualification necessary to ensure the legal certainty of taxpayers. The representative is quite right that this is not a matter for the tax authorities, but a matter for the individual taxpayer’s rights. Therefore, the qualifications of those who sit in the denominator become important. The Tax Directorate is now considering – and it is stated in the letter I sent to the Committee on 5 February – improvements in both the denominator and possible alternatives to it. The second question concerns remuneration. Here, various issues have been raised, but I also show here that the Tax Directorate is now doing a job to identify how the compensation is being provided today, is appropriate and reasonable from what can be called today's situation. This shall provide the basis for proposing changes to the remuneration system. I think it's important that you also have it with you. I would like to emphasise once again – and this I stressed on several occasions in the above-mentioned interpellation debate – that the taxpayer in a complaint case should have confidence that the matter is re-evaluated by an independent body. There are guidelines today on a general rule to ensure that there is a new case handler at any stage of the procedure. There may be things that make it difficult in individual matters, but the main principle has to be established here. Finally, as I said, we aim to send proposals for a new tax sharing law at the hearing in 2014. We'll keep evaluating improvements in the system that can happen in parallel to working with the big law, but we have to make sure that what we do in the meantime fits into the final result as much as possible. I think I can say that if we have something to report on the progress of this work – in the various documents presented by the government to the Stortinget, which deals with tax and general economic issues – we will of course do so, whether it is in a revised budget or in a government budget. It's obvious that we have to do it to keep the Storting well informed about this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e646	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e649	This was simply not good enough, Councillor. It's urgent, and it's more urgent than 2014. In addition, there must be a choice between there as well. The proposal shall be finalised at the hearing in 2014. When, if appropriate, is it to be presented to the Storting? In 2015 or 2016? There are individuals who pay taxes every year, for which this means something. Obviously, the Council of State has a very good time on the issues of whether more taxpayers are charged the correct tax or not and whether proper treatment procedures are followed or not. It's too weak. So the Council of State says at the same time that there's not much disagreement. Not much disagreement? If there is not much disagreement about the proposals the Progress Party is promoting, and there is agreement on the proposals, why should we wait for years to promote them for the Stortinget? Is it bureaucracy that decides? Is it the Labour Commission that decides this, or is it the Council of State or the Government that decides this? I challenge the Council of State once again: why can't we present this in the revised version and say that this is as far as we've come, we agree, and this is what we're implementing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e657	It is possible that I am a little bit whipped in the voice today, mainly because I have a cold, and it is possible that that's what made me perhaps a little unclear in the performance, but what's the point – and that's what I said – is that the law itself, i.e. the great law, is sent to the hearing in 2014. But I also said that improvements, either in this area or in the area we discussed in the previous case, can come before. We intend to do so in connection with this matter. When we look at what comes from the Tax Directorate, the representative Tybring-Gjedde should not be surprised if there were proposals for improvements before 2014. It is at least the goal when I see what comes from the Tax Directorate in this area. Then it comes before the large legal work is presented to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e662	Then I will again challenge the Council of States: if it can happen before, that we do not have to wait until 2014 and the big hearing, and there are already points that have been put forward and are now being discussed in this working group, and we are then promoting the proposal again – why not then present these things, as far as we have come, revised so that we get the information we are asking for, instead of attaching that protocol, in order to promote it as our own proposals a little later? Can't you just see that these were sensible proposals, all of which are likely to be agreed upon by the Grand Duchy, and present them in revised form? Then we agree and say that this is good – now we agree on something, now we have a common errand – and then we go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e667	What I think is important is that we agree that the legal certainty of taxpayers is important, but it may well be that in the concrete proposals there may be both nuances and disagreement, but that's what we get when that discussion comes. As I said in my main post: When I have something to report to Stortinget about this, whether it's revised or in the state budget for 2014, I'm going to report on how far you've come with this work, for this is something that it's quite possible to take a round before the law itself comes – in the light of the discussion we've had today, and the discussion we had in connection with the interpellation of the representative Fleet a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e674	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e690	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e699	The proposal for a representative concerns the value added tax, i.e. the VAT obligation when a good or a service is withdrawn from the business for private use by traders, and the scope of the VAT system in these cases. The Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee states: «The purpose of the exemption rules is to ensure that the same type of consumption of a good or service is equal to the chargeable charge, irrespective of whether it is the trader or the customer who uses the goods or service.» In addition, it says: ‘This neutrality is necessary to avoid adaptations and sample surfaces.’ It is clear from the VAT Act that deductions are made, inter alia. is present when a good or service normally sold to customers or contracting entities is withdrawn from the business for the private use of the trader. The VAT system is an important source of income for the financing of government expenditure, and the VAT is a general consumption tax payable on the turnover and withdrawal of goods and services. In general, the VAT system should have a broad basis, receive rates and be exempted, so as to minimise the socio-economic costs of managing the system. The value added tax should be predictable, non-discriminatory and easy to apply to both traders and charging authorities. In the case of off-takes of services, the use of special competencies is required to a certain extent before there is a chargeable withdrawal of services for private use. In the legislative process, it was considered most appropriate that the limit on private daily tasks was not attempted to be regulated with a detailed list, but that the limit was drawn in the context of the general interpretation of the procurement rules. The letter states that the Minister of Finance believes that there is a need for a review of the scope of the withdrawal rules and their practice. The Ministry of Finance has entrusted the Directorate of Taxation with the task of explaining the practice of the rules in this area, the scope of control in the various regions, and assessing whether there is a basis for softening the scope of the legislation. For example, it may be argued that there should be a level playing field between income taxes and VAT. It's a review the majority in the committee supports being done, and we look forward to it. Thus, there is a relatively high degree of consensus in the setting. The majority propose that the document be annexed to the protocol. The minority has a proposal that the Storting should ask the government to provide a review and assessment of the removal of excise VAT on services in the context of the revised national budget. As I see it, it becomes most of a question of form. I hesitate to ask the Council of State to come back in an appropriate manner and carry out the assessment that has been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e724	This case started because of a craftsman's endless fight against tax revenue, after he calculated the VAT on his work when he set up a family cabin with the family. The craftsman is self-employed and thus the work was considered to be a withdrawal from the business. This issue only affects self-employed people. If he had been employed in his own company, the effort would not have been a problem. Last August, the representative of the Progress Party, Jørund Rytman, sent two questions to the Minister for Finance, pointing to unfairness in how the excise VAT was handled for self-employed persons. In the first answer, the Minister of Finance did not see any problem or need for review. One week after was the wording: there is no need for follow-up of this matter. Last October, Rytman sent another question to the Minister of Finance, asking: ‘Does the Minister of Finance intend to calculate and pay a value-added tax if a lawyer, architect, communications consultant, engineer or auditor, who is the owner or self-employed person, takes advantage of his special competence and provides advice in his spare time?’ The rationale was as follows: «Accrual value added tax on services shall be paid if a trader or owner of an establishment uses his or her special competence in the field of leisure, e.g.: a carpenter who snows in his or her family or friends' dwelling, but does something more than anyone could do within his or her field of activity." The Minister of Finance then gave a comprehensive answer which I shall not repeat here. In his reply, however, the Minister of Finance wrote that the trader must have special competence to a certain extent before the levy VAT is triggered. For example, a carpenter can also carry out maintenance and easier construction work on his own cabin without this triggering an excise value tax. On the other hand, if an entire cabin is built, there is no doubt that this triggers an excise value tax. There may be borderline cases between these extremes. The Minister of Finance further writes that according to the Tax Directorate, there does not seem to be any question of limiting private daily tasks as a significant part of the tax revenue tax VAT. It may seem that the Minister of Finance is not in doubt about what he thinks about the matter. Back to the craftsman: He got a meeting with the Ministry of Finance last November, with the help of the Tax Payer Association. The Ministry promised to look into the matter, and the decision is expected in these days. Maybe we're already getting answers today? The party has worked on this for a long time and initially had a desire to propose the removal of excise value taxes on services provided during the leisure time of self-employed people today. But we are patient and will wait until the Minister of Finance has reached a conclusion. However, although we do not today get this tax removed on services provided during leisure time, we have been given a focus on a problem that is unfair and that affects individuals. Is it possible that the government will do something about this? Of course, we're excited about the outcome. Therefore, our proposal is that the Stortinget ask the government to provide a review and assessment of the removal of excise VAT on services in the context of the revised national budget. I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e752	The representative Ida Marie Holen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e755	The matter we are dealing with now is reflected in the series of similar cases over the past few years, which culminate in the meeting of individuals with unclear or incomprehensible legislation and a tax rate that acts as anything but smooth and indicative, with the result that many get large, seemingly unjustified tax claims, with a very long process against a non-convenient counterparty. It is therefore good that the Minister of Finance realises that there is a need to review the practice of the rules on value added tax related to services for private use. However, it remains to be seen whether this review entails any changes. There have been several examples of the fact that similar reviews with expectations of changes in understanding or practice have not become anything but a recent review. A nearby example is the evaluation of the tax reform related to the tax rules for individual entities. The evaluation that was actively used by, among others, The central party that changes were imminent meant nothing but the continuation of today's rules, despite expectations and signals of the opposite. In this way it is exciting to hear the Minister of Finance's comments in a short time, where he hopefully says something about what has come in the feedback he received before Easter from the Tax Directorate. So to the matter itself. The left addressed this issue already in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2013. There we showed examples, for example: carpenter Geir Lundheim from Kongsberg, also mentioned earlier. He has received a tax claim from Tax South of NOK 106 000 in VAT at his own working hours to have built his own cabin in the leisure. Another example: Timber Robin Holmes from West Fossen, who built his own house during the financial crisis instead of reporting unemployed, has subsequently received a tax charge of NOK 200,000. None of these tax claims would have been triggered if they had done exactly the same work on their own leisure time, but had been employed by a carpenter company instead of being self-employed. In the view of the Left, this is an unacceptable practice and a strong discrimination against craftsmen who run their own AS or who are employed by an employer. The proposers also refer to several examples where such an understanding of the legislation, which in the case of Geir Lundheim and Robin Holmes, has had almost absurd consequences. At the top you can ask about a self-employed person who runs the catering company, who can strictly cook for his family without having to calculate and pay VAT for the time that goes into cooking. In answer to question No. 270 from the Left in connection with the treatment of the 2013 State Budget, the Ministry wrote: ‘The Ministry sees that in some cases the limit on daily private tasks may be difficult to draw. However, it is considered most appropriate that the limit is not attempted to be regulated but is drawn in the context of the general interpretation of the exclusion clause.» I can agree with such a description, if it was such that the interpretation made sense. It's obviously not. It is therefore necessary to clarify in the legislative text that self-employed craftsmen do not end up in the same situation as the previous article.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e771	Initially, a two-three words about the VAT system as such: it is one of the main sources of funding for the Community’s many different good purposes – over 200 billion. kr per year. It's important to keep it with you. At the same time, the VAT system is quite complicated. Unlike the tax system in general, the VAT system, with its different rates and different rules, is more complicated to deal with than for example. parts of the direct tax system. It makes this and other issues more demanding. The main purpose of withdrawal rules is that the same type of consumption of a good or a service shall be equal to charging. That's the starting point. This applies regardless of whether it is a trader or the customer who uses the goods or the service. This so-called neutrality is important in order to avoid adaptations and sample surfaces. This is a legislation that is not specific to Norway, but which is more generally also in other countries where there is a corresponding VAT system. Then I see – and it illustrates this matter – that it is difficult to draw precise limits to everyday tasks, as mentioned by previous speakers today. As has also been pointed out in the past, it was considered most appropriate in the preparatory work of the VAT Act that this limit was not regulated but that it was raised in the more general interpretation of the exemption rules. Then I'm a little uncertain about what's in the proposal itself – if one somehow wants to remove this whole withdrawal rule, or if it only applies to leisure time. The proposal points out that the withdrawal of services for private use appears to pose a very practical problem. Because of this, but also because I am concerned that we should have an effective VAT system, which is easy to practice both for the individual trader and for the charging authorities, I believe there is a need for a review of how the rules are currently being practised in terms of excise value taxes for such services. I also agree that it is appropriate to consider whether the scope of the rules in this area should be adjusted. I'm open to it, to try to find out more practical rules. But it's always hard to draw borders, because some will end up below, and some will cross a border, including in the VAT system. So you have to keep it with you. On 4 January of this year, the Tax Directorate received an investigation mission on excise value added tax, which concerns services for private use. It came back March 15th, just before Easter. I have not had the opportunity to go through it at the moment, but I can promise that we will do so quickly and thoroughly. As soon as I'm done with it, I'll make sure that any changes to the rules are presented to the Storting in the usual way, after it's been out in general consultation. I will promise that it will go as fast as it is proper to do so. We have to try to bring this matter to a good conclusion, in order to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e789	The Council of State said that neutrality is important in order to avoid progenyty – this is what a real bureaucracy says. This with excise value added tax is an interesting phenomenon. It's actually a definition of this today, and it's that you have to prove that you don't have the skills to do the work to get out. So that's the requirement. So if I don't have the skills to sneak, which I don't have, so it's very good, or that I don't have the skills to cook – or have the skills to do anything – it's an advantage. That's the advantage of not having competence. Does the Council of State think that it sounds reasonable, that that definition is very neutral, and that a good balance has been found? Or does the Council of State think this is unreasonable, and will he work to change this, to say to carpenters, cooks, and all those who run different businesses in their working hours that this will change?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e798	I don't think the bureaucracy is talking, but it's the Minister of Finance. One of the most important tasks of any Minister of Finance is to take care of the state’s revenue — and, to a large extent, its expenditure. It is important to have a tax system that collects income into the community in a good, sensible and just way. That's good. I refer to what I said at the end of my post: I am open to see if you should make changes to the legislation to get rules that are easier to practice. It is always a goal to try to simplify the legislation, cf. earlier discussions today, but it is not easy to draw these limits. This always has it by itself, as I said, that those who are just below a limit feel that they should be above this limit. So there's finally going to be an assessment between different good purposes, and qualification will be important. In addition, the Minister of Finance is quite good at snoring, but I am not subject to VAT, to say the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e805	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e821	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mrs Marthinsen – for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e832	What we're dealing with right now is a proposal to put down a productivity commission. Initially, I would like to say that it is important that we have an ongoing debate on important developments in the Norwegian economy. Right now we have, among other things. the perspective message is for treatment in Stortinget. The clearest conclusion is that money on book is good and good, but the key to maintaining a high level of public welfare 20, 30 and 40 years in advance is to keep employment rates high and productivity growth high. It is not that it is obvious that the Norwegian economy is doing well even if we have oil revenues. It has been bad before, and it can be done again if we do not keep order and make sure that the main pillars of Norwegian economic policy are fenced and maintained: responsible oil money use, a broad tax base that provides the basis for relatively low rates, tripartite cooperation, and wage settlements that industry is able to carry over time. These are key factors in trying to explain why we have steadily increased productivity in mainland Norway in the last 20 years. It has been significantly higher with us than with our main trading partners in the EU. So we know that productivity growth has varied in recent years. But with all possible respect for the proposers, there is hardly any need for a Commission to conclude that the financial crisis has also affected Norwegian companies and Norwegian industry. We know that some traditional mainland industries have challenges. We have a high cost level in Norway. It is demanding, particularly when export markets fail. We see it perhaps most clearly in the woodworking industry, which is in a very serious situation. We also see that other traditional mainland industries have a tough time. At the same time, I am simply not aware of the general description of poverty which the opposition has a strong tendency to do, and which is also reflected in this proposal. I'm not in on it to the degrees to talk down what's going on in Norwegian business. There's a sort of impression that the only thing that goes well is the oil-related part of business. That's wrong. Employment growth has been higher every quarter under the red-green government than under four years with Bondevik, and employment growth is actually occurring in almost all sectors. You don't have to draw a more pinkish picture than it's for, but when the governor's concern is, it's with an average background for the last five years. This means that the worst crisis years, 2008 and 2009, are included. At that time, many companies experienced falling productivity, among other things. because they chose to keep their labour force, despite dwindling order books, pending better times. It is clear that productivity figures are poor in isolation, but it is good for employment, and it is good to avoid strengthening the crisis and making it even more difficult to reverse developments. We got new productivity growth figures from the SSB just before Easter, which shows that it is going the right way – almost doubling from 2011 to 2012. It's a very good sign, especially when we see that we have a decline in the euro zone again. A few weeks ago, the OECD presented a new report, Going for Growth, which brings Norway forward as a country that stands out just because of high productivity growth in the mainland economy. One also points out that the work effort measured in hours of work is slowing us down, but it just shows how right the focus we have on getting people to work, keeping people at work and getting them to work longer, is actually. However, the main conclusion of the OECD is that Norway stands out positively in terms of GDP per capita, precisely because of higher labour productivity growth. Again, this is not about sub-communicating the challenges that parts of Norwegian working life actually face, but about helping to draw a more accurate picture of what the Norwegian economy looks like. And I think that's right and important to, for example. all the entrepreneurs behind the 25 000 new ASs that were established last year, and all the people who have established businesses that have become gas companies that we get more and more of – many more than in our neighbouring countries. We know well what challenges we have. They're not solved by putting down a commission. They are solved by continuing the heavy commitments made in research, education, transport and infrastructure, but above all by continuing to take responsibility for the Norwegian economy, fences on the front-line model, are guarantors of responsible oil money use and provide a cost level and a cost price that does not further exacerbate the situation for the part of the industry that already has trading partners in crisis. Nothing is more important for Norwegian competitive enterprises than that. We have repeatedly asked in this room for a clarification as to whether the rule of action is firm at the moment when the Right finds it too good to drag the party of progress with itself into the government offices – we have not got it, and it should come. With this I present the position of the Financial Committee in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e858	There is no doubt that much is going well in this country, but the concern about the serious trends we see at the same time makes the Progress Party and the opposition want to address the issues now rather than wait until the crisis becomes concrete in Norway. This is why we need to take good action to ensure that jobs survive in Norway and that new jobs are developed to a greater extent than today. Many of the entrepreneurs who are trying to talk positively about the Workers' Party will rather have a government shift, because they see that a blue or bourgeois, non-socialist policy is better suited to innovation than today's government. It is therefore important to focus on a productivity commission, as it will ensure that the focus of the State and the authorities is on that theme. The productivity of people is influenced both by their own skills, by the availability of good tools and by the systems under which they work. A smart and flexible business and a ditto public sector enable one to put better technology into practice faster, one to develop new technologies, and one to get better users of technology. One can stimulate flexibility in working life, so that individuals can make the best possible contribution within their own frameworks, rather than today's A4 solution with very strict rules. One can get a tax system that stimulates work. One can obtain a pension scheme that does not lock labour permanently in the individual sectors. One can stimulate new investment in Norwegian business and develop knowledge clusters rather than have a Minister of Industry who is more interested in travelling abroad to see how Norwegian business can travel out of the country. And you can look at e.g. something as simple as the country's own building mass. We see that today there are a lot of doctors and policemen who work inappropriately and ineffectively, not because they don't have knowledge and characteristics, but because the frames in the building mass are not good. The fact that one has facsimile guards in Norwegian nursing homes shows a little how government policy doesn't work – when one uses people to look after old-fashioned technology rather than making sure they use modern technology. Such things could a productivity commission like to create increased focus on, so that the government could not just hide behind statistics that they adapt to their purposes, but actually made real improvements. It has been a weak productivity development. There's no doubt about it. It also warned the head of the central bank. But it's a little striking how the red-green parties when such debates come, always drag the statistics so that it comes to the year that suits them. In this situation, the government found it necessary to withdraw the statistics to 1990 in order to show that Norway did not go so far. However, when one is in employment debates, one always starts with the statistics from 2005 to show how this government has allegedly provided increased employment in Norway, although everyone knows that the break point for growth in Norway came in the summer of 2003 and not when the red-greens took over. So there's a growth that started under the previous government, for example. because the interest rate then began to stabilize and the oil price rose to a higher level which made oil investments rise, and it has a joy of entering a red-green government. But we see that as the red-green government has been allowed to rule, productivity in Norway has been impaired, because one has had the wrong tool use. The government is talking both in the setting and in this room about the growth of employment. I would like to remind you of a few things: one is that we have an employment growth where the proportion of people in the labour market does not increase. The proportion of people in working life should rise, and the proportion of people in pre-employment who are out of work should decrease when one has a huge increase in economic activity and in labour immigration. We haven't seen that. We see that we still push very many people of working age out of work, and then you fill one with work immigration instead. The problem is that we see that a lot of the immigrants who come to work last less time in the workplace before they become part of the Nav system themselves. Thus, this government is obliged to run a pyramid game where it is able to increase employment, but with people who will fall out of work more and more quickly, and thus impose large costs on the welfare community. It is also part of the situation on which we should have a better debate. It is a good basis for growth to have today's welfare system, said government parties in the setting. Well, the Norwegian growth per capita has been zero in the last few years. When you look at the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, they have Norway as one of the few countries where per capita income has fallen in recent years. Then the government also has to take over that. This is precisely why it is important to look at how we stimulate business, how we stimulate the public sector to use labour more productively, and not just boast that one gets more people without looking at what they can produce. I refer to the proposal that the Progress Party, together with others, is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e873	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e876	What amazes me most in dealing with this matter is the reaction of the Workers' Party. Obviously, such a proposal is perceived as an attack on government and government performance, and goes directly into the defence position. This proposal has been made because we believe that such a Commission can make good proposals on how we can increase productivity in Norway. I assume that we agree that it is the labour force that supports and finances the well-being of Norway, and there is an increase in labour that provides a basis for increased well-being. When we look at the statistics from the last 10–15 years, we see that Norway has had a strong wage growth, and we have had a falling productivity growth. That is what is challenging for Norway. It is quite clear that a high productivity growth provides a basis for us to take on more well-being in the form of increased wages, more leisure time and increased tax revenues to fund joint well-being or improve the competitiveness of businesses. There was a strong change from the period 2000–2005 to the period from 2006 to today, where we see that productivity growth was high and higher than that of our trading partners, during the period of the red-green government, and it has been lower than that of our trading partners. At the same time, we see from the new figures from Technical Calculation Committee that the salary level in industry today is almost 70 pst. higher than our trading partners. There may be a significant challenge for Norway and for Norwegian jobs in the years ahead. There are very many good examples of how industrial enterprises have succeeded in increasing their productivity by working smarter, by investing in new technology. We can look at the furniture industry, with Ekorenes as a good example, which has gone through the continuous renewal of its technology and production, which has helped to ensure that an industry that was initially – and several times has been – condemned north and down, has nevertheless been successful in Norway. The same applies to the yard industry, with Kleben Verft as a good example, as ‘outsourced’ hull production, but which has now flagged it home, because new ways of welding hulls have been found to make Norway competitive. We also see that there is a series of public reports that show that productivity varies considerably between different municipalities in Norway — showing that there is a significant potential to improve well-being by learning from one another, by following ‘Best Practice’. Oil money can help build Norway as a nation by investing in knowledge and infrastructure and having good framework conditions for our businesses, thus providing a basis for future well-being. But there is also a danger that oil revenues may help us to postpone a completely necessary conversion, and that through it we will contribute to a weaker productivity development than we would otherwise have. The proposal to set down a productivity commission comes from Denmark, New Zealand and Australia. The first report from the Danish productivity commission has now been presented. It shows that if Denmark had had the same productivity development as Sweden in the period 1996–2011, Denmark could have granted free public transport, employing twice as many teachers between 1 and 5. school steps, built nine new hospitals each year or tripled the assistance. It shows the importance of productivity growth for the well-being of a nation. That's why I'm amazed at what I want to say is a little arrogant rejection of this proposal by the government parties. The proposal was presented as an invitation both to an important debate and to work together to produce concrete proposals that could help increase productivity, thus providing a good basis for future welfare in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e893	There is currently an important document for consideration in the Financial Committee dealing with many of the issues raised by the representative Sanner and others in this discussion. The Perspective Communication is there, a Communication that shows some important challenges for Norway and the Norwegian economy, both in the short and medium term. There is a possibility of taking the broad discussion that more people here are after. If one compares Denmark and Sweden, it is possible that one gets the type of size that the representative Sanner mentions. However, the main point is that if one looks at the development of productivity in Norway and Sweden, it is astonishingly similar both in the period 2006–2011, in the period 2001–2005 and also in the period 1991–2011. Norway and Sweden have similar developments in productivity. It's interesting – so far – to notice exactly that. The most important thing we can do is to have an economy that can create, and that – some time later – can share. In addition, we must have an economy based on the fact that we have both productivity, production and growth-intensive enterprises at the bottom. This is an important guide for the government of economic policy. In this context, it is also important to put Norway in a larger picture. Look at the countries around us, look at the country in Europe – then one will see that Norway is doing well. This is the width of Norway’s sprawling out as a good country in Europe. It is worth taking the positive picture of Norway and the Norwegian economy. Looking at productivity trends, we can see that, with the exception of America, one — perhaps — from 2006 to 2011 had similar developments both in Sweden, Denmark and Norway, for example. One had a marked decline in productivity in the context of the financial crisis and immediately after it. But if we look at the latest figures in national accounts that did not come long ago, we see that the productivity of the mainland economy in 2012 was about 1.6 pst. – in line with the average we had between 2001 and 2011. I would say there are many challenges in the Norwegian economy. One of the main challenges is perhaps the one that the representative Sanner pointed out to: a high level of costs. It's important that, in order to carry a high pay level over time, we also have an productivity that allows us to carry a higher pay level than others. In addition, in recent years Norway has had a very positive trend in foreign exchange, which has allowed you to cope with a slightly higher level of pay than you would otherwise have done. The challenge of both wage growth and cost growth — and thus of weakening competitiveness vis-à-vis our partners — is one of the main challenges facing the Norwegian economy in the future. This is why the government has reduced a sample, among other things. shall look at wage formation in the light of productivity developments in recent years. The Holden III Committee will address some of the questions raised by the representative Sanner. These are important questions. One shall not only look at wage formation in the light of productivity developments, but also at the role of income statements and, in particular, the role of the front-stage model in terms of income statements in the future. There's a job going on. There is a document for discussion in Stortinget which should provide the basis for a thorough and good discussion on the way forward. With these words, I just want to end with the following: we're going to keep laying the foundation for a productive economy. We're going to keep dividing the gains that this gives, in a fair, fair and good way. I am convinced that one of the main reasons why we can maintain high productivity in Norway is that burdens and obligations are fairly fairly fairly distributed. It is a competitive advantage, and we should continue to enjoy that competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e914	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e917	Let me first say that I think that all parties in this hall want to have a fair Norway. There's no one here working for injustice. But at the same time, I think we disagree a little bit about what's fair in terms of dividends. Is it fair that everyone has the same opportunity, or is everyone going to have the same result? There we'll probably disagree a little bit, but no one is saying that one is fair and the other is unfair. The Council of State addressed this issue with exchange rates, which have improved significantly in Norway. In fact, we have doubled our foreign exchange ratio because the oil price has risen sharply. The problem is that in this exchange relationship – which has led to price growth across the industry – there are people who are not getting the pleasure of selling expensive oil and gas. They experience a lower level of competitiveness. It is here that the lack of productivity growth is striking, because these industrial enterprises are not going to move on. The central bank manager said: "We don't create more values today than we did five years ago." Do the Councils agree with this statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e931	If you look at value creation per capita, to start with, there's a great figure in the perspective message – I'm counting on the representative Solvik-Olsen to see it. The figure shows value creation in Norway per capita of both the share of mainland Norway and that of oil included. In terms of oil included, Norway is on top, and we are also on the pole when one looks at the value creation per capita in mainland Norway. One feature of Norway in recent years is that we have had a very strong population growth that naturally affects the image of Solvik-Olsen’s representative. In terms of the exchange ratio, I said that in addition to good productivity, the exchange ratio has made it possible for us to take out a larger wage increase, but it is not certain that we can keep productivity up at the same level, or that we can have this favourable exchange ratio into the future. That is why wage formation and competitiveness are so important, and that is why we have, among other things. held down the Holden III Committee to review those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e938	Let me first say that I perceive the Minister of Finance's reference to the Perspective Communication and the Holden III Committee as a recognition of the need both for a debate and for concrete actions that can contribute to increased productivity growth. There is no doubt that the perspective statement shows that there is a need to raise productivity growth. The alternative could be to either increase taxes or cut welfare 20–30 years in time. The Minister of Finance also refers to the Holden III Committee and says it should address these issues, but first and foremost look at wage formation. My question is then whether the Minister of Finance will ask the Holden III Committee to make concrete proposals on how to contribute to increased productivity growth in the public and private sectors in the context of the work of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e946	At first I think it's important to make the discussion a little bit wider. It is clear that much of the good productivity work is carried out in each enterprise through technology development. One might say that the public sector is a kind of mentor or trainer in relation to private businesses, a bit like a football coach who has eleven players on the field at any time. They are the ones who have to win the game, but at the same time the coach has an important role to play. And so is productivity. We need to have a good education system, we need to focus on important things like research, transportation and other things about the state budget. Although one had a productivity commission that looked at various proposals, at the end of the day it would be the individual enterprise that has to do the main work in terms of productivity development. I have no plans to change the mandate of the Holden III Committee, but in what I said in my post, it is that productivity-related issues will be natural for the sample to look at in that context. It is already in the mandate it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e953	The Council of State is obliged to program itself to boast of its own government, and he is very good at that. But I don't think you should go so far outside this room to realize that an increasing number of people who go on different Nav services, an increasing number of people in the public sector, that labour-immigrants who are not going to work are increasing violently and an increasing level of costs in Norwegian industry is a challenge that is extremely difficult for Norway to continue to bear. Does the Council of State believe that today’s development – if it continues as this government puts it – is sustainable? None of these points were mentioned, it is necessary to consider, for example: limiting labour immigration, immigration, and the number of people on the hub, etc., or is everything brilliantly good, you are satisfied, and you go to the elections on the promise that this will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e958	It is probably not just the Minister of Finance who has noticed the results in Norway. Last time I went home from Denmark, I read an article in the Financial Times that was quite commendable in its review, and used, among other things. The way we have organized the management of oil wealth as a shining example. There are many others who are concerned about and see the good results produced by the economy in Norway, in order to use such an expression. I'm proud of what I've been given, but at the same time I'm impatient, because there are some things I should have done in addition, among other things. to have a more inclusive working life. What makes the doorway higher and wider and the doorstep lower for those who want to make a good effort in the workplace is an important part of that strategy. The government is working on it, especially the Ministry of Labour. Getting a job that is more open to those who want to make an effort is important, and then including many of those who are currently out of work and who want to do a decent and good job. I'm not satisfied in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e965	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e970	Of course, there is a lot we need to take care of and develop further in Norway — in a country that is at the top of the world, of course it is. But I have to say I'm amazed that the position rejects the proposals as blatant as you do, because it's clear that productivity is the very core of how we're going to manage to maintain the society we have. We have proven some challenges. The rapporteur spoke about very much correctly in his speech, but focused solely on the financial crisis as a challenge. That's not what's our challenge. The financial crisis has to deal with the whole world, where we are in the same boat with quite a number of others. Our very special own challenges are Norway that has to deal with. There is a lot of evidence that Norway now has an economy that has so good assumptions in many ways that we have a huge challenge if we want to focus on continuing competitive, processing activities in Norway. Then we know that the cost level explodes, and then it doesn't think we're as good as Sweden, if our cost level increases much faster than in Sweden. Then we have to be much better than Sweden. This should be well known by the Minister of Finance since we are both from Hedmark, a state that has completely different costs right across the border and that has no infectious effect of oil activities. There is almost not one reason to maintain activity in Hedmark today, precisely because the development of productivity — all of it — is as good in Sweden as in Norway, but the level of costs in Norway is high. That's the challenge, and it's not a small challenge. Of course, it gives us good opportunities to continue to discuss in the perspective communication, but I think in particular the challenge is so great that it should also receive attention through its own productivity commission. We have – as Ketil Solvik-Olsen was also involved in the exchange of lines – doubled our exchange relationship with the rest of the world. That's because we sell raw materials that are very high in an international market. This also increases the challenge of competitive, processing activities in Norway, and that is the challenge I at least wanted to face in terms of productivity commissions. Then there are no crisis packages for woodworking when you see that there is a bit of a crisis there, then you simply have to be better on all other assumptions. I think we all who are in this room here, in particular, see it as a good thing that the pay level is high – we all do – but it can't develop in such a way that you outrun your own jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e984	Let me start by stating that I agree with some of the basis for the debate, as a means of increasing productivity for growth in the economy, and the importance of choosing best practice. What I'm not sure about is how good it makes sense to debate a part of the economy detached from the context it's in. The reality is that over the 20 years we have behind us, the productivity of the mainland economy has been better than in Denmark and at the level of growth in the United States, Japan and Sweden. The decrease in productivity from 2006, both in Norway and in many of our trading partners, can be seen in the context of the financial crisis and economic cycles. In times of decline, productivity tends to fall more than employment because of the holding of employees by enterprises, and in times of recession, productivity is increasing more than employment by requiring more of each employee before adding more. Paradoxically, Germany has reduced productivity despite stable unemployment, while Spain has increased productivity compared to before the financial crisis, despite increasing unemployment, reduced GDP and reduced employment. The debate today must be seen in the light of this picture. The nature of financial policy is such that if one pulls one lever in one direction, another lever draws the opposite way. So I've heard someone say that the only statistics you can trust is the one you've cheated on yourself. The question is who's cheating. Solvik-Olsen means that we choose years with care when discussing employment figures. Well, for the past 30 years, the Workers' Party has had government power for 20 years, and the bourgeois parties for 10 years. Over the 20 years the Labour Party has had government power, the number of jobs has increased by an average of 25 000 each year. In the years that citizens have had government power, it has increased by about 12,500 every year on average. We get the same picture, or even more dramatic in favor of the Workers' Party, even if we use the last 8 years, the last 10 years, the last 20 years or the last 40 years as a basis. Then I'm not saying it as proof that the Workers' Party is always right. I know that no one is right all the time, but even a broken clock has just twice every day. That's the right-hand side that gives the impression that we're choosing years with care. It is their claim, and then it is their responsibility to document it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e991	I have an interest in listening to this debate. There was one claim here that it was arrogant of the government party to reject the proposal for an own productivity commission. It is a claim that came from the representative, Sanner, and I found it a little difficult to leave it undisputed. It's actually going to reverse that claim by saying that it's reasonably arrogant to think that it's this thing that's now the only solution, to put down a commission. We should view this proposal as an invitation, said the representative, Mr Sanner. Yes, there is already an invitation in the Storting to a wide debate on many of these proposals. I want to make note of the last part of the plural's comment, as shown in the setting: ‘The majority are of the opinion that the challenges facing productivity growth are not being solved by the creation of a Commission now. It is more about continuing the implementation of policies that contribute to enhanced productivity and are ongoing.’ Here, there is a good foundation for why we are now investing in future labour, from kindergarten, through elementary and secondary schools, to higher education and university, why we should invest in research and development, why we have jointly worked for a pension system and for good rules for other schemes that secure income, which stimulate employment and provide adequate security for the individual, why we are pursuing an active labour market policy and why we have given and will continue to make significant promises to road and rail over several years and will soon put forward a new offensive national transport plan. In the same section of the comment, to which I go back, is the perspective message as an invitation and one has dropped down a Holden III selection. So we're left with one question: is that the solution now, to put down your own commission to look at productivity? Then I actually thought that we should respect that here there might be different answers to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1007	It is nice that the representative Meltveit Kleppa refers to the statement of intent, and that there is an invitation to debate these important questions. Now I don't think there is any general perception in the Storting, either in the opposition parties or in the government parties, that the government is taking the Stortinget on board, dialogue and meets with good proposals that are being promoted in this room. Rather, on the contrary, it is an opinion, and I think it goes far into the government parties too, that the government is not very willing to listen to proposals that come from the Storting – and at least not from the opposition. I guess I think the last seven to eight years are a good enough reason for this proposal. No one contests the number of jobs created in the private sector, but what we are considering is the figures that the government itself presents in its official documents, which show that there has been a severe deterioration in cost competitiveness over the last seven years. While competitiveness remained at the same level under the civil government, it has been severely weakened in the last seven years. It is a combination of a strong wage growth and a falling productivity growth. That's what we're using to look forward to and how we're going to be able to create and secure the well-being of the decades ahead because we know the numbers and perspectives from the perspective communication, that's that there's less to fund more pensioners, and that we have a need for funding when we're looking a few decades ahead. That is why the Right believes that it makes sense to also invite a Commission to make proposals, which can contribute to increased productivity. I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is about transport, about investing in knowledge and research, but it is also about facilitating better competition in the market and improving the basis for competition between the public and private sectors. I think we must note that the government and the government parties are not willing to have a dialogue on this proposal. Then we can approach the perspective message with boldness and see if there is a greater willingness in the government parties to have dialogue with the opposition on proposals and comments in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1016	I think this debate reveals a little bit that one lets the growth that has been in the Norwegian economy, which the SSB says is largely due to huge increases in the oil price that have caused oil investments to rise sharply, camouflage some of the underlying problems in the Norwegian economy, which the opposition is trying to put on. Again to the Governor. So he decided that the value creation per capita is no higher today than it was five years ago. But then one, fortunately for the red-greens, has had so much immigration in this country that it seems that we have become more prosperous. So when we divide it into several people, it's been a zero growth. In addition, the governor said that the growth of assets per capita has fallen sharply below the red-green government and is close to zero, even with low interest rates and growth in the economy. Despite the fact that it's cheap to borrow money to invest in assets, and despite the fact that the assumptions in terms of economic growth are good, one has not. It's a little bit about the conditions of business, which makes them not want to invest in this country to the extent that they should. The central bank manager also said that value creation has gone to consumption – not to growth in assets. And when one knows that productivity is about how good machines – how good equipment – one has in bed, and how good a knowledge one has to use them, it is worrying that one under the red-green government has had a strong consumption growth, but not a strong investment growth. So the Minister of Finance said in his reply that someone had to look at business in the first place, and that they have a responsibility to ensure good productivity in their businesses. Yes, but the public sector is also a significant source of employment. The level of investment in the public sector has not exactly marked an enormous growth. Yes, more money is allocated to transport now than eight years ago, but the proportion of investment – the increase in revenue for the country due to high oil prices – has not increased particularly. The academics will show that the appropriations for research have increased. Yes, but they have increased less than the expenditure on the general government budget and much less than the revenue of the state. So you haven't given priority to these areas even if you've had a cost increase. When the red-green then boasts that we have never spent more money on the road and that this government is overfulfilling the national transport plan, it is right that this government has spent all the money it promised to spend on the road and on the railway, but when they say how many projects they've started, it's only 80 pst. of the promised projects that have started. But they've spent all the money. This indicates that this government itself is not very productive in the way it spends the money, when it manages to spend the money before it has started all the projects. This is exactly what proves the opposition's point, that we also have to look at productivity here. So it's not enough to boast that all the money is spent when 20 pst. of the projects not even started, and 60-70 pst. of the projects started are severely delayed. It's for thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1033	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1049	At the Grand Hall on 13 June 2001 Lars Rise of the Christian People's Party – he was the rapporteur for the case – said the following: ‘In order to achieve real efficiency and rationalisation, it is important to have a full overview of the total resource use related to property management. The establishment of a separate management company will involve a ‘win-win’ situation for the lessor and the lessee. Local departments will be extended more to active business and service bodies for tenants, which hopefully will receive better service. You can also hope for better management of the property stock.’ The quotation describes the intention behind the establishment of defence buildings as a management company under the Ministry of Defence, which Stortinget adopted later that same day. There is no doubt that the establishment of defence buildings is in principle correct, that it reveals the real costs and places where they occur, adapts the scope of EBA – property, construction and infrastructure to the needs of the defence and to what is no longer needed. There is no doubt that the model at an overall level has been positive. In particular, sales of EBA and infrastructure have been necessary. Military managers and military departments have become more cost-conscious and aware that the use of construction actually has a cost. You can see that through the so-called rental model. Defence construction has been an important player in helping the defence to reduce and dispose of buildings and structures that they no longer need. This is the way capital released for operating purposes. A defence of conversion also requires the conversion of the building mass in order to be appropriate and not least to ensure operational capability. When you talk about Defence Construction, it's just often talking about barley. But it is important not to lose sight of what is the basic and most important rational for Defence Buildings and the entire sector, namely to contribute to the defence capability and to enable the Defence to solve its tasks. There must be a guiding principle for all activity, even though the distance in daily life may be long between controlling the temperature of an office and gaining operational capability at the other end. Defence buildings manage enormous values on behalf of the community and for defence support. The total annual turnover is 6.2 billion. kr. Over the state budget, it is the third largest chapter in the defence budget – in 2013 totaling 4.9 billion. kr. For the defence, rents and payments for services such as supplies and clean-up to Defence Building represent 2,1 and 1,4 billion respectively. kr. All in all, it's 3.5 billion. kr – a significant share of government resources. So the importance of the activity is raised above any doubt. Then the question is whether you live up to your intentions – not least to the representative Rise’s clear expectations in 2001 about better service to the user and increased efficiency. The National Audit Office has had serious observations relating to Defence Buildings in Document 1 for four out of the last five financial years. It is particularly related to four areas: firstly, the management of the branch, secondly, the unvisited internal efficiency improvement, thirdly, the acquisition of operations and maintenance that are not in line with laws and regulations — and this is very serious — and fourthly, and most seriously, negative developments in the maintenance of the defence sector’s property, buildings and installations. It has direct consequences for the user: the defence. From Document 1 for 2011–2012 I quote the Riksrevision: « analysis of the property stock over the period 2004-2010 shows a negative trend in the condition and an increasing maintenance set-off.» [[...]] Defence buildings were unable to demonstrate increased condition-based maintenance. There were deficiencies in the calculation and billing of rentals and: «significant operational and maintenance acquisition weaknesses and breaches of the public acquisition rules.» [[...]] In Document 1 for 2012–2013 there were no new comments, but I quote: ‘The Ministry of Defence has put in place a number of measures through the governance dialogue and follow-up of Defence Buildings, but notes that it takes time for all measures to have an adequate impact. The case is followed up in the ongoing review.» There is reason to ask the question of whether today's organisation and practices are highly targeted to the user. The user is in this case the Defense – as the only user. Examples may indicate that this is not the case. We hear about departments that have to park the vehicle outdoors, because they do not have the funds to pay the rent that Defence Building requires for the garage. The Committee was just before Easter on a visit to the Gardeleiren and received, among others: to hear that for several years there have been requests for their own sanitary facilities for women. It seems to be an almost invincible task, which makes you have some challenges associated with it in the Gardelier. We hear about arbitrary and large rentals that it's almost impossible for users to find out what's behind them. There may be price increases on services such as cleaning that can completely overturn an already tight operating budget for a department. Most seriously, it is when defence workers and their families experience discomfort, illness and health damage in an environment that should be safe: their own homes. This is because Defence Buildings do not follow up necessary and required maintenance. This, in addition, is costly, since it is then necessary to enter the private market to rent dwellings. We also have examples from several places in the country, where defence homes are being cancelled, and where private markets and rents are going on. This concerns, among other things: about things like molding and moisture, and things that can help make both the defense workers and their families sick for long periods of time. It shouldn't be like that. It is also one of the areas where defence builders themselves say that there is reason to take self-criticism. In this respect, I would also like to refer to my question to Minister of Defence Barth Eide, at that time, last April, about the nature of the housing stock of Defence Building, and not least repeated violations of the Defence's own housing directive. In reply I received: ‘As the manager of the defence sector’s properties, defence buildings shall not rent out dwellings, or build other dwellings, which are in such a constitution that risks to life and health may arise.’;» No, I guess it should be missing. So there is no disagreement about the principle, but after ten years and in the light of the feedback received from the main and sole user, the defence, based on the assessments of the National Audit Office and some rather unfortunate media issues, it should be a willingness to look at whether the implementation of the principle and how defence building actually works today are optimal and in a way that serves also overall defence policy interests. There are many skilled employees in Defence Building, and they do a very good job, but they have a framework to deal with that which is bad for the user and the service to the user. To begin with, it's a bit of a banal: the organisation and the management. The number of persons employed is increasing, while the number of square metres is falling significantly. Defence buildings have no less than 17 communications consultants, so there are more than just the Ministry of Defence, the Chief of Defence, FOH and the FFI together to believe what's on the Defence Building website. We have seen a media survey on the rental of 170 hotel rooms at the Grand Hotel and internal welfare costs that are closer to ten times higher than the recommended rates. Clearly, it creates a significant reputational problem. We also experience that it takes a very long time to get answers, and not least that if you get answers, it takes a long time to correct – if things are fixed at all. And then some suggestions for more substantive changes: Why is there a lack of funds for ongoing maintenance when this is a significant part of the rentals paid for? Would there be gains to be gained by looking at the financing models for building to the Defence and letting Defence Buildings that State Buildings can raise loans or, if necessary, change depreciation rules? Is it possible to resolve some of the unfortunate consequences of a monopoly situation by separating the ownership of EBA from the operation and management and open to competition in operation/management and services where possible in view of the specific concerns of the defence sector? Should local managers be able to manage their own EBA and infrastructure to a greater extent than today? Overall, this poses a series of issues which brought together opposition parties in the setting of the long-term defence plan, asking for a comprehensive and thorough external evaluation of the current model of defence construction and EBA management in the defence sector and its implementation, with a view to improving deliveries in line with the needs of users. It is tempting to give government parties and councils a chance to consider a constructive proposal, which I believe is important in a still modernized and converted defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1124	I will respond to this interpellation with two messages. One is that the management model for properties, construction and civil engineering, EBA, works well. The second is that there is always an improvement potential in the application of the model. The establishment of defence structures and the introduction of a forward-looking and modern governance model for EBA in 2001 have been a key prerequisite for the successful conversion of defence. It is also a crucial condition for the further modernisation of the defence. The model is based on three key principles: cost-effective rentals, cost visibility and clear role-sharing between actors. The role allocation is based on the Ministry of Defence that owns, the Defence and other agencies in the sector as users, and the Defence Buildings that manage. The management model shall include, inter alia: contribute to: a targeted interaction that contributes to the efficient and rational use and management of EBA by the owner, uses and manages greater freedom of choice for the user in the use of resources by better prioritising the different inputs in order to resolve their tasks and achieve their objectives of ensuring that the conversion of the business can be carried out in an appropriate manner and that the desired gains can be taken out as quickly as possible. Defence constructions can show good results in a number of areas. Land reductions, as also mentioned in the interpellant, have been close to 2.5 million m2 in the last 10 years. The efficiency of defence-building services, reductions in building mass and the economic downturn in energy consumption in the sector have combined over 800 million. kr in annual operating savings in the Defence. This is more than it costs to operate the entire frigate weapon in 2013. In addition, the disposal of the property stock for which the sector is no longer required has given net revenues to the defence sector of a size of 3 billion. kr. These funds have also made a significant contribution to the conversion of the defence, including: to all necessary investments in new material. In addition, defence buildings have provided a number of new buildings and installations to the Defence that create good conditions for the development of operational capability. It shows not least the grand change of the Army. A continued significant focus on the safe, sound and cost-effective management and development of the building stock of the sector will also be crucial for the implementation of the new long-term defence plan, including, inter alia, the development of the sector. the establishment of a new fighter base on Ørland. Defence construction also plays a central role in climate and environmental work in the sector. In the field of energy, efforts have been made since 2006 to reduce electricity consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. By the end of 2011, this investment had reduced defence energy costs by more than 100 million. kr every year. Work continues on measures of a further 15 pst. reduction in energy consumption up to 2016. Our fastenings are an important part of the Norwegian cultural heritage and today appear mainly as well maintained facilities available to the public. It shows that the defence sector takes its responsibility to ensure important cultural memory values. Defence buildings, through their services to the Defence and cooperation with other state actors in domestic and foreign countries, have developed significant competences in the protection and protection of EBA against espionage, sabotage, crime and terrorist acts. In the autumn of 2012, the Government decided to establish a National Centre of Competence in Defence Buildings for the Protection and Protection of State EBA. Such a centre ensures State interaction and joint exploitation of resources, without changing established responsibilities and powers. The defence sector manages significant values for the community. The various services provided by Defence Buildings shall be carried out in the Charter of the Principles of Sound Management. For several years, defence construction has focused on a number of measures to further improve its management. It is therefore gratifying to conclude that the measures have been effective. This was confirmed by the National Audit Office’s audit of the accounts of Defence Building for 2011, where Defence Building received a final audit letter without any significant comments. In other words, defence buildings have achieved good results in all core areas of their activities. This doesn't mean there's still room for improvement. I record that the interaction between the user and the administrator does not always go squeaky. For me, this is an indication that there is still room for improvement, but at the same time an indication that the role allocation between actors is working. The management model has shown what it actually costs to use construction and property, which previously was not part of the household outside the Defence Department. This gives a greater awareness of the costs of the Defence and the individual user. I believe this contributes to a healthy awareness of the use of Community funds. At the same time, it provides incentives for the user to impose requirements on EBA deliveries. It concerns quality, time and price. The defence shall be a demanding customer. For Defence Building, it is a crucial success criterion that efficiency processes do not go at the expense of the agreed quality requirements in the delivery to the Defence. This does not mean that Defence Buildings can comply with the wishes of all EBA users, or wishes for which the user does not have a budget coverage. On the other hand, I expect those deliveries that are given high priority from the defence side, which have been agreed upon, to be of sufficient quality and to be delivered at the agreed time. Here there are important challenges for both users and administrators. It requires clear agreements as to which deliveries are to be prioritised, clarified expectations of quality and time, and the willingness and ability to follow up any deviations through dialogue and within the framework of the model and contract works. These are also factors that are constantly being followed up in the Ministry’s management of Defence Buildings. Four main objectives are managed by the departmental board of defence. These are today: the close and value conservation management of the defence sector's properties, construction and construction of environmentally sound planning, construction and management of the defence sector's EBA performance according to the budget and cost-effective operation of its ability to manage properly. These objectives clearly lead to continued efficiency and qualitative further development of activities. I expect, and demand, that defence builders continue to improve their efficiency, while following up that supplies are competitive compared to other property actors in the public and private sectors. I know that Defence Construction works specifically to develop the quality of its deliveries. What is agreed shall be delivered at the agreed time, cost and quality. The rental model facilitates increased cost awareness. This encourages thoughtful and sober solutions. I expect, and will follow up, that the culture of subsidiarity not only comes to light through the intended choices of the users, but also characterises the activities and priorities of the administrator. Through the new long-term plan, the government has taken the initiative to assess further improvements in property management. We want to see whether we can get even more cost-effective use of EBA at the disposal of the defence sector. I have expectations that it is possible to find further measures that can contribute to both lower costs and better EBA services. Defence construction has both been – and is – important for the successful modernisation of defence. Defence construction has produced results that have benefited the entire sector. I expect, and feel confident, that Defence Building will work purposefully to build on the experience that has been gained so far. This is in view of continuing what has worked well, but also in order to create further improvements in areas where there is a need to ensure even better EBA governance for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1195	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Defence. The defence is, as everyone in this room knows, depending on having a modern, well-managed and well-managed property and infrastructure, and not least good services to solve the tasks the Defense is supposed to do. Of course, it's especially important in today's structure, which is much smaller than it was, where not least the demands for response time and standing effort at the same time are much higher than they were before. In that context, Defense build plays a key role. That's why we're also dependent on it working. I think the Minister of Defence points to some issues that I think could be very suitable for the evaluation that the opposition wanted defence buildings to be submitted to. It is tempting to draw parallels to the debate that was right in front of this interpellation debate, about the government's lack of willingness to listen to proposals from the Storting, and perhaps especially proposals from the opposition, even if they are never so good. I had some specific proposals that I would like the Minister of Defence to respond to. It was the four questions I raised at the end of the interpellation: Why is there a lack of money for maintenance? It should not be in the model that was added, precisely because it should be included in the rent you pay. Second, would there be gains to look at the financing model, and, if so, would Defence Buildings, such as State Buildings, have the opportunity to raise loans? Is it possible to resolve the unfortunate consequences of the monopoly situation by separating ownership and operation, and possibly allowing users and local managers to control more of their own EBA? It is interesting as the Minister of Defence says, and it is also quite right that the defence should be a demanding customer, and make demands on quality, time and price. It's just that it's often difficult in a monopoly situation. What users experience in many contexts is that they do not listen to the needs of users, whether in terms of upgrading and necessary maintenance of defence homes, or to minor improvements that should be both simple and quick to implement in almost any other system. Only to underline, in the context of housing: it is serious when you break the Defence Own Housing Directive. Nothing has happened for a year – it has happened for many years, and it will continue to happen if you do not take this more seriously. Finally, the Council of State also mentions the fact that in 2011, the Riksrevision had no significant observations on the budget and the accounts. It was supposed to be missing, too. It may not be possible to cross the ceiling if the Riksrevision has nothing to report – that is what is normal. There is still a lot to be done with regard to the follow-up to the things that the Riksrevision has pointed out in four out of the last five financial years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1210	It is important to keep thinking about the role of defence buildings in relation to defence. It is also very important to stress that all priorities, all initiatives taken by Defence Buildings, for example, should be taken into account. building new barracks, setting up baths for women or men or whatever it may be, must actually come from Defense itself. It is always the customer who should give priority. This does not mean that Defence Buildings are not to operate maintenance. It is not at all that I have to defend everything that is always done, and that is precisely why I also say that having a good dialogue between the defence as a customer and Defence Building is absolutely essential for this model to work. But the fact that there are things to improve doesn't necessarily mean that the model is bad. Then you have to take care of the things that don't work, and do something about it. I think it's important to underline that. That's what the department does - we've done that, too. In my last term as Minister of Defence, Defence Building was under a government of its own. It's not anymore. The floor control is being followed up more closely, and of course it goes on a number of the things that the interpellant was about. In fact, as far as these questions are concerned, I believe that they are largely black, among other things. why you shouldn't be able to raise a loan. I believe that when the defense gets budgets, and we put long-term plans where it says where we're going to expand etc., that's a good way to manage, and it's also not good just to push these investments in front of it. We're always going to have money for what we add up to, what we want to spend money on operating in the future. That's also what's in the model. But we are constantly busy making improvements, and not least that the defense of course should be satisfied. So I would also say that there have been formidable improvements, not least with regard to EBA. Of course, all the time we're going to do more, and that's also in the long term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1221	Management and maintenance of public property is a social responsibility that cannot or must not be underestimated. I want to praise the interpellant, which addresses an important question. The main task of defence builders is to manage the state properties owned by the defence sector. I am not in doubt that there are projects carried out under the auspices of Defence Buildings that have been managed in a sound and efficient manner, but it is worrying when the Defense itself expresses concern about the quality of the services and the management done by the Defence EBA and the infrastructure. We have to take that seriously. In an article in the Evening Post on 5 December 2012, Vice-Chairman Jens B. Jahre in the Joint Organisation of Commandants, representing over 10 500 defence personnel, was able to tell of an increasing frustration among the users of the 13 000 buildings of the Defence Agency in Norway for which the Defence Building is responsible. In 2002, 1,800 annual works in Defence Construction were responsible for 5.8 million. m2 with building mass. In 2005, manpower was down to 1,249 years old and the building mass was just under 5 million. m2. In 2012, however, Defence Construction was responsible for 4.3 million. m2, i.e. 700000 m2 less than in 2005. Nevertheless, there are now 150 more people employed to do this job. At the same time, users tell us that their everyday life has not improved. It might not be so strange when we look at the number of communications consultants employed. There won't be much maintenance of the work they do – as an example. Another recent example is from Ørland Air Station. Defence construction has received strong criticism for having spent more than 10 million dollars there. kr on the refurbishment of temporary set-aside. The renovation took five years, but the buildings probably had to be demolished. This is an example of poor public funds management that we cannot be familiar with. The interpellant said that the committee had been on an inspection in the Gardelier, and I must say that as a former gardener I see that the world has not gone forward. I was in first - time service 20 years ago. Even then, we had female guardians, who did not have their own facilities. When I was on an inspection there with the committee just before Easter, I registered that nothing has been done with it – 20 years later. This is, to say it a little bit cautious, quite strange to register in a society that is very concerned that everyone should be cared for in an equal way. It is therefore important that we see that the Council of State is a little aware of what can be improved and how to improve it. I noticed the Council's answer to the interpellant's questions here. She said everything was fine, but that there was room for improvement, but what improvements she was going to make, I could not record any answers to it. It worries me. It is therefore important that the Council of State and the Ministry now take concrete action to improve the situation out there, and that the distance between the perceived situation and the use of public funds should be expected to decrease over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1250	Our defence spokespersons are on a foreign mission for NATO, so we can thank those who are signed as a poor substitute in this debate. As pointed out, the establishment of defence structures and the introduction of a management model for property, construction and civil engineering have been part of a major shift in defence over the last ten to twelve years, a transformation that has given us a modern, high-quality response defence with good operational capability – in fact, the most extensive transformation ever made in the public sector – a long-standing and extensive renewal work and major structural and organisational changes. It has called for political will for demanding decisions, and it has called for long-term planning and defence efforts. The management model has produced good results. The Minister of Defence explained to them – 100 million. NOK 800 million in an increase. kr in annual operating savings, 3 billion. NOK in sales income. This is more important than old examples of outboard tanks and the empty garage. The important thing about this model is that it actually shows what it costs to use construction and property in the Defence Departments, which the departments have not had to deal with in the same way as before. It shall provide and have provided greater cost awareness throughout the Defence and individual departments, while providing a sound awareness of the use of Community funds. Overall, these are the positive aspects of the establishment of defence buildings and the management model of the defence sector's property, buildings and structures, as the interpellant also highlighted. There is no disagreement, as far as I understand, in this debate that this has been a proper model and that it has produced good results. Then there are defects and faults and dissatisfaction from the users. Of course, it should be taken seriously, and I assume that Defence Building does so in the ongoing dialogue with its users. The Council of State also underlined this. But what was it like before the reorganisation? Did the Riksrevision then have any similar investigations that could reveal the condition? Did the users – today’s tenants and users – who were responsible for it themselves, have anyone to complain to? It's also important to bring with us, not as an excuse for what's not good enough, but as an important perspective on the state, given how we can progress in improving it. It is important to bear in mind that no model of an organisation such as the Defence – where the key elements of the organisation are transverse, such as construction and facilities, such as equipment, such as personnel management, which can either be organised jointly or in each defence – eliminates the need to think completely; any model requires that one also use his head. If the individual department of an organisation is too one-sidedly occupied with its own tasks without a glance at the whole of which you are part, the results will not be good enough. It's a leadership responsibility to avoid this kind of outcome with the management model we're discussing here. I believe that this is a basis for saying that there is a lot of evidence that the defence has succeeded so far, even if there is a reference to defects and defects that need to be corrected. There will always be room for further improvements, and it's important to have a look at unfortunate outcomes. Many experiences from the changes in defence in the first few years were, after all, anything but good – not least, financial management was miserable, references from the National Audit Office were diverse and the needs for stronger political governance were great. That was also some of the reasons why, in our first government statement, Soria Moria I, in 2005, we underlined that we were going to review the experience of privatisation and tenders and horizontal interaction in the Defence. There have still been comments on Defence Construction in four of the last five years, but not in the last. This shows that you have the ability to learn from pointed defects – I assume from tenants and users as well as from the National Audit Office. Improvement and conversion have come to remain in Defence and in the public sector in the future. The defence has shown great ability to do this and also to deliver efficiency in the long-term planning periods we have behind us. I think the best change comes from within the organisation – done by the organisation itself. I have more faith in it than in a so-called independent review. I've been in the last part of my former life in the private sector. It gave less effect than if we did it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1271	I have listened with great interest to the debate on Defence Buildings and on how Defence Building has been an important, yes actually quite decisive part of the completely necessary and correct conversion that has taken place in the Defence. However, what I think is a little strange in this debate is asking questions about whether, after so many years, there is a need to evaluate a model where everyone agrees – and it should just be lacking that not everyone agrees – that there will always be opportunities for improvement. How can improvements be achieved in a better way than by carrying out an external evaluation of a model whereby defence construction, which is in a very special situation, has one customer and is therefore in a monopoly situation, makes particularly strict demands on the way things are done? I believe that in this debate there is reason to remember that this is much more than defence building; this is about the total defence capability we are left with, with the resources deployed to achieve the best possible defence. The creation of defence structures in their time and the model that was then chosen was without doubt correct. It was without a doubt right. A number of factors suggest that this has been a successful model choice. However, the need for evaluation and the need for improvement cannot be measured by pointing out that the Riksrevision has said less and less in recent years. Of course, it's also positive, but what I think is important here is that you listen to what one customer in many ways has so clearly said, that there are significant deficiencies that need to be improved in the relationship between this one customer and Defence Building. So it's the defense that says this, which is at the pointed end and is going to produce the defense that we're all engaged in should be the best possible at all times. Then the way Defence Building and Defence operate together is particularly, very important. That is why I think it is right to repeat that this debate is not about the model. It is about how to ensure that that model is even better for the future and can provide even better service to the only customer and thus achieve better management of the overall resources – and perhaps most importantly: improved defence capabilities. Then I can't see that a better result is achieved through an evaluation after so many years, taking seriously the points that then come up to make improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1284	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank you for the debate. Then I would also like to point out – what to say – historically interesting things, that the opposition's proposal in connection with the long-term defence plan was voted down so to speak on the day eleven years after its establishment. We had a debate on 14 June last year, and the establishment took place through decisions in the Grand Duchy on 13 June 2001. As a conservative, I would say that it is a good conservative principle to change to preserve. There is no one in this room – at least of all I – who has said that we should not have a Defence Building or the principle on which it is based. On the contrary, I used a large part of my contribution to stress how important it has been in particular to make costs visible and become more cost-conscious, and not least to dispose of properties, buildings and installations that are no longer necessary, thus transforming the funds into operational capabilities of the Defence. It's absolutely crucial. At the same time, there are also many things that you have to do with. I registered that the representative Svein Roald Hansen thought we should ask what it was like before, during the argument that if they were worse before, it could at least be a little bad now. It kind of doesn't do that much. However, the reality is — and this is more serious — that if one fails to address the shortcomings in the implementation of the model, the whole model may be at risk at some point. Nobody wants to, and therefore it is important to make the necessary adjustments. Thinking that only an improvement should be driven from within, as the representative Hansen also had in mind, has been shown in the years that have passed, not to be enough. There is obviously a continuous discussion in Defence Buildings and between the Department and Defence Buildings about what can be done to improve, but it has not been enough to both identify and do something about the things that need to be done. Let me give you a couple of examples of what the challenges are. One is what we've been up to with what is suddenly experienced as arbitrary house rental increases, where the problem is that the costs really don't correspond to the level of the service you get. The second is how to pay so-called market rent. One example is from the Air War School, where both the Council of State and I have been frequent guests for many years. There is a building mass that comes partly from the days of the war, and for which market rent is paid as if they were brand new, but where there is no money for maintenance. It's a puzzle that users don't understand, that I don't understand, and that I don't think so many others understand either. I think it's necessary to look at why it's like that. There was no response from the Council of State to the question I asked why there was no funding for maintenance in this model. Nor was it the case that I proposed a completely new and radical model to raise a loan. It is only a question of whether it may be possible to consider doing the same for Defence Buildings that State Building already has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1297	Since Defence Building is an establishment, Defence Building does not have the opportunity to raise loans – to answer the last question asked by the interpellant. But after this debate, I cannot be left with a different opinion than that everyone agrees on the model Defence Construction. If everyone agrees on the model Defence Construction, I have to say that I do not understand why it should be evaluated. Neither I nor any other government would have done our job if you weren't in all the time looking at how to continuously improve a budget. It's not that we can sit and wait for ten years, so you have to make an evaluation and then you have to make improvements. That's what happens all the time. I told you about some of the changes that had been made, including: in the case of the ethos management, which has become much closer. You used to have a government, but you've gone away from it. Now you have a tighter level control. The whole point is that Defense Building is just a defense tool. It is a tool for the defence to achieve its objectives, and it is not at all such that the defence has not achieved its objectives in recent years. On the contrary, they do. Of course, I'm not satisfied either if it's not proper women's barracks and proper sanitary conditions for the soldiers, whether it's for women or men. Of course, I want that to be put in place, but it is always the case that the defence has to come to terms with what you should prioritize and what you give priority to. There is an incredible amount of maintenance work done. Then, of course, I'm not satisfied with what's not being done. It's a little difficult when you get very specific questions in a special field to answer that in the Storting, so we might have to get back to that. But the principle that I can say something about is that you work more with purchases, you work more with orders, for example. construction. In terms of energy savings, I want to see who in this country is better than Defence Building. They've done a hell of a job in that area. So it's like we can't completely ignore the Riksrevision, because the Riksrevision has given us a clue for years. I also have to say that I do not understand the claims made about the increased number of employees in Defence Building. According to my papers, the number has been significantly reduced from Defence Buildings was established. But all the time I'm going to promise that Defence Building will work to improve. It's for the defense's sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1310	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1324	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1339	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1353	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1359	The size is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1646	It is votered over I, § 3-3 b new fourth paragraph, new § 3-3c, § 3-5 third paragraph and § 5-1 first paragraph new third sentence and § 5-6 fourth paragraph no. 4 new second sentence. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1661	A vote shall be taken on the opinion of the Committee for the remainder of I and II and for III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1671	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1681	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e1689	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to come back with a comprehensive review and discussion of the legal and data protection challenges related to the collection by the control authorities of information stored electronically, including proposals to extend the obligation to provide control information to any third party, the relationship with the taushets rules, etc. must be re-assessed.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2665	It is first voted on the Committee's suspension to I New § 10-9 and § 11-1 as well as V.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2676	The Committee shall then be consulted on the position of the Committee for the remainder of I and II-IV and VI-IX. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2690	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2700	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2708	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is regularly asked, and already in the context of the revised national budget for 2013, to provide information on progress, results, findings, alternative solutions in ensuring that the handling of complaints and amending matters in the field of taxation takes account of both legal certainty and efficiency. In particular, the following points shall be disclosed: whether all members of the tax appeal board are required to have formal education and training in accounting, economics or law, or to have professional experience in the field of taxation. Assessment of changes in the pay-as-you-go system so that there is no negative incentive to raise a case. The independence of the review procedure for tax matters and the fair treatment of taxpayers, including the fact that no case handler in the tax office assesses himself in the appeal procedure, independence and the possibility for taxpayers to face up to, or bring their case before, the tax complaint. Moving the case preparations to the tax complaints from the tax offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2748	During the debate, Ida Marie Holen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a review and assessment of the elimination of excise VAT on services under the revised national budget in 2013.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2775	During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a productivity commission to find the reasons why productivity development has been weak and to advise the government on how to increase productivity. The Commission should also consider how the use of oil money can contribute more to strengthening productivity developments and thus provide a better basis for increased welfare. In drawing up the mandate, the Government is asked to look at the mandate of the Danish productivity commission. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2798	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2806	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2815	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e2823	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-02.ana.ud983e3074	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
