ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e59	They called the alternates, because the East-Agder counties, Line Vennesland and for the Busherud counties, Tone Heimdal Brataas, have taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President proposes that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e116	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e127	Enterprise policy is essential for important parts of our industry. It sets out the framework conditions for the supplier industry, the maritime industry, ICT, the wood processing industry and the food industry, to name a few. Enterprise policy also provides the basis for the activities of entrepreneurs, sole proprietors, fishermen and farmers. In addition, industrial policies also create conditions for innovation and research, which in turn means new value creation and new jobs. Norway has benefited from the financial crisis. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and we have a higher growth rate than the countries around us. Since 2005, 350 000 new jobs have been created in Norway and most of them have come in the private sector. Value creation has been high and active industrial policy has produced results. It is important that such a development continues. Then it must be further invested in the mainland industry. However, several traditional industries got a small shot for the bow with the food budget of the blue-blue government. It is just being cut in major mainland industries, in marine industries, in wood-based industries and in travel. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is constantly being reduced — small and large. At the same time, business services are also more expensive when, among other things, the fee for the Food Authority is increasing. Within the Ministry of Fisheries’s budget, specific measures are targeted at small actors in rural areas that are being reduced. It is probably an important distinction that local ownership, the viable fishing communities and fisheries as part of regional development are no longer a theme and that cuts in allocations are just building up such an image. Reduction in the lead grant is one of the examples that will have a very negative impact on coastal fishermen and the fishing industry throughout the country, among others. in trøndelag, where I come from, where there is not enough volume to survive without a grant to lead raw materials to installations. Despite strong disagreement on economic priorities in the commercial budgets, the Trade and Industry Committee is also united in its position on important messages. So far, the government's signals to agriculture have borne the mark of the need to flag ideological views high in opinion. It has not been clearly stated that these views have a majority in this Chamber. The parties to the Trade Committee have gathered on some clear signals to the Government on expectations of future agricultural policy. There are expectations of a policy for increased food production, for increased maritime supply, for increased recruitment — in other words, a expectation of predictability and long-termity in line with the agricultural message of the red-green government, presented last year. It is important, and it should be perceived as a clear signal and a guide to the government in its further work. At the same time, it means that a likely should stop sending out ideological test balloons, which are only suitable for creating uncertainty in the industry. The ownership held by the State in different companies should, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be maintained at about the same level as today. The State should be an active, long-term and predictable owner — while we are supposed to have a role of ownership and ownership that is adapted to the different companies. But now, when the new government unquestionably adds up to selling all the shares in Entra and Mesta, it cannot be seen as anything but a part of a new ownership policy. The remarkable thing about it is that it is done without any prior assessment. Before any sale in Entra, it would be natural to review the property portfolio. It would also be natural to present it to Stortinget as a matter of its own. Let me also mention that a maritime ideological may think that the state should sell itself down, but in a country like Norway, the disposal of state ownership is not a time-critical issue. We are not a state that is in urgent need of money and thus has some time-critical need to sell the state's holdings. We can take time for that debate – which changes in state ownership actually deserve. We are also discussing today the proposals for changes in the 2013 appropriations in the areas of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries. The Committee is united in its comments on these issues, and I am therefore not going to go into the Committee's comments on the various proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e153	For the Right, competitiveness is a central concept when we talk about industrial policy. For the seafood industry, this is particularly important, for the seafood industry exports well over 90 pst. of what it produces in Norway. To the right, it is that when we are going to increase the competitiveness of business, we believe that research and development are an important component. We believe that industrial policy should facilitate research and development in the business world. We believe that tax havens and having capital that business itself can make use of are important. So business-friendly tax relief is a tool for us when we're going to increase competitiveness. We believe that infrastructure is important for Norwegian business, whether it is in the districts or in more central areas. Good infrastructure is an input for competitiveness. My question to the Chairman of the Committee Arnstad is: What factors do the Centre Party consider important to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e164	The centre party is also very concerned with the competitiveness of Norwegian business. It has been said many times in this room that there is a risk of a two-way split in the Norwegian economy, and that the mainland industry is more difficult than before. This is precisely why one is so surprised when the government chooses to cut down on important measures relating to precisely large and important parts of the Norwegian mainland industry, such as the forest industry, wood-based industry, the food industry and others. They are charged large costs with this budget. Among other things, the meat industry is charged high costs due to an increased fee to the Food Authority. Tax bills can, of course, be an important step on the right hand side, I understand that. However, this budget does not actually provide large tax havens for business. Most of the government's taxes go to people — not to business. Moreover, with mineral oil taxes and other things, part of the tax burden on business is simply offset.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e171	The representative criticised this government for cuts in agriculture – in Framework Box 11. The Solberg government has cut this post, but when I look at the setting, the Workers' Party and the Centre have actually cut further in Framework Area 11, agriculture. Can I interpret it as meaning that the Centre Party believes that there is room for even greater cuts in framework area 11 that is about agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e178	No, we believe it is important to continue to focus on things related to agricultural development, and we believe that part of the cuts proposed by the government were cut that put straight into important bets. At the latest today, we see this in connection with the investment in energy chips. That you immediately take away $30 million. kr from a bet, which is very important for the forest industry, is very unfortunate. It's the kind of direct investment we want to go further with, and we think it's a pity that this government has cut off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e183	The representative Arnstad spoke about the need for further investment in the mainland industry. I agree with that. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party are also together on a note on mineral nutrition, which says that we have to bet on it because it gives new opportunities, it's increased demand, and we've found good and effective methods. I know the Center Party as a party that thinks in generations, and also thinks that the precautionary principle underlies politics. My question is then: why should the precautionary principle not apply to maritime landfills?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e190	I think that I and the representative are quite in agreement with many of the stakes in the mainland industry, both in agriculture and in fish, and I think we have had a good committee job in agreeing on many of the leads associated with it. So I think we also agree on major investments in the field of mineral industry, but we do not fully agree with the requirements of the seabed. That's right. The Central Party seems to think that what the Left and Christian People's Party put forward is too extensive, too detailed and too bureaucratic. We do not disagree that demands should be made for sea depots, but we believe that the Christian People's Party and the Left in their comments today went too far in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e201	We are approaching Christmas, and Christmas trade is going its way outside this house even today, I think. It's decorated for Christmas, it's baked, and Christmas presents are bought for at least as much this year as last year. Soon it will only remain to wish each other a good Christmas and hope for snow to get a real Christmas spirit. But it is not easy to hit with forecasts – even for my great hero Kristen Gislefoss in the NRK. Rather, it is easy to predict what the economic image will be like in the new year. Would you like to increase the interest rate? Is the rate going down? As politicians, we need to create a framework for the new year that motivates and stimulates new start-ups, investments and safe jobs. We must have state schemes and a support apparatus that can help to develop new products and services in a flexible way, which will increase efficiency, strengthen competitiveness and stimulate inputs. The weather reports today show that the Norwegian economy has been the best. We clearly have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, we have a higher growth rate than the countries around us, and professional participation is high. There is great willingness to invest and create values across the country. However, the clouds can contribute to more demanding days as it is important to be well dressed to meet these challenges. During the financial crisis, the Stoltenberg government provided an active industrial policy with different packages of measures to keep the wheels running and build a bridge to new opportunities and better weather. The working party is concerned that it is easy to operate in Norway and that businesses can concentrate on creating values. That was also the starting point when former Minister of Industry – and perhaps I could call him ‘Minister of Simplification’ – Trond Giske started the offensive job of simplifying small and medium-sized enterprises. He set the goal of simplifying 10 billion. kr from 2011 to 2015 and had delivered 5.4 billion on 28 August this year. kr and implemented 35 actions. There were another 22 measures at the Council of State table. They can be taken further by the current government. It is also a little strange that the Solberg Government reports to Norway that the EU COSME programme, as a hand in dealing with the government’s own industrial rhetoric, uses words such as ‘growth promotion’, ‘increased competitiveness’ and ‘access to the international market’. For COSME, it shall be a door opener for small and medium-sized enterprises in the EU context, but also contribute industrially in third countries. NHO's Petter Brubakk also encouraged the government to reconsider this. There may be good reason why I got the answer from the Council of State in the financial debate. She said this was cut because it didn't work. But it's a strange explanation when the program starts in January 2014. You have to look well into the crystal ball, you have to know that it doesn't work! The Stoltenberg government was concerned about having an active industrial policy and focusing on industries that have natural advantages. Energy, environmental technology, marine, travel and maritime industries were five major areas of activity, and it may be tempting to challenge the Minister of Industry in this area: Is this investment that this government will also continue? In this budget we raised new clusters. The innovation of the Global Centres of Expertise has been of great interest to all parties. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to be clear when ordering Innovation Norway in this area. The funds set aside shall be used for this purpose. We also note that the government's proposal to cut regional development funds is part of reducing, among other things. support for different cluster programmes around the counties. We believe that is the wrong way to go. Access to capital is important for business. Export Credit Norway manages the State Financial Services Scheme for Norwegian exports of capital goods and services — i.e. State export credit scheme. The scheme shall help Norwegian exporters to compete on equal terms with other exporters with access to national export credit systems. In order for Export Credit Norway to provide funding, it is also necessary to provide guarantees to GIEK and one or more qualified financial institutions. Based on various enquiries from stakeholders who are customers of Export Credit Norway and GIEK, we believe it is important to look at the device that helps to further develop Export Credit Norway and GIEK as a competitive export financing scheme, and that we do not get a development that contributes to unnecessary requirements and burdens that create competitive disadvantages for companies. The state has large holdings in the business community. A general objective of the country's commercial ownership is that companies should have a good industrial development and that their invested capital should give the highest return over time. The Labour Party wants the state to be a major owner in strategically important parts of Norwegian business, and we believe that the State as the owner should be an active, long-term, predictable and professional player. We want to have a state ownership to ensure that important businesses and competences are maintained and further developed in Norway. The Labour Party will maintain strong public and national ownership at about the same level as today. So it's disappointing to see how the Solberg government with a pen stroke is putting up to sell all the state's shares in the two 100 psts. state owned enterprises Entra and Mesta, without any process or explanation other than the importance of private ownership. Is it really important to have private owners to operate and maintain our roads? At least it's not obvious to me. There is a great deal of concern about the two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy. I would also like to say that I am concerned that the government is increasing oil dependence. We delivered a package of measures to industries that needed help in a difficult situation, as the chairman of the committee said. The last package of measures came to the woodworking industry, the whitefish industry and the growth package for the continental industries — all to build up under the mainland economy. The right-hand side talked a lot about its concern about a two-part Norwegian economy in the election campaign, but did they have any thoughts about what kind of industries the second part consisted of, the one that does not benefit from the oil and gas activity? Take, for example: fisheries: the first thing to do is to remove the Marine Value Creation Programme, which was a targeted measure for the whitefish industry. Woodworking: The first government to do so is to remove what we have delivered through the innovation programme and the energy flexibility scheme, which were targeted actions for the woodworking industry. In the case of tourism, which has been given its own initiative through Innovation Norway and the National Pilgrim Centre, the government would also remove it. The melting plants lost the CO2 compensation scheme and got unforeseeable again, because first it was removed, and then it came back. If we are to do something about the two-part economy, we must have political will to support under-industries in countries that need it. An active enterprise policy is not created by fine words in the election campaign, but is shown by action when one has the opportunity to do something with it. Oil dependence has increased with today’s government, not least given the choice of increased oil money use rather than tougher priorities. This may prove to be a risk sport in the long term. The economy needs a responsible economic policy to secure jobs and to provide a stable framework for business. They need predictability and good dialogue with politicians who can take action when needed. A small parallel: when you are driving a car, it is a ‘must’ that you have your hands on the steering wheel. You take your hands away, it can go well for a short while, but you quickly live a little bit more dangerous. The same is true of industrial policy. I have been on many company visits over time, but I still have the benefit of hearing a business manager or a trustee who calls for a passive business policy. I include this in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e240	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e245	The representative from the Workers' Party mentioned that the Stoltenberg government had come with good packages during the financial crisis. This, of course, appreciates society as a whole and the Right. The challenge to Norway is the long-term competitiveness, and the representative will work for new investments and secure Norwegian jobs. We were really very little about this in the budget that the Stoltenberg government provided. We have also seen very little about this in the comments of the Working Party now in the Committee. The notes we've seen are clipped and pasted - they're critical to fix the clippings in the management, tools and applications. Then a Right and Progress Party owes them for using fine words in the election campaign and for being little action-oriented. We've cut $7.1 billion. kr in taxes and charges. On 8 November, the NHO came and said that the government of Solberg provided a budget that was a big saying for Norwegian business. Then my question is: For eight years, the Labour Party has chosen not to give priority, nor in opposition – why?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e252	It was a fairly broad composite post in 1 minute – it's important to get mass. I believe that for the Labour Party, it is important that we can contribute to an active industrial policy, where we have predictability, where we put a framework. When I mentioned in my post that we have invested specifically in five industries in the government, I thought we could take an example as a maritime industry, which has got its own strategy, where the government has laid the framework conditions for that industry that has worked. Various measures have been put in place, and the industry has been given predictability. What they screamed after before we got into government was that it was very much unpredictable to deal with in the previous right-wing government. I think predictability is important. An active industrial policy is also important, but the commitment to education, research and development, and that in this country, the Stoltenberg government has also been very active in contributing to – and the industries themselves do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e259	In my last line – to the representative Arnstad – I was concerned that the Workers' Party and the Centre have cut further, i.e. that they have cut more than the draft budget they themselves presented. It was about agriculture. In the framework area 9, industry, the Workers' Party and the Centre have done exactly the same thing. In other areas, which do not relate to industry but to other disciplines, they have also done exactly the same – they have cut more than the budget they themselves provided. Can I then interpret it as your view that the Workers' Party and the Centre felt that the draft budget of the Stoltenberg II Government was unrealistic and unrealistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e266	I think that it was very unprofessional and perhaps difficult to deliver what the representative's party said in the election campaign, so you might have run a little bit in your arm and thought you had to be a little more realistic after you got in position. Let me say that in terms of agricultural policy, we have had an activity there in terms of increased food production. It has also helped to increase farm incomes — it has also occurred in the media in recent days — and it is important to continue to have good support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e273	In Norway we have approx. 900 million cubic meters of forest. While the representative Botten and I have grown up – since the 1960s – we have doubled it. We cut off approx. 11 million cubic meters per year. If we raise our eyes a little bit and look at Sweden, we have 30 pst. Of the resources, but we only use 10 pst. cropping, and we only have 3 pst. investment in relation to what is held in Sweden. The representative spoke about Stoltenberg's four important areas of business policy, and forest was not one of those areas. But the representative was in the woodworking industry and the package that came there today. When it comes to that package, it remains to be seen whether the investments – mostly in the north – yield some returns. I guess we haven't gotten that far in terms of the timber transport. My question is: Is the representative satisfied with the effort made towards wood and wood in the last eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e282	Now it is that development in that industry has been demanding, and after the Labour Party and Government dialogue had with the industry, we also presented a growth package to the wood industry. I think it's the wrong way to go and reduce the investments that were made then, by removing the energy fission system – that you just take things away instead of building up under the industry that we arranged for. This is also a complex industry, so there are many different measures that need to be taken. It is difficult to get to that industry and make it go on the rails here in Norway. As politicians, we must be involved in this and build up under it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e287	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e290	I have to say that I am impressed, and I am not alone – the CEO of the NHO said that the new government has made changes to the state budget that are important steps in the right direction. She aimed at investing in nutrient research, transport, knowledge and growth-promoting tax incentives. In just a few days of intensive work, it was possible to increase the appropriations by 1.5 billion. kr. There are things that matter to the business community. I think the debate today is going to reflect how different we look at the world. We've already seen that in the two main posts. When Else-May Botten places emphasis on predictability – well – is there predictability that there will be a deterioration? The red-green government did not address the two-way problem, our competitiveness challenge, or the derailment of productivity in Norway in relation to cost levels. Former Minister of Industry Giske did not blink when he said it was not worrying that we are not good at innovation, nor did he thank us for having had negative net investments in the traditional industry and mainland Norway for the past four years. It's quite remarkable that you didn't notice that this was the main factor behind us getting more and more standing on one leg, that's the oil. We also see an example in today's business today, with export credit. The export credit in Norway was an area in which the Right-wing government hunted from shoe to shoe in order to get at all something that worked. The representative Botten now stands out and does not take responsibility for his own policy, but tries to transfer responsibility to a new government to find the solution to any bureaucracy problem created by the Workers' Party. That's pretty special. The Economic and Social Committee is concerned with three government councils, all of which have expressed quite high ambitions in their field. In the nutrition sector, these are the challenges I've already faced, with two-way business sharing and reorientation. Today, there are powers that Mesta and Entra will be sold – these powers will be given to the government. It's important that the state is owned in many places, but we need a clear strategy behind ownership. Here the government has notified a notice of ownership. I also believe that a strengthening of private ownership will have a big place in the ownership message. A travel life message is also notified. It's an industry that's hit to those degrees by bi-divide, but that has a great potential in it – we know that. It is, and has been for a long time, a mystery to me why it is important for the red-greens to discriminate against private Norwegian local ownership. That's what you've done by tightening up property taxes, especially on ownership. So it's good to hear that the committee chairman is also concerned with local ownership, because we haven't seen much of that in the last four years. For me, the private, diverse ownership is very central to creating new jobs and investing in innovation and innovation, and we need to build up under it. Competition policy is going to be very central. Unfortunately, competition policy does not have very many strong champions when it comes to individual cases. It has special interests. It is extremely important that we have strong competition supervision that has an independence from political processes. With regard to trade policy, we have happily seen that there has now been a solution in the WTO. It's a very good step forward. It brings me in and out to the ostetoll – because it is possible that we were allowed to do what we did. But for a small country in an open and large world, which has a lot of its well-being based on trade, it is simply not the way we treat our trading partners. It brings me to agriculture. We have an agricultural minister who has got a very fresh start. We know that the Riksrevision has pointed out that the instruments of agricultural policy are many, they have some very conflicting effects, and there is simply a need for a clean-up and a critical review of all of them. So here I look forward to a real dune lift. Fishing is a strong industry, it manages a very good resource base, and aquaculture is just a dream for the nation. So we have a lot of interesting things to attend to. We support what is the foundation of Velferds-Norway – to ensure that, when we are to have a well-being at the top of the world, we also have a business that has framework conditions and opportunities to evolve to the best of the world. It shall provide the Economic and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e311	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e315	We have been told for eight years that it is the red-greens that have caused us – described by the representative of Gundersen – to have a most catastrophic situation related to the fact that we are too oil addicts and have a two-thirds of the economy, which he chooses to focus on in many rounds, including in his post now. It is a major challenge for Norway, including those parts of the country from which the representative Gundersen and the undersigned come. The government has spent two months sitting in offices and creating its alternative budgets, and through the weeks that have passed, has chosen to increase oil money use in 2014. In order to get to the oil money as quickly as possible, we have also chosen to increase the use of oil money in the current year. Are we becoming less dependent on oil money, as the government has now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e324	Yes, we're less dependent on using the money properly. We cannot deny that we are a very fortunate country, and the oil fund is growing faster than anyone ever imagined. We know that even with the small increase of the government, we spend percent less of the state pension fund abroad than we've ever done, at least lately, where the oil fund has become so big. I think – and I think that the representative of Storberget should write behind his ear – that when the money is spent on what they were originally going to spend on: growth-promoting tax reliefs, knowledge, research, transportation and that kind of thing, the markets don't react negatively either. If he has come along, he sees that no one has criticised or stressed that there is a slight increase in the use of oil money. We're going back to actually promoting Norway's competitiveness, and I think the government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e335	The representative Gundersen looks dark on the business world, and was in the article concerned that we are more and more standing on one leg, namely oil – and bi-dividing. The question then is: why is the government so strongly cutting into important and vulnerable schemes for the mainland industry? You have to ask yourself that question, if you really think this is a problem. An example of this is the so-called "energy tile scheme", which is now being phased out – 30 million. kr. There is a system that has been tidalising the extraction of forest chips since 2009. You're in the middle of building a value chain, and here you take away 30 million with a pen stroke. kr. The industry is surprised. There are far more applications than there are funds available, and they believe that there is little predictability to resolve them that way. Does the Right and the Representative Gundersen think it is good enterprise policy to stop a scheme in the middle of building a value chain in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e344	I just want to correct the representative a little bit. I don't look at things darkly – I look at it lightly. We've got a new government, which has the right focus, so now I see the light on things. It's been the last eight years I've been a little dark in predictions, and it's basically been right when we look at evolution. So for energy chips. That's very interesting, because it's become a pretty big market. The nation wrote that it had become approx. 900,000 cubic metres. That means that we support each tile cubic metre with between three and four ears per kilowatt – so I think the government is quite right that this has become a value chain that can actually stand on its own. The representative Arnstad knows that this is primarily a cultural landscape subsidy, it is not something that goes to professional forestry and the traditional woodworking industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e353	We have now conducted an election campaign in which the Right has claimed that SV in particular has been responsible for Norwegian Forest's misguided investment strategy in paper, and that this is why forestry has gone badly in Norway. Now we are also told that a representative from Hedmark, who even owns a forest, does not see that the energy fission system is incredibly important for the forest industry. It believes at least the two major forestry organisations in the interior, namely Glommen Skog and Mjøsen Skog. The head of the Mjøsen Forest says that the grant has been decisive, and that many will now drop. It's serious, because there's a lot of jobs, and it's an important part of the climate deal. Eight of the fourteen TWhs that would come from bioenergy come from energy chips. When many now say they want to lay down, will Gundersen turn his point of view and listen to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e362	Well, we'll see if it's right that they want to go down. It's, as I said, become considerable volumes. They've grown strong. I believe that any value chain in Norway should have the goal of standing on its own. I think we may have succeeded in getting a new value chain on our legs. Then we'll see who's right. I believe that the actors – I have also said that to both of the actors mentioned by the representative Andersen – should instead focus on finding out how to stand on your own legs instead of leaning on an energy tile scheme, and it has always been an intention to start a new value chain. And once again, there is mainly support for energy measures and cultural landscapes – and that’s important enough – but it has nothing to do with Norwegian timber processing. I have to remind Karin Andersen that Norwegian woodworking is actually much more than just Norwegian Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e371	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e374	Norway has never seen such a deterioration in competitiveness as in the years since 2005. Every ten kronor invested here in the country is placed in the mainland economy, while the rest is invested in the oil industry. There has been no such low level of investment in mainland Norway since 1970, according to the NHO. The employment rate has been on a downward trend since 2008. It's Chief Chef Steinar Juel in Nordea who says it, and it's built on a report that NHO has made. That's the legacy we got after the red-green government. It is also the starting point of the Sundvolden Declaration – the cooperation and the declaration between the Right and Advance Party government parties. There are a lot of grips that need to be taken. A great deal of action is needed in most areas, in all industries, in all sectors. This takes time. Until now, the government has been short on time, but I am very happy that the government is really running in this area. Business is complex. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the very bearer of Norwegian industry. What's a fact is that over 99 pst. by enterprises in Norway have 100 or fewer employees. They're the very bearer of District Norway, and they're the ones that keep business going in many ways. Then this is with simplification one of the most important handles the government can do in that way. That is why I am pleased that there is a large majority in the Business Committee – i.e. that there is an overall nutrition committee — which indicates that reporting requirements, form fields, legislation are burdensome to business. We're going to follow up the fading start that the red-greens had in this area – not just follow up, we're going to increase the rate significantly. And we see that the red-green will be on the move, as they write in the setting. In a debate like this, it's often that you might come up with a little bit of criticism of each other, but here I'll actually praise the red-green ones, who also believe that this government is going to do some real grip in this area. That's what the red-greens need. There are other industries that have challenges. One of these industries is the agricultural industry. There is no doubt that Norwegian agriculture and farmers deliver quality at a very high level — so high quality that they really tolerate international competition, if possible. It is an industry that is also regulated — and over-regulated, an industry that receives huge transfers. What you look at after eight years with the red-green government is really quite disappointing. There is a reduction in the agricultural area, grain area has been reduced, plant production has been reduced, etc. etc. So there has been an industry that has gone completely in the wrong direction. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture and the Government have announced a new course in agricultural policy, in order to meet the future in a good way. It has disappeared 1 800 years from agriculture. It might disappear more. But what's important is that those who remain get such a good environment that they get a robust and solid economy in terms of what you do, and that you also get a renewal and a rejuvenation within that industry. The fishing industry is, of course, very important. What delights me most about the fishing industry is the formidable investment that has been made in transport. No matter where you are talking to the fishing industry, transportation is the first theme to be launched. Having a government like both rates this year, which is going to make a strong contribution to transport in the years to get the fish into the market, is going to be among the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e392	There was something the representative was very little about in his post, about travel. But the representative, Gundersen, was in on it and said something about the importance of it, and I would like to ask a little about that. The world's finest and most spectacular cycle, the Arctic Race of Norway, is marketed in Norway on over 160 channels, and it was a good marketing. It happened for the first time in summer. The representative of Korsberg, according to his own statement, has been busy in realizing this cycle, but we see that there is a sudden stop in the travel life effort from the government and from Innovation Norway, and regional development funds are also heavily cut in – just what was funded, among other things. this cycle. The same thing happened in the fisheries sector. Tax haven't been included. What is it that means that travel lives don't need drag anymore, and why is tax cut for fishermen not growth promoters, as it is claimed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e401	Travel is an important area of activity for this government. The last time I sat on the nutrition committee, I repeatedly suggested to the red-green government that they make a travel life announcement to the Stortinget. The government didn't want that. What travel life needs are 169 good ambassadors for travel life that are located around the country – so these are the big business representatives I'm talking about now. For tourism, it affects all disciplines; it affects justice, it affects taxes and taxes, it affects transport, it affects industrial policy – and that is what I could do all the time. That's why it's important to get a comprehensive travel life message, so that the resources you make available, the leaders you make available, the changes you make for your travel life, benefit the whole of your travel life. In this way, we actually see the whole country – including the Arctic Race of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e409	I feel reason to encourage the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party a little, because the legacy of the Red-Greens is that we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate and is that country in Europe with the second highest GDP, that we are the sixth best country to start business in, and that the value of the companies at the Stock Exchange has increased greatly. So everything is not so gloomy and so dark; it's very good. However, when one is concerned about the two-part division of the Norwegian economy and expresses concern about it, it is simply difficult to understand that the new government has chosen to cut so clearly and significantly in a number of measures affecting the mainland industry. In addition, one must also say that some of the tax proposals have, to put it mildly, had adverse effects. For example, cutting the inheritance fee has to be done. meant that very many individual companies are struggling with major problems. In my county, one indicates that 40 transfers have been accelerated before Christmas, precisely because one is to avoid the unfortunate effects of the inheritance tax that are contained in the government's proposal. Does the representative of the Progress Party think that this is a good business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e420	There is a lot that is good in Norway, there is no doubt about it. But it remains in politics as in sports too, that if you settle down on the fact that it's good, it just goes down. We actually have the ambition to do it better than the previous government has done. We should be so tough. We are pleased that this government significantly reduces the tax and tax burden, even in the case of the inheritance tax. Then it is clear that when you make changes to taxes, when you make changes also within taxes, it will have some effects. There I just have to refer to the agreement that the government parties have concluded with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that one should come back with regard to the inheritance fee in the revised state budget to look at the impact of it. We've received the exact same input that the opposition made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e427	The representative Korsberg and I come from the same part of the country, the same state, the same city, even the same island – and we live on the same football field. But in this room, we're pretty far from each other, maybe as far as we can get. Our part of the country depends on direct investment. These bets have the government now cut hard in. Some are removed completely, some are cut by one third, etc. As a patch on the wound, one in the village has moved over to the tax haven, tax cuts, but we know that this does not add to our territory and condition our particular amount. We know, for example. That when it owes wealth, only half of it will come back here in view of the population we have. This will favor the big cities. My question to the representative of Korsberg is: Does he believe that the loss of the bets that have been in our part of the country, with the patch on the wound that has come with tax cuts, will be positive for Troms?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e432	I wish the representative who comes from the same city and cheers on football as me could be a little more specific in the questioning. Clearly, when we have a government that has a formidable commitment to culture, it matters to Tromsø, and that matters to Troms. We took part in the same election campaign, and a lot of the themes that went back then were on the road, that is. lack of commitment to transport in the former Stoltenberg government, of which the representative Knag Fylkesnes’ party was part. So I'm very happy that we have a government that bets on Tromsø, Tromsø and North Norway. In the case of taxes and taxes, Nordics also pay taxes and taxes. If there is a tax cut and a tax reduction, Northern countries will also benefit. At least I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e439	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e442	The trustworthiness obliges us to ensure that today's values are managed to the best of the next generation, and that values are created that the next generation can benefit from. The most important thing that politicians can do is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation, so that business can create safe jobs, and that profits can be allocated to important Community goods. This is why, among other things: The increase in SIVA, which we achieved through the budgetary agreement here in the United Kingdom, is important. The same applies to the TAX FUNN scheme, which is a scheme in which each State krone increases R & D efforts in the companies by double. It is the future value-generating business that will bear the costs for future generations. We must therefore be able to look beyond today's challenges and next year's allocations and focus on future solutions: innovation, innovation and innovation. Norway should therefore be one of the most innovative countries in the world, for it is innovation and innovation that can drive Norway and the world in the future. One industry that has been renewed in recent years and also a subsequent increase in productivity is agriculture. With an annual productivity growth of over 6 pst. is unique in agriculture. But behind this result lies hard work, wise heads and innovative solutions, for the benefit of the next generation, for us as consumers, for the food industry, and also for farmers. The budgetary agreement is just supporting this development, with a record focus on agricultural innovation and development. We must have an agricultural policy that allows young people who want to enter the industry to dare to bet, so that the daughter, son or city girl can consider buying a farm – buy or take over from Mom or Dad. Today, the size of the population sends important political signals through a unanimous stance on key guidelines for agricultural policy in the future. I can refer to increased levels of self-sufficiency, increased food production, increased profitability, predictability and improved framework conditions, which are intended to do something about recruitment. This shows that there is a broad consensus on the support bars for Norwegian food production. There are signals from a unanimous increase today that are clarifyingly clear that there is no desire for radical changes in Norwegian agricultural policy. The fishing industry also plays a crucial role in Norwegian food production, value creation and employment. For generations, Norwegian fishing industry has had a major impact on our communities along the coast and on the well-being of our country. Sustainable management is essential to ensure that future generations can also benefit from these resources. The consideration of viable populations must be given to short-term nutritional purposes. That is why I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party in the budgetary negotiations with the Right and the Progress Party together with the Left was able to prevent tightening of the rules on the permitation of the fishing industry, which is important because the fish is not always in the right place at the right time. Breeding is also one of the strongest growing industries in Norway, and is perhaps one of the industries that will continue Norway after oil. At the same time, we see that the farming industry has had and still has some challenges in being sustainable. However, the farming industry also shows, at the same time as these challenges, the willingness to change. We see that more and more and better solutions are being used in relation to escape, salmon and waste. It is essential that such a large and massive industry should have strict sustainability requirements. Therefore, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I expect the Council of State to have a strong search light on this. This is Norway’s reputation, and it is a good management of wild birds. I think the most important thing we can do as today's politicians is to facilitate tomorrow's generations and think about innovation, innovation and entrepreneurial activity. That's where we have a advantage, and we have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e466	We see in the Sundvolden Declaration that the instrument and Innovation Norway will be reviewed. Here, emphasis will be placed on further developing instruments with the greatest innovation effect, and a warning that nationwide instruments in Innovation Norway will be given priority. District-based schemes are likely to be decentralised. In the view of the Labour Party, value creation and industrial development may be affected in large parts of the country. So my question is: does the Christian People's Party share this concern? The settings may indicate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e471	For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have good framework conditions for the nutrition industry centrally, but also locally. This is shown in the note in today's setting where we, among other things, writes that we see it as important that Innovation Norway has schemes that have ‘local ring-effects’. It is important that we have a business life throughout the country. I am very pleased that the budget we are now dealing with provides a huge increase in transport. We know that it is important for many companies to have good roads – that it is asphalt, that it is open – when, for example, the fish shall be presented. We know that's important to many of our businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e478	The Central Party fully agrees with the Christian People's Party that agriculture has skilled nutritionists. They are innovative and spend time and resources on their work, and they deserve stable, long-term and predictable framework conditions. I am therefore very pleased with the clear and clear signal that was given in the post of the representative when it was about what we have gathered in the setting, which I also think is very good. The Christian People's Party has played an important role in agreeing on the lines of agricultural policy and also sending a signal to the Minister of Agriculture, whom I see as quite clear. The Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party also agree on other issues, such as: to the agricultural agreement and other important structural aspects. What I'm going to have to ask the Christian People's Party about is: how does the Christian People's Party look at the government's eagerness to reverse the ostetoll, build down cultivated land, remove housing and nobility and eliminate price regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e485	Thank you for the question. For the Christian People's Party, it's very important that we get predictability. That's why it's the most important word, maybe, in our area of the cooperation agreement. I want to give it the answer to the farmers who a few years ago started up with a new business – whether there was sheep farm in Aremark, which is a wolf area, or whether they are the ones who wonder if they should take over after their father. It's predictability they've asked me to talk about for eight years. It's the most important thing. The Christian People's Party – and actually an entire committee position today – says that we should give predictability. Strict soil protection is important then it is important to have income for the farmers – it is essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e495	The Christian People's Party now has a great responsibility for having received a government with the Right and the Advance Party that is so clear that they want to reduce the state's contribution to Norwegian agriculture. In addition: I have read the Bondebladet with interest, where I see that the new State Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture says: ‘It is important for this government to reduce taxes and taxes. To get this done, it has to be cut elsewhere." It does not sound like a message that could come from the Christian People's Party. ‘On the agricultural side,’ she says, ‘there has been no major and dramatic cut, since most of it has been peaced by the agricultural agreement.’ Nor does it sound like a statement that could come from the Christian People's Party. The question is: does the Christian People's Party share these values, that the most important thing is tax-free, and then you have to cut elsewhere, and that it is important in the next round to cut the agricultural agreement, because then you can give even bigger tax credits?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e512	It's enough that it's the people who have given the country a new government by election September 9th. I am very pleased with what we say in the setting that we are now debating. There is an overall committee that says that profitability needs to be strengthened both through increased revenue and lower expenditure. Then I can also refer to the comment from the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left and what we mention: we say we have to increase the target price, we say that revenues can, among other things. are carried out through increased transfers ‘above this chapter’, and ‘this chapter’ to which we refer is settled. It's the notes and signals that these four batches in this room send to the government. I also believe that Andersen's representative can be a little calm: it's a new everyday life, it's a minority government that has to deal with Stortinget in a completely different way from the government you represented in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e519	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e522	Last week, the Minister of Finance was presented with the recommendations of the Holden III Committee. A unanimous selection is quite clear in its recommendations: the Norwegian economy benefits from a slowdown in the oil sector. Then we will avoid a steep fall in oil activity as the oil goes to the end, while the Norwegian economy is not as hard hit if the oil price falls. This is also the core of the alternative government budget of the Left. We want a brake on the oil sector. We want targeted measures to support those parts of Norwegian business that are not part of the oil and gas sector. We are talking about the marine sector, agriculture, travel and other industries and sectors with great potential for development. It's actually here. We are doing this both in the tax system, by strengthening the public sector in SIVA and in various schemes in Innovation Norway, among others. through better social arrangements for self-employed workers and a large-scale commitment to research, in particular the business-oriented. Targeted measures are necessary to counteract the bi-dividualism. If we are to reverse developments, there are a number of instruments that need to be implemented at the same time, and there must be real willingness to make Norway less oil dependent — a real will. That is the will of the Left. In addition, an economically responsible policy is very important. It is also a challenge the Left takes on the utmost seriousness. Marine industries – fisheries, aquaculture, the biomarine ingredient industry – and other industries based on marine living organisms have enormous potential in themselves. Numerous reports and investigations that have come to light in the last year — or one and a half years — are clear. This belief in the future for the marine sector also largely shares the Left. Therefore, it was positive to record that there was a broad political consensus in the previous enlargement now before the summer of the review of the report. St. 22 for 2012–2013, World’s Top Marine Mamate. The world's foremost maritime wonder, it's a vision that left-hand parts. Of course, it takes a lot of the marine nutritionists themselves to get this potential out, but it also requires a lot of us politicians. In particular, more attention needs to be paid to R & D — research and development in the marine sector. We need to invest more through Nofima, which we want to strengthen significantly, more research and other regional research environment, and not least we need to invest more in the Institute of Marine Research. Norwegian fishing industry, local communities along the coast and Norwegian economy would have a much higher value creation if we had given the Marine Research Institute more to route with, for stock research, for herring research, for mackerel research and for other species as well. There's no doubt much more mackerel in the ocean than the scientists catch. But we can't take the chance of taking out more of the population without having research efforts and research results that underpin the stock level, which, on the other hand, is the basis for quota determination – very important. The left is concerned that Norwegian fishing fleets consist of a solid sea fishing fleet and a solid coastal fleet, both large and small coastal. For many fishermen along the coast, it is far from the nearest fishing port. Especially the smallest fleet, the Sharkfleet. Therefore, leadership money and a well-developed network of reception stations are the key to making a real offer to the smallest coastal boats. I would like to see that we had more time in the budget, but this is something you have to be aware of when you want a robust coastal fleet, and when you want valuable coastal fishing resources to be exploited. It's a battle over the areas of the Norwegian coastal zone. Marine farming is one of the industries in need of land. In order to ensure that municipalities find it sufficiently attractive to facilitate breeding activities, the Left, together with the majority of the Committee, wishes to see the issue of the area charge for the farming industry addressed. We note that both the industry and the municipalities concerned agree that such a charge may be appropriate to ensure that municipalities receive a share of the value creation of fish farming. The matter is getting ripe. It is important to ensure that Norway remains a forum for a national agricultural policy within the framework of the WTO and other international agreements. All countries must be guaranteed the right to a national agricultural production, inter alia. through customs protection. In addition to producing food and wood, agriculture needs to play a more central role in meeting societal goals for viable communities, living cultural landscapes and natural and environmental goods. Therefore, the Left is particularly concerned with soil protection, and with stimulating increased organic food production. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e548	Time's up, and it's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e551	I respect the fact that this autumn the Left has had to conclude a budgetary agreement, that it binds the party's representatives in the Trade Committee, and that it has led the Left to have to vote for things that are clearly opposed. In a way, it's a little liberating that it's also shown in the setting, that the left there says they don't like the reduction that happens, among other things. the management grant. For it is that valuable fishing resources are not exploited because of the reduction of the means available, and then both leadership grants and grants to reception stations are important. My question is really a little forward-looking: would the Left be ours, i.e. the red-green parties – which is behind another remark – ally with future crossroads to increase the effort just to the kind of schemes that the leadership grant involves? This also applies to Nofima, who was in bed as a bet in the harvest, and I know that the Left too is very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e558	We will also be involved in good action together with the Senter Party, if that is the case. Now we have a foundation that we stand for. We have, through the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the two government parties, perhaps the most important basis for a positive development in the fishing industry, namely to ensure that the Moravia, Lofoten, the West and Senja do not become areas of oil activity. Then there are clearly areas in which we should have liked to have moved further, and definitely also in relation to the fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e565	In very many areas, I totally agree with the comments from the Left, and so far also from the Christian People's Party, in this setting. What's striking about the setting is that there's a rather striking distinction, I'll say, between what the Center Party and the Workers' Party write in their comments, and the Christian People's Party and the Left write, and, on the other hand, the Progress Party and the Right write. Here, there is simply some form of ideological separation, where the SV and the Left agree that nutrition rights, targeted measures are important for raising, while the new government believes much more in general tax cuts. How long will the Left sit and see that the bet going through the Business Committee disappear and that more will be transferred to the tax and tax bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e570	I thank you for the question. I also thank you for the approach. I think that's positive. Now it's like for the Left that we have the foundation that we have, with the agreements that we've concluded, and that's what's at the bottom of us. We will come back to this and we will ensure that the policies of the Left and the key areas of the Left will be restored in the cooperation that we are going to have with the government parties in the future, and in the cooperation we are going to have in the Grand Duchy. I choose to answer like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e577	The left's representative is from More and Romesdal, like me, and in the election campaign we talked a lot about the net pay system. Both were very much for the net pay system, but when we read the budget setting, we see that the left is not too much anymore. They have not been before, but in the election campaign they were very much in favour. So it's going to be 1.7 billion. kr that is in the pot. Now, the left hand position is to remove 1.4 billion. kr of it, so it's just a small coincidence that's left. In the notes, there are very long and good explanations as to why the Left does not want this arrangement, but I'm just wondering if the representative can tell me what has happened since the election and until now, since you were very much in favour, and now is very, very opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e586	There is nothing in the Left's electoral programme about the net pay scheme, either in one direction or another. It was opening up to discuss the net pay scheme, and that the net pay scheme was a topic that could be relevant to the Left. After working on the budget, it's not inside, and it's a process that's gone to the left, and that we're dealing with, we're in the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e592	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e595	There is a great deal of seriousness about this budgetary procedure. We are in the midst of a critical global situation, with the climate change that is raging, and here in the country, where very many have already been involved in this debate, we have a two-fold share of the Norwegian economy that can in the long run weaken Norwegian well-being and development. That's why I hope that this discussion is not just a rhetorical round, but that we take seriously the situation we're in, and that we can meet each other's arguments in a proper way. Let me start with the sea. The sea has our starting point for Norwegian growth, development, bustet, food, etc. for thousands of years. We've sometimes had a troubled management of the sea. Now we have one, in a global situation, good management of the sea. We know that Norwegian prosperity in the future will depend entirely on the sea, with the possibilities there, not just fishing, but aquaculture and exploitation of other types of species, even energy production, etc. There are great possibilities in the sea. In such a perspective, it's very special that the government is going to cut off heavily in the direct bets that are about the sea. Not least when it applies to the regions of the country that are closest to the sea, I think that a commitment to cutting heavily in regional development. One has just laid down the Ministry of Fisheries, one of the major cuts also in the Directorate of Fisheries, one of the cuts in marine value creation and in important development initiatives such as: cod in marshes – which I see as important bets. The fishermen are to be taxed harder, and leadership tips and line-line tips, things that would facilitate small boats along the coast, and that we know is important for the creation of value, are being cut. What does this tell us? Firstly, it tells us that the government does not take seriously its concerns about a two-way Norwegian economy. These are future industries. The other thing, I think, is an ideological shift that the government is putting up here, where one no longer believes in nutrition measures, but on decreases in the wealth tax or inheritance tax should be the rescue. What does this lead to? Yes, it will contribute to the cementation of today's industrial structure. It does not contribute to the development of the industries where there is no accumulation of large capital, but it contributes to the cementation of today's industrial structure. Nutritional measures are precisely built to speed things up that we want to grow in the future. A weakening also helps to make it the big cities, the big rich areas of Norway, that get the big growth, while regions that I come from, North Norway, will be losing here, because we have less of the wealth in the country and less of the inheritance, but we have the great possibilities that we need capital invested in, that are now being removed by the government. And not least: investing in a reduction in wealth and inheritance, and the kind of action, leads to fewer ownership. It's not the people along the coast who want to participate in the big growth cycle, it's the people who already have big capital. I mean, this is historyless. Norway at its best has just been about a commercial bet. The oil adventure is a good example of that. The economists went against it. They wanted general bets. It was the engineers who insisted that we do this. That's the same thing as the watercourse bet. Norway's best bet is on nutrition. It's not about raising through tax cuts. For SV, the most important future industries are aquaculture, bioeconomy, the ICT sector – often linked to the renewal of the public sector – renewable energy and smart industrial production. We have believed that it is possible to think smart industrial production in the future in Norway as well. But these things don't come of themselves. There is no such capital. Capital is largely owned and manufactured by the petroleum industry. In such a perspective, I find it alarming that the Left and Christian People's Party – as I see it – represents a different line than the Right and the Progress Party do, that they join this strategy, that they join what one might call a kind of nutritionally neutral line – which we know is anything but nutritionally neutral. I hope that in the future we will have a proper discussion on how we can develop the Norwegian nutritional potential, focusing on how taxes and taxes cannot contribute to lifting, for example. regions in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e621	The Socialist Left Party traditionally has little focus on business. For example, entrepreneurs and sole proprietors were not mentioned once in SV's approx. 120 pages of work programme two years ago. When you find out what SV often thinks and often suggests, there are higher taxes and taxes, while at the same time cutting investment to new and better roads – two areas that hit Norwegian business hard. Does the representative of Knag Fylkesnes think that it is a good business policy to charge more taxes and taxes from traders and to pay the roads in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e628	First of all, it's not true that there's nothing about self-employed people. It may well be that we have used ‘self-sustaining business’ over ‘founders’ and the kind of change in our program. We have a pretty big investment in our business programme, if you've taken the time to read the chapters. Firstly, we want to strengthen our ability to take risks for new entrants. We know there's a hole there in the Norwegian machine tool. We want to lift it. Secondly, we want to make it easier for self-employed entrepreneurs to take risks, for example. strengthening them with social rights. This I think is an area where I can imagine that the Left and Christian People's Party can also be involved. When it comes to roads, we want a development in which large road investments go away from cities, where cities invest collectively, but where one in the district is investing in roads. We know that to transport the large values from the districts to the markets, we need a good infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e637	It is not exactly a surprise that the Right and SV have different views on some things, but I simply fell off when the representative Knag Fylkesnes could claim that cuts in taxes enumerate the existing nutrient structure. If there's something we know, it's that the dynamics are enormous in the business world. Founders and small businesses, start-ups, are too much of the innovation and are responsible for many of the new jobs. Existing business rationalises. It is simply a strange connection, and I have never experienced a business leader who is willing to go on a torch for the regional development funds or that type of instrument. He's on torches for reduced taxes, increased traffic, increased investment in research and development. So I just want to ask, how long will it take before SV realize that business needs equity to be able to both make use of the tools and have the backbone to carry new initiatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e646	It was well done when creating SV. We've always believed that the public agency should be able to contribute capital to business, especially in situations where they have a good idea, but they lack capital. To do something about taxes: if you don't have any capital, it's not going to make it easier for the tax burden to do anything about the ability to invest. But there are many things the representative from the Right here takes on – for the first semester. If you have a question, for example: only people in the ICT industry think about what they are thinking about seming Norwegian business, they would say that the tools are too little occupied by them. Then they also say that the capital of Norway is too traditional, too much to commit to a property sector that has too good conditions, or in a petro sector that has too good conditions. It's obvious here that the dynamics that we're after are not good enough, especially if you're busy getting rid of the two-way economy in Norway. There's just not enough movement going on from... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e653	The representative of Knag Fylkesnes begins with two good comments on climate change and the two-part division of the Norwegian economy, and asks us to take these seriously and not just run rhetorical points. I agree, and that is why I want to take the representative seriously when it comes to these things. Furthermore, outside the post, the representative argued that one of the areas covered by SV will be bioeconomy. It's signed very busy. My challenge is then: What changes will we see from SV in terms of bioeconomy and investment in it also in the next four years, since SV, with eight years in government offices, have not been committed to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e660	I thank you for the question. That gives me a good opportunity to say a little bit about what possibilities actually lie in the bioeconomy. Norway, as the representative, Mr Hemdal, has been in the past, a lot of forests, we have a lot of wood. The question is, what are we going to do with it? Let's cook it, burn it, cut it, etc.? I think that the future is in a good mix of this, but where we're trying to ensure that there's an offensive technology development going on, so that this is not just a question of labour costs, but that a good mix of Norway has a high level of competence and good technology, the public tool uses it in the best way to produce these important industries, which we can find all over the country. So we'll come back to this bet, I can promise. Maybe we – SV and the Christian People’s Party – have something to talk about then.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e667	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e670	The overall objective of the government’s industrial policy is to maximise value creation in the Norwegian economy. It's our job to create a business that is sustainable, innovative, knowledge-based and adaptable. In the budget, we therefore rely on knowledge, the strengthening of nutrient research and the simplification of requirements and rules imposed on business by the authorities. The NHO Economic Survey was presented two weeks ago. This shows that the expectations of Norwegian enterprises for economic growth in the domestic market are now at a disadvantage since the financial crisis. The Norwegian Bank’s regional network also reported downgraded expectations of growth in the future. But in Norway, we still have a standard of living at the top of the world. We have high employment and low unemployment. The years following the financial crisis have been good, especially compared to the rest of Europe, which is still struggling with low growth and high unemployment. The government is taking seriously the concerns of the business community. Everything is not rosy in Norway either. Households are in high debt. The course helps somewhat, but parts of competitive activities face high costs. Therefore, in the 2014 budget, the government is proposing to strengthen the competitiveness of industry both in the short and long term. In the future, the government will facilitate increased investment in industrial innovation and research. This is crucial for our ability to create long-term value. Nutritional research and innovation must take place in cooperation between countries and businesses. The government also emphasises that Norway should have a stable and competitive financing and guarantee offer for Norwegian exporters. The State ensures this through guarantee schemes in GIEK and debt financing from Export Credit Norway AS. The government will also contribute to a simpler everyday life by simplifying the requirements and rules imposed on the authority. We want entrepreneurs, business owners and employees to spend more time on value creation – and less time completing forms. Targeted efforts shall be made to reduce public bureaucracy. Our objective is to reduce the cost to business — by complying with government-required reporting requirements — by 25 p.m. compared to the cost in 2011. The simplification work is well under way, and the government will follow it up. Norway will continue to have significant state ownership in the business world. The ownership must be managed professionally and predictablely, and the government will pursue a ownership policy that allows for ownership and value creation. The government will make this more concrete in a new ownership message, which we aim to present to the Stortinget during the spring of 2014. Enterprise policy is not designed in a vacuum in the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Financial and tax policies, knowledge and labour policies, transport and environmental policies – all of these areas set important conditions for business. Together with the many instruments of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the sum of these framework conditions constitutes the government’s industrial policy. From 1 January 2014, a new Ministry of Food and Fisheries will be established, which, in addition to the responsibilities of the current Ministry of Food and Trade, will cover fisheries policy, competition policy and company law. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is a high value-added industry. In order to contribute to further growth, the government will see even more industry in the context of the instrument and trade policy. This can help to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs and counteract the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. The government's draft budget in the fields of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries contributes to stable framework conditions and an active industrial policy that promotes Norwegian value creation both for 2014 and in the coming years. As announced in a letter to the Stortinget, I would like to make the Stortinget aware that the establishment of the Norwegian Design and Architecture Centres is deferred until 1 May 2014 and that grants to the two current foundations are covered by the allocation to the new Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e717	The recent signals from industry about a development in which export credit Norway AS is increasingly operating as an independent commercial operator in the market are something to be taken into account in the future. It is reported that the loan agreements have become more extensive and that there are more unnecessary adjustments and more and more fees. For schemes to be competitive, it is important that the Council of State engages in dialogue with industry. That's why I think it's very positive that the Minister of Industry was on Sunnmøre last week. I also expect that she there got a recording on this matter. My simple question is, how does the Council of State address these signals in terms of dealing with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e726	I have registered the essay in Today's Business today with a certain degree of amazement, I must say, as the questioner knows, I have traveled a lot around. I've been to the Møre region and the Bergens region and I've been talking to maritime industries. The question I always ask is whether our export credit systems are working. The answer to my question has only been yes. I have also in every context added to it that there should be views on this, as one might, for example. do not wish to attend plenary meetings, you are cordially welcome to deliver messages to us. We are prepared to take the signals seriously and go through the arrangements, but so far the feedback from business to me is that they work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e733	In its contribution, the Council of State was concerned about the need to strengthen nutrient research, and that industrial policy does not take place in a vacuum. Earlier in this debate, the government has chosen to cut support for COSME in next year's budget. What's the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e738	We've had some experiences. In general, we believe that many of the EU programmes are very good, and we are in it. But as far as COSME is concerned, there is a new programme in the same street as a previous programme we have been in since 2008 – a programme that is being shortened to SIP. It was about innovation and competitiveness. These are programs that business has only partly benefited from, and they are very expensive programs. COSME will, for example: It's $450 million. kr during the programming period. We are free to sign up, we can also participate through the programme we are already in, Horizon 2020, but our assessment is that the benefits of the programme to business at this stage are not proportionate to the costs involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e747	There is no doubt that this industrial budget from the government is a turning point in industrial policy, from an active and targeted industrial policy to taxation. It shows the business budget when cut in the wood industry, district travel, marine, whitefish and other fisheries and agricultural systems. And it's being replaced by tax havens. But of the 8 billion. I'm just going to have $0.8 billion. kr which is directly business-related. Then you get a mineral oil charge at the top – as an increase that almost zeros out again the 0.8 billion. kr. The government would say that we have removed the inheritance fee. However, this affects individual enterprises directly, and many speed up transfers because they have large losses associated with the removal of inheritance taxes. What does the Council of State think about the fact that some people think they can lose almost 500 000 kroner in waiting for the new rules from the government, and rather accelerate transfers because it has such a negative effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e756	In general, our assessment is that we have provided a very good budget for business. The feedback from the business community is very, very good in terms of the investment in commerce and the investment in tax cuts. We have to remember that 99 pst. of the enterprises have fewer than 100 employees. Two thirds – according to Serge – are family ideas. It is clear that the property tax and the inheritance tax cuts are important for business. Our commitment to research and innovation means something. The feedback's good. So it is that someone has reported back – I do not know whether I share the descriptions with everyone, these we get to go through – that depreciation rules as a result of the inheritance fee no longer have the same meaning. Of course, when the charge disappears, the depreciation rules also disappear. We're going to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e763	I would like to thank the Minister of Industry for the contribution. In particular, I noticed, as it was said here before, this with nutrient research, which I hope we'll get an even bigger boost gradually. Like what I pointed out in my post, last week the government received recommendations from the Holden III Committee, a sample where both LO, NHO and Works supported the unanimous recommendations. I think the sample pointed specifically at two interesting things. One is what I said in the post – that the Norwegian economy benefits from a slowdown in the oil sector, and that one will then avoid a steep fall in oil activity when the oil ends. The second is that labour migration counteracts bottlenecks in Norwegian business and economics, while helping to reduce the pressure on wages in several sectors. This is agreed by the Left. Is this something that is also shared by the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e772	The availability of labour – and skilled labour – is a demanding situation. It reports business from several sectors, so this is something we have to get back to, and we're set to look at. Of course, it also includes labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e777	I have previously tried to get a proper answer from the Minister of Industry to a question that is close to my mind. When this debate first takes off, we may well be so honest to say that there are no instruments in the Ministry of Agriculture or the former Ministry of Fisheries, which are important to this government. It is the agency located in the Ministry of Finance and, on the one hand, in the Ministry of Transport, which is, in fact, the important area of this government's investment. But it has its very negative rash. For my part of the country, North Norway, it's so that a tax bet, actually leads to money that could be spent on investments there, out of our part of the country. Then we end up in this situation: yes, there will be a little bit more effort on the road, but when a down-prioritizing focus on nutrition, the increase will not help much. One simply needs to bet on nutrition as well. My question is, does the minister see the dilemma in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e787	One of the places I've been visiting in the last few weeks is just Troms. I have also visited Hamar, for that matter. When I hear that nutrient research will only hit the cities, the answer to that is no. It'll hit the research park at Hamar, it'll hit the research park in Tromsø. I know that it's relatively evenly distributed, and the good ideas are distributed. The point is to have arrangements that make and that have a future ahead of them. It's also like 99 pst. of the enterprises have fewer than 100 employees. Two thirds are family ideas. This means that the property tax hits Nord-Norway, which means that the inheritance tax that is being removed hits Nord-Norway. Transport investment takes place in North Norway. North Norway is part of Norway, these measures are taking North Norway, and I think this is a very good budget also for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e794	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e797	I have used some of the first weeks of this session to visit some of those who will benefit from the optimism and predictability of the government has announced now will become fully involved in business. The two I want to draw from this speaker stand are two young farmers – Åsmund Nymoen from Tolga and Per Magnus Værdal from Inderøy – who have invested a lot in farm operations with both milk production and tourism, and who in many ways represent what we all want for us to become more mariner in terms of food. We're going to produce food, it's going to be better, and we're also going to create more business development related to primary industries. They're two excellent candidates for this. The reason why I visit them is primarily to test how things are now. Is it the case that there is more optimism about the signals we have received from the government regarding agricultural policy in particular? The answer is discouraging. The signals that have come so far from the government have not contributed to more optimism. They do not contribute to more people wanting to join this industry — rather, they are opposed to measures that facilitate leaving the industry. We can mention the case on a case that has come from the government related to primary production, and in particular agriculture — for example. customs protection. Is there one thing, as it is so far managed by the current government, that has contributed to more optimism in agriculture and that contributes to more predictability – that is, we know what framework conditions we have at any time and until the next year? The answer must obviously be no. To the question of soil protection: We saw the Minister of Agriculture going out when it came to concrete soil protection issues and, according to my concepts, created a new practice on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture, where people are the first to go out and almost open up to the full liquidation of valuable cultivated land, and in this way it seems that IKEA is the brake. The same applies to the agricultural policy signals and the actual budget support: If there is more optimism, is there more predictability in the signals we have received from the government there? No, there are signals that go in the opposite direction to what many younger and new entrants actually want: that you have to be able to drive production, and that it has to be profitable. Then we have the concrete budgetary procedures that we are about to adopt. Is there optimism and predictability in it and in the decisions that the majority now decides? According to my terms, the answer is clearly no. We have also made significant cuts in research to point forward in agriculture, cut in terms of – which has been mentioned by many – the Energy Flexibility Scheme and wood-based innovation. There are signals at all that help not to recruit, but to recruit more. The tax austerity that actually comes, by reducing the value of the agricultural deduction and by introducing a depreciation model that means a significant increase in the tax burden on those who enter and want to bet, does not make it any easier either. It does not create optimism, nor does it create predictability. In this way, it's sad that it's these signals that have so far come from the government in terms of one of the most important industries we might be facing, just to be able to create an alternative to a two-part economy. I want to use some of my post here today to give praise to the Christian People's Party and to the Left – I wish that the representative Farstad could have talked his entire article out, because I'm excited about what was in the rest of the script. But I just have to say that I think it's good that these two parties now pattern so strongly into this and these issues, and according to my concepts, very many of the signals and suggestions that actually come from the government. It deserves honor, because this is more important than just party political games alone. That's why it's a hope on my part and on the part of the Workers' Party that in the future you get a policy that targets those who want to enter the industry, and not just those who are going to leave the industry. Agricultural policy needs to be more than selling and dying more cheaply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e820	On 9 September, the electorate of the Right and the Advance Party gave a historic mandate to form a new government. This cooperation has resulted in a new direction for Norway and a new direction for the fisheries policy. Seafood is one of Norway’s largest export industries and has a significant potential to produce food for an ever-growing world population. In particular, I would like to highlight three elements from the Health Declaration which will promote growth in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Firstly, the government will pursue a policy of industry in which freer frameworks will contribute to sustainable growth. Norway can already be proud that we have an industry almost without subsidies, and that is the direction in which the government wants to continue. Secondly, the government will focus on knowledge and research. Research is an essential tool for promoting the growth potential of the marine food industry in terms of both technology, sustainability and new industries. Thirdly, the government will give high priority to simplification and modernisation. Both industry actors and management must avoid dealing with heavy-duty systems and practices that impede efficiency and weaken the competitiveness of our third largest export industry. We already have concrete plans for changes to be made. With regard to fisheries policy, we believe that future-oriented and good framework conditions will require adjustments to the structural policy for the fishing fleet. The government has already submitted to the consultation proposals to reverse the changes made to the coastal fishing fleet regulations earlier this year, which introduced an extended delineation by structuring. For the purposes of the aquaculture industry, the government provides for an increase in production and profitability within a sustainable framework. In order to contribute to this growth, we will give municipalities that make land available, 40 pst. the revenue generated from the 45 new breeding concessions announced earlier this year. In order to bring about the changes in the direction I have presented, we have made a cut in the budget for the next year in the Directorate-General for Fisheries' operating appropriations and in the grant of security training for fishermen. We have also reversed the Whitefish nutrition package. Although these are difficult priorities, the government believes that it is the right way to go in order to implement the changes we think are necessary and that point forward. Part of the industry, especially whitefish, is in a difficult situation with record quotas while our main exporting countries are struggling economically. Where the previous government would use subsidies and subsidies to support an industry that is struggling, this government now wants to facilitate growth through freer frameworks and more research. The government believes that in the longer term this will contribute to a more robust and profitable future industry. The reduced NOU Commission for the Marine Food Industry, which will deliver its report by the end of 2014, is expected to provide important answers on how to achieve better profitability in all parts of the fishing industry. While the volume of cod exported this year has increased by over 40 pst., the export value has increased by 4 pst. The cuts the government has made have also given the opportunity to invest heavily in research next year. We're pleased to be able to propose over 55 million. kr more for marine research in 2014 compared to 2013. These means shall include, inter alia: go to marine research, marine bioresource research, technological development and market research through the Norwegian Research Council. Through the Marine Research Institute and the Veterinary Institute, we strengthen the monitoring of the environmental impact of the aquaculture industry. And in addition, we're going to have a raise of $15 million. kr for increased monitoring of foreign matter in seafood under the direction of the NIFES research institute. These priorities will contribute to improved profitability in the seafood industry and will make an important contribution to the sustainable growth of production of healthy and safe food. Such a policy is forward-looking and will benefit Norway and Norwegian jobs. Norway is a small country, but we are a major global player in maritime food. We are the world's second largest maritime food exporter – after China – and we can play a significant role as a supplier of healthy food to the world's population. We have all the prerequisites for being able to harvest the blue field in a sustainable way. We have built skills over time, and we have actors in the industry who want to play with the authorities to make this an even more valuable industry along the coast and for the nation. It is the government's clear ambition that the fishing industry should be as important in the future as in the past, and there is no disagreement in this room that Norway should aim to become the world's leading maritime nation. Growth shall be sustainable and environmentally sound. I think we all agree on that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e852	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e855	The Minister was busy in his article about the growth potential of maritime nutrition, but one takes away all the tools and tools. So it's said a lot about growth-promoting tax laws from the Right and the Advance Party today, and from the Minister, while the Solberg government actually takes away tax laws from the fishermen. And that the industry should be on its own and not be subsidized with untimely action packages – it has also been in the hands of the Minister. But why isn't tax cuts for fishermen growing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e862	I am not aware that the tax reliefs and tax reliefs proposed in the budget do not benefit Norwegian fishermen and Norwegian fishing industry. We have a strong commitment to this, we have a strong commitment to R & D, to research, we have a strong commitment to transport. This is an industry that depends on good framework conditions in general, in order to develop further. Then we have made some distortions in relation to where we want to continue to invest in research, and that is in areas that we know are important in order to achieve sustainable growth, and in order to achieve safe and predictable stock management – including in the case of wild fish – in the future. So I believe that the budget that we have submitted and that we have received good feedback on is a budget that will also raise Norwegian fishing industry and Norwegian fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e869	The councils are talking about a new direction, a new course. It is said that the farming industry should be sustainable and environmentally friendly, and that we all agree on that – and we are. But as I was in my post, even though the industry shows the will to focus on escape, on salmon and on waste, there is always a need for a political look at this sector, for example. on this with defrosting — if you do not defrosting all the plants in the fjord simultaneously, it has no effect. My question to the Council of State is: Will she take such an overall responsibility – and look – all the time and go close to this important industry, so that we get the development that is desirable in terms of sustainability and environmental friendliness?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e878	I can answer that question positively to the representative Hemdal. It is incredibly important for me when I meet the industry to address these questions too, because with the ambitions we have for Norwegian aquaculture and farming, it is not possible to meet these without solving the lice problem, without solving the escape problem, and without solving some of the other environmental impacts that this industry has. That is why we are also investing in this area next year, and therefore I am also challenging the industry itself to participate in and use the TaxFUNN scheme and to make a larger contribution to research itself. Then I see that the industry also takes that kind of feedback from the authorities seriously, and they're more forward-looking, and they also have to be if we're to get sustainable, healthy growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e888	It has not been so easy in the debate today to get the representatives of the government parties to recognise the cuts that are on the various food budgets. And the Minister for Fisheries must have – that she recognizes these cuts and takes responsibility for them. Now when she says that it's a re-priority, that's not right, because this is a clean cut and not just a re-priority. But it's good to hear that someone stands up and defends the cuts that the government is knowingly doing. I have a question about a comment in the position as the majority who are behind, which is about the area tax for the farming industry. This is a subject to be reviewed, and the majority would like to review it in a way that is fast, that it has a clear mandate – and that it concentrates on the essential issue, namely how to give the host municipalities a long-term and stable share of the value creation related to aquaculture. And my question to the Council of State is simply: how will the Council of State and the Government follow up on what the majority in the vote expresses in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e895	I can respond positively to the fact that we want to follow up the recording that was made by the previous government, that the area charge should be investigated. That work will be started, and I am absolutely convinced that all views will be well seen through the investigation to be carried out. Then by this crossroads you've said 40 pst. of the revenues derived from the 45 concessions now declared, shall be assigned to municipalities which have host liabilities, which facilitate the industry. But I would warn you not to think that you are going to add an area tax to the top of what the industry is contributing to today. I think we have to see that this industry must also have good framework conditions in the future, but we have to pay the land tax, and then we have to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e903	Thank you for the article. In the fisherman’s newspaper, we read last Friday that the marketing of white fish – including cod – is cut by 30 pst. in the budget of the Norwegian Maritime Food Council for 2014. We know that 2013 has been a particularly challenging year for cod in our markets, and the efforts of the Seafood Council have been important. What 2014 brings, of course, remains to be seen. The need for greater efforts in the new markets – which I believe may have had a potential for Norwegian cod – is obvious for signatories, and if we are to get the value-added for the marine sector, we need to do more market-driven work. So my specific question is: is the Minister for Fisheries comfortable with the Norwegian Sea wire choosing to reduce marketing efforts by 30 p.m., and what will the Minister for Fisheries contribute to the market work for cod?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e912	It is a very important question that is being asked now, because we have great challenges with a lot of cod, and we have markets that are not as responsive as we would like, and it needs to be done more from the Norwegian side to improve market access. That is why the new departmental structure is so important – we are getting closer to the instruments, and we are getting closer to the trade policy, which is absolutely essential for better market access for Norwegian fish. Then I want to say that in part of the re-priorities that we have done, and in the new research effort in 2014, it is also spent on market research through the Norwegian Research Council. But I have also had a dialogue with the Council of Seafood Ministers and have challenged them to think through whether it is wise to have such clear silos between the farming industry on the one hand and the whitefish industry on the other hand, that you have to look a little more at the actual market challenges you have, in relation to how to dispose of funds in the Council of Seafood Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e921	Each year in December, the Fisheries Director shall calculate the amount of each fishing vessel to be allowed to fish for the following year in order to measure its group quotas for the new year. The same was done last year — for this year — and several coastal fleets disagreed with those calculations. On Monday some changes were made, and then I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: I wonder what the Minister will say about the new direction to the coastal fishermen, which is both confused and cursed by the fact that the Fisheries Director took 18 000 tonnes of cod from the coastal fleet, which are the smallest boats, and went to the sea fishing fleet, which is the largest boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e928	I have delegated to the Directorate of Fisheries to carry out the ongoing assessment of how best to adapt the fisheries in order to ensure that the fisheries are properly managed and that the quotas are taken up. I am concerned that we should have a differentiated fleet. I am concerned that those parts of the country that have processing facilities, etc., and that depend on having a coastal fleet that can deliver, will have a basis for that in the future as well. But beyond that, I have to assume that the assessments made by the Directorate are in line with the actual resource situation now, and what you think the different fleet groups are able to record.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e935	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e938	Our task as elected representatives, and perhaps in particular the nutrition committee, is among other things. facilitating business to flourish and flourish. There are good measures for tax relief, it belongs correctly to the areas of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Committee, simplification, smaller forms, less red tape, more focus on research and investment in infrastructure. This is where the new government and the new population supply, and I'm pretty sure you're going to keep going for the next four years. Some people most and Norwegian business, especially family-run businesses, will at first notice, are removing the unfair inheritance tax. Family ideal Aass Brewery in my hometown Drammen, which is the oldest brewery in Norway, has naturally had some challenges with the inheritance fee, as well as all other political challenges, especially if you run a brewery in Norway. Aass Brewery, one of many family-run businesses, is now looking positively at the future. In addition to tax relief, more investment in research, more investment in better roads and rail and less red tape, it is important that the government continues to work on bilateral free trade agreements, in addition to the free trade agreements with our EFTA partners. Here it is only to look at the many success stories of Norwegian companies after free trade agreements have been concluded with other countries. The free trade agreement with South Korea is a good example. The Agreement between EFTA and South Korea entered into force in September 2006. This has undoubtedly stimulated increased trade between Norway and South Korea, particularly on fish exports and industrial sports. Exports have exploded. If the trend continues and exports come up at the same record level as in recent years, South Korea is likely to be in the current year and perhaps next year in line with China, which is our largest exporting country in Asia, and then actually pass China. This is going to be exciting. Norway’s exports over the last 15 to 20 years have been globalised by a clearly lower share going to the EU and exports are increasing to a number of new markets. Trade policy relations with non-EU countries are therefore becoming more important. Therefore, we need to have a strong focus on facilitating more free trade agreements. Another important aspect for us politicians is to facilitate foreign investment, so that we get more risk capital in Norway, as many entrepreneurs and Norwegian businesses demand. However, to be seen as an attractive country to invest in and for Norwegian business to assert itself internationally, it is important that Norway has ambitions to become a number. 1 in key areas such as competitiveness, economic freedom, research and infrastructure. Here, Norway does not even come up when we compare with our neighbouring countries. There are a number of international surveys and corps that are worth looking at. If we compare ourselves with our Nordic neighbours, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, in key and important areas, we see this: In the case of economic freedom, Denmark is best, Finland is no. 2, Sweden No 3 and Norway No 4th@item: inlistbox Looking at which countries are competitive, Finland is no. 1, Sweden, No 2, Denmark, No 3 and Norway No 4th@item: inlistbox Looking at who are the most competitive cities in the Nordic region, Stockholm is no. 1, Copenhagen No. 2, Oslo No. 3 and Helsinki No 4th@item: inlistbox In the case of research, Finland is no. 1, Sweden, No 2, Denmark, No 3 and Norway No 4th@item: inlistbox In the case of transport, transport and infrastructure, Denmark is No: 1, Finland, No 2, Sweden No 3 and Norway No 4th@item: inlistbox I could still go on like this. In none of these unions, Norway reached and became a number. 1st@item: inlistbox Norway gets zero silver medals and zero gold medals. In these World Championships and Olympics, it may also be important to focus on seeing how we do it internationally in business. One day like this, when we in the Norwegian National Assembly discuss business and how we can get better jobs for business and entrepreneurs, I will end up taking the opportunity to thank and praise the founder of Norway. 1 and Norway’s richest, Olav Thon, for announcing last night that he is donating away his entire fortune – 25.4 billion. kr – and establish a foundation. The amount of equity shall be that sum and the formation shall include, inter alia: support objectives in mathematical, scientific and medical disciplines and it shall promote excellent entrepreneurship in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e974	The doubling of the Norwegian economy has been a repetition in this room in the last year. I want to show you the financial debate where the government party said they should spend oil money on measures that reduce the two-wayness of the Norwegian economy and that promote growth and productivity. But do they deliver? No, no, no. The proposed tax cuts have no proven effect in this direction. Income tax cuts are equally likely to increase demand for goods and services in the screened sector. Increased oil money consumption increases oil dependence and the risk of increased crown and interest rates. The Solberg government's policy will not help the export-oriented industry, on the contrary. The right hand and the forward hand will also remove the CO2 compensation scheme for the industry, which would have led to a large extra cost and a deterioration in the competitiveness of those who wear the most. And it would have framed the land-based export right industry. The threat of strike after the first budget did enough to make one turn. But the insecurity of the government of Solberg has the plant, is irreversible. This is a short-term and low-priority business policy. The Regeninga Solberg has been talking about growth-promoting measures in Norwegian business. We see little of that when it comes to the fishing industry. There are virtually all the measures that could have contributed to a more positive development — especially in the whitefish industry. It is particularly serious for many small and large communities along our coast – especially for those who are highly cod-dependent. Seafood is an important contributor to the Norwegian economy. They generate large export revenues, but also marine food industries have marked the economic crisis. Important maritime food markets are a hard framework of high unemployment and weak purchasing power. In particular, this is the case with Spain, which is a very important market for Norwegian cod. For this reason, the government of Stoltenberg had closely followed up the food industry and put in place early measures for, among other things. to ensure that fishermen were provided with and translated into their fish. Ten-million lead thruster. kr was decisive for many small processing companies and they were able to get hold of raw materials at all times. In the spring, we saw clear signs that action had to be taken to help increase Norwegian fish stocks in Europe. This resulted in a growth package for the whitefish industry, with everything from exceptional marketing agents, extra means of marketing through Nofima, programmes to improve quality, extra resources for food surveillance, among others. documenting the quality of Norwegian fish and, not least, the attractiveness of line drawing, which is a particularly important measure for the liner fleet, which delivers very good quality fish. All of this was accurate measures that came after close dialogue with the industry and that the Right and the Progress Party have taken away. Cuts in the fisherman’s deduction and the marine value creation programme should also be mentioned. It doesn't end here. Also, the special fisheries rules had within the perimeter of the permit, the Right and the Advance Party tried to remove. One of the cutters in security training, too. Unfortunately, too many fishes are already around today. As if this were not enough, they have also proposed cutting off the fishing ports and ferries for 46 million. kr, which goes beyond Napp in Nordland and Sommarøy in Troms. Yes, it was a bit of a Christmas gift that was sent to the fishing industry. And I haven't mentioned the so-called efficiency of the Fisheries Directorate, a cut of 14.1 million. kr. Here the Minister for Fisheries admits that it is likely that this cut will go beyond the important work on, for example: UUU-work or draft. Thus, the vision of Norway, which is the world's foremost seamate, is shattered by the government of Solberg. But I have a clear call for the Minister of Fisheries. What will the Minister do in the short term to gain new market access for white fish? Normally you would have benefited from the low price, for example. in cod, in order to enter new markets, but the measures have, as I said, been removed. What will the Minister for Fisheries do in the short term to improve quality? And why don't the fishermen get their share of extra tax dollars? Show us the industry that lives under equal conditions, for example. when raw material is available. The Labour Party will continue to pursue an active industrial policy. We have faith in the fishing industry. We don't think it's subsidizing to bring growth packages. We in the Labour Party can promise that what we said before the election, we will also work for after the election. Therefore, we need to do everything we can to ensure that the fishing industry, like other industries, receives growth packages when counter-basins become large, that there are long-term and careful framework conditions, and that the vision of Norway as the world's leading maritime union is restored.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1015	On 10 June this year we adopted here in the hall a big message called the World's Top Marine Mathematicians. With astonishingly small exceptions, there was broad agreement that this was both a vision showing the nation's possibilities, and that this was a vision that gave both public Norway and Norwegian industry something to go after. There is a broad consensus today that seafood is one of the most important export industries we have. It is also referred to as one of the three most important knowledge clusters we have. Marine nutrition also meets us in so many other ways: at the cultural level, as a traditional bearer, as a bearer of coastal culture and as an identity for people who have their own business in the industry. In addition, it should be mentioned that it helps in the interest when you deliver well 60 billion. kr in export income per year. In the Right, we believe that competitiveness is one of the most important inputs we can get into Norwegian business. For us, it means making provision for Norwegian business to innovate more, has a predictable framework for growth, and there are available capital for development and initial investment. We also believe it is important that industry has such good infrastructure that it promotes and does not impede competition. For all these factors, the government has taken action in the budget we are debating here today. Right-wing view predictable growth as a good tool for more research and development of both more products and more markets. We also believe that the demand for sustainable growth is best achieved by facilitating predictable growth. So the Solberg government is delivering with this budget. When we discuss tax relief for business, it's a little strange to note that property tax is not referred to as tax relief for business. That's how you almost wonder if someone lives in the delusion that you bring money down from the sky when you have to pay the property tax. Good over half of the 14 billion. kr which is required to be taxed on assets has been collected directly from the Norwegian business community in order for the owners to be able to pay their taxes. To the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, who was so concerned about turning more towards the central strata, I would say that for the part of the country we come from, the removal of the inheritance tax and the property tax would say that Northern Norwegian business has 750 million. kr extra in capital each year to develop, innovate, create new markets and create safer jobs. It's hunting money, too, for a part of the country with a private business. This government is delivering on the way, with 1.3 billion dollars. kr more on the road and 150 mill. kr more to the railway – this just to show that I am also able to see the country as a whole, that I do not just see North Norway. An infrastructure fund of 100 billion is also established. kr. When I travel around, the great earthquake in Norwegian business is not that regional development funds disappear. The big tremor is if you don't get the goods transported in and out of the country. Here comes today's government. So for research. If we're going to continue to have a high cost level, we need to research more, and we need to be wiser. There's two ways to do it. One way is to deliver – in the last second, in the last week of the election – a package that promises Norwegian business. The other way is to have arrangements, so that Norwegian businesses feed and research themselves. Tax FUNN is such a system in which we give Norwegian business incentives to research for ourselves and increase its own competitiveness. The BIA, the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, is such a package where we learn Norwegian business to research more and innovate more. So you're more on your own. So for simplification. It was actually nice to hear the representative Botten stand here and praise former Minister of Industry Trond Giske's efforts to simplify business in Norway. As this is a bit time when the representative, almost in the same sentence, criticises the current government for the complexity of export credits. In the last period, we almost got the impression that we went to the Minister of Industry at the time when we asked him to come up with a scheme for the Export Credit Act. A joint committee then stated: ‘The Committee considers it important that the new State export financing scheme be robust, reliable and cost-effective and ensure good, predictable and competitive conditions for the Norwegian export industry.’ I cannot read the essay in Today's Business today in any other way than that the representative Botten believes that former Minister of Industry Giske has not delivered at all. Obviously, if there's such a danger signal, we almost have to do another round. Here's where the government comes along. The Minister of Economic Affairs was quite clear that contact with business is good. This government provides an industrial policy that businesses want and with which businesses can develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1037	The government has visions for a forward-looking agricultural and food policy. I'm glad that a joint committee is behind our goal of increasing food production. The government believes that the best thing we can do to achieve this goal is to ensure cost-effective food production and to facilitate increased profitability for food producers. In order to achieve this, we will in future review laws, rules and support schemes with a view to simplifying and prioritizing more specifically than has previously been done. Before I started working as an agricultural and food minister, I thought that agriculture has a recruitment and image problem. The Progress Party has never steered agricultural policy before. In the first few months as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have visited agricultural and forestry industries around many counties and have been confirmed that recruitment is one of the main challenges ahead. The search for agricultural schools is low, and educational provision is threatened by closure in some places. We depend on young people taking over and betting whether we're going to keep the food value chain out in the districts. For example, slaughterhouses and dairies depend on farmers delivering milk and meat in order to be able to continue the operation. In Leknes, Lofoten, I visited Horns Slaughter, who sees challenges ahead. Many of the farmers who deliver animals to them have passed 60 years, and the interest in taking over from younger generations is labs. Despite the growing demand for Lofotlam by more and more consumers and the fact that it is produced less than market demand, it is not eager to produce more locally. Producing food doesn't have the status it deserves in our society, and it's a key factor if we're going to get young people into the profession. In order for Horns Slaughterhouse and other food businesses to continue to have the basis for operations, and for us to be able to deliver the food that Norwegian consumers want, we depend on more young people choosing the farming profession in the future. I believe it is important that both politicians and industry themselves speak up agriculture and not down. Young people today have great opportunities to train for attractive professions with good pay conditions and a lot of freedom. If agriculture is to compete with this, it is the first commandment that we, as politicians and farmers, speak up on agriculture instead of highlighting everything that is bad and difficult. Because it is very positive, which I not least look at my journey around Norway. The food sector is important for most people. Both primary industries and the food industry represent many jobs throughout the country. It is also necessary to provide for a policy to enable the farmer to make even more use of technological aids. In order to increase profitability, this has to be seen in the context of concession limits. It's e.g. a paradox that a milk robot can milk 600 000 litres per year, while the quota limit for a single use is only 450 000 litres. New technology will give food producers more leisure time, which is an important value for young people today. The agricultural agreement and the grubbing-up agreement expire in the first half of 2014. The Government will review the agreements with a view to simplification and will aim at reducing the number of aid schemes. Among other things, I have signaled that I want to prioritize the full-time farmer and facilitate larger units with more robust operating arrangements. The government wants active agriculture all over the country, and that means we're going to have support schemes that take that into account. I also want a review of the investment aid to see if it is optimally structured. This government is betting on the forest industry. Next year, we've increased the appropriations for forest roads with a total of 30 million. kr. That's 30 pst. more than that provided by the previous government. It will enable forest owners to take out larger values from the forest. The red-green government focused on caring for the rain forest in other parts of the world. This government also wants to invest in the forest industry in Norway, because it is good climate policy and good industrial policy. The government’s investment in forest roads can generate a production value in the mainland industry of up to 3 billion. kr per year. The agricultural agreement for 2014 is close to 85 pst. of my ministry's budget. However, we have made some changes that point in the right direction, for example. by improving efficiency, increasing investment in forestry infrastructure and increasing investment in industrial innovation. I will, unlike my closest predecessors, be engaged in being a minister also for consumers. I believe Norwegian consumers deserve an even more varied range of products. Demand for Norwegian, locally produced, high-quality food is increasing, and developments in this area show that consumers are willing to pay more when quality is perceived as good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1058	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1061	I'm actually, surprisingly, agreeing with a lot of what the Council says in its statement -- prioritising the full-time farmer, making it profitable for young people to enter the industry, compared to other types of industries, and also talking agriculture up. But then we're addicted to not politicizing it down. My question to the Minister of Agriculture for this reason is: have we gone out quite as bastant and announced a reduction in import protection, a reduction in budget support, increased taxes through both agricultural deductions and depreciation and also the reduction of our food land – is that what should help to create optimism among younger people who view agriculture as an attractive industry to go into?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1067	Now we haven't been through any round of the agricultural agreement yet. It's going to be the most important thing we're going to do to spring, where we'll show in which direction we want to go, step by step, over these four years. What matters to me is that we are now making it possible for us to make a living on agriculture more profitable than what has been done, and that we are looking at some of the schemes that we have today, which we can prioritise in another way. I have grown up on a farm myself – I am even no part of it – and have felt for 35 years about the lack of valuation of Norwegian food production. I have also lived with the view that is on agriculture, and the lack of optimism that is in the industry, and that is perhaps one of the reasons why my brothers and I – as it looks now – are not going to take over and run the farm. What's obvious to me now is that there are so many new technological solutions, as exciting as they happen, that we can communicate to Norwegian youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1074	I would also like to thank the Council of State which stressed that we are going to have agriculture across the country and that we are going to increase food production. This is important. Then I have a very specific question to the Council of State: how does it feel that IKEA has a more offensive soil protection policy than the government has?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1081	With regard to that matter in Westby, the Progress Party and the Right were very clear in the election campaign that if there was a government change, we would give green light to that expansion. I've been very clear that it doesn't mean a clear signal to build up food land all over the country. On the contrary, I have been concerned about signalling that Norwegian local politicians need to be better able to use the land, to build higher, build denser and take responsibility for building as little food as possible. But it's a fact that Norway's population is going to increase with many, many inhabitants, that we need to build more homes, and that many will live in press areas where the good food soil is. It further underlines the need for local politicians to be conscious of their responsibilities in planning land use in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1086	If the Council of State believes it is serious that one should build up as little food as possible, it is nevertheless a bad start to start by expanding both the IKEA soil and almost 1,000 targets cultivated around Trondheim. We will probably come back to debates on soil protection, which will be important in the future. What has shaped the debate today is that agriculture needs predictability. That's the opposite of some of the more ideological test balloons that the Council of State has sent out. There is not much predictability in notifying the EU of a reversal of the ostetoll without knowing what the Stortinge believes. There is little predictability when actors are now trying to accelerate transfers because the changes in the inheritance tax have negative effects. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has agreed on a number of issues relating to agricultural policy, and I would like to mention three of them: increased recruitment, increased food production, and increased maritime supply. Can the Council of State now put away the experimental balloons of ideological character? How will she concentrate on following up the Committee's objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1095	It seems that this government has reduced all agricultural land in Norway by two decisions which actually represent a very small percentage of all the dean that were built under the previous government. The total reduction in agricultural area from 2005 to 2012 was 5 pst., or 500 000 decars. 50,000 decaves were food soils. So making it that way -- I'll put it in perspective. With regard to the policy that has been pursued in the past, one could say that the only predictable thing was that pessimism in agriculture has continued, the number of use that has been abandoned has increased, and that few young people see the opportunities that are actually in the industry today. That's why we believe that we need a new course to provide predictable framework conditions, but that needs to make it easier for those who are going into the industry to get more profitability and to take advantage of the new technological solutions that exist today, which can lead to increased optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1102	I want to support the Council of State that we need to be better at talking about agriculture – both industry itself and politicians. Then I want to trigger the tension of the representative of Storberget by using my last lines on a question to the Council of State: The overall position of the left is that we should continue the financial support for Norwegian agriculture at around the current level, while at the same time contributing to a sensible decoration of the legislation governing agriculture. However, all of this must be based on knowledge, predictability for the nutritionist – for the farmer and for the food industry – and on a thorough assessment of the impact of measures. Does the Left Council share the view that the changes have to take up the points I mention here?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1109	I very much agree with that, because in agricultural policy there are many aspects that play together. One is customs protection and the other is about the part of the policy, about what transfers we have, and how they are organised, and about the target prices and the income opportunities that farmers have in addition to it. So that's, of course, a pretty large and complex system, which we have to change gradually. And of course, everything has to be done with knowledge at the bottom, I want to focus on that. I mean, there's room to do a lot. When we look at today's agricultural agreement, with over 100 support schemes, I believe that when we are going to tighten up the use of money, we have to make sure that the farmer gets more, and that we apply less to those schemes that do not go directly to the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1116	We have now received an agricultural minister who, I believe, has a Norway record in the run-down of the area for which she has been responsible – at least in the past. Now she's calling for talk, and I'm glad. Listening to parts of what is being said seems to have been a total makeover – at least politically – at this Council of States. It is also assured from the partners in Stortinget that almost nothing has to be changed. It shall be broadly the same, and reference shall be made to comments in the setting. When it comes to justifying what she wants to do, the Council mentions that it is to be invested in the full-time farmer, not in the combined user, who is the backbone of Norwegian agriculture across the country. There are many of these that produce the new, exciting food that the Council of State is happy with. I want to ask if it is such that the reason why the Right Party and the Advance Party are not involved in the comment on the usage structure and framework conditions is that this is where she wants to cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1123	I do not recognize that I have been talking down on agriculture during the time I have been the Council of State – rather on the contrary. I've been busy showing all the positives that happen around, and by stressing that, for example. This industry has increased efficiency more than the rest of the economy in recent years — in fact by 6 pst. As far as the full-time farmer is concerned, I think it is important to facilitate that those who now enter the profession can have the opportunity to live on it. But there will be great differences from part of the country to part of the country. We're going to have a policy where we're going to be able to have agriculture all over the country. So of course, there'll also be variations here. The starting point when we're going to deal with the agricultural agreement is that we have to try to find opportunities to strengthen the full-time bond. At the same time, we are going to facilitate agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1132	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1135	I want to start by saying that Norway is doing well. Since 2005, 350,000 new jobs have been created. More than two thirds of the growth in employment has come outside the public sector. The high value creation has benefited everyone. Norway has become a better and fairer country in the last eight years. One of the reasons is that an active industrial policy has been pursued. There is a lot of focus on the two-part division of the Norwegian economy. The right-hand Party Government further strengthens this bi-dividual. Measures that weaken the workline are combined with increased use of oil. The government spends extra money on its main election promise: tax cuts. The proposed tax havens are neither growth-promoting nor forward-looking. In the interests of Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian economy, the Labour Party chooses not to increase its oil money use. While the Workers' Party will focus on an active and long-term industrial policy, we see that the Right Party-Fremskritsparti-government is proposing a passive industrial policy through cut-offs in schemes that are important to business, as this budgetary position shows. The fact that government cuts into instruments targeted at district industries increases the differences between cities and countries. The cuts in regional regional development funds are, in my opinion, dramatic for the districts. In my own county, Vest-Agder, there was 42.4 million added from the Stoltenberg government. to these funds for next year's budget. Of these, 11 million were added locally. kr for development projects and cluster programmes. Then it's paradoxical that the government says it will bet on just that. It is now announced that the cut for West Agder can reach between 12 and 18 million. kr. Everyone understands that such a cut will have great consequences. The Committee notes that the increased allocations for cluster programmes will go to the establishment of the Global Centres of Expertise, which is the new level of the cluster programme. But it is worrying that regional development funds, which in some countries today go to cluster work, are being cut. The Workers' Party believes that these funds are essential to stimulate innovation and entrepreneurial activity. District development funds are important contributions where the market fails as badly as possible and ensure that both natural resources and human resources can be used across the country. In the context of the consultation rounds of the Business Committee on the budget, Innovation Norway pointed out that these cuts will contribute to a long period of uncertainty for entrepreneurs and businesses in the district. Another proposal by the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government, which testifies to passive industrial policy, is the proposal for the CO2 compensation scheme. Although the government was pressured to reintroduce the scheme, the damage has already occurred. Industry calls for predictability of industrial policy from the new government. The doubling of the period of leave of the companies is likely to be a disadvantage to the competitive industry. This, in turn, will result in multiple redundancies, rather than permissions being used. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government announced that the instrument should be reviewed and that nationwide instruments in Innovation Norway should be prioritised. In my view, it will affect agricultural policy instruments, and regional instruments are likely to be down-prioritized. When the red-green government took over in 2005, it took over a predictable maritime policy. During the whole period, the maritime industries were one of the areas of activity of the government’s industrial policy. Measures for the employment of seafarers were established to ensure maritime competence and the recruitment of seafarers. The working party believes that there is a need to legislate the scheme and to raise the maximum rate of reimbursement per employed person. I'm recording that the Left is the only party that wants to remove the regime. While it was a tough course under our government, we now see a much more unpredictable maritime policy. The right-wing Party Government announced in the Sundvolden Declaration that they will also investigate the limitations of the scope of the NIS. Here I would like to point out that any extension could weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1162	It is a joint committee that recognises that agriculture has had a high productivity growth and that knowledge, research, development and new technological solutions in agriculture are important. We think the focus must be on increased food production, and the intention is to increase self-sufficiency. The Committee is concerned that agriculture will have a framework to help improve its overall profitability over the years to come and that incentives for new investments and operational optimisation are thus important. I don't see this as being a special new policy. But what's new is that the plural – Right, Christian People's Party, Left and Progress Party – thinks there is a need for reforms to achieve these goals, and to increase the profitability of agriculture. Right has confidence in the farmer and believes it is important to strengthen the farmer's right to ownership and self-determination over his own operations. These are not radical changes, but absolutely necessary changes. Although there is broad political agreement on the objectives of Norwegian agriculture, experience with the red-green policy shows that the number of uses has been smaller, that the volume of cultivated land has been significantly reduced, that grain production is historically low, and that there is a shortage of both sheep meat and lamb meat. There is also under-covering of Norwegian-produced fruit and vegetables. Private border trade – the so-called harry trade – is increasing. Imports of food for sale in shops are also increasing. There is also poor recruitment and optimism in the industry, which has been pointed out by several here today. There is evidence that the agricultural policy that has been pursued by the Stoltenberg government has not worked as they had hoped. On the right, agriculture and industry need to enter a process of change. High customs walls in a small, open economy, that we have, are not the solution for Norway. Agriculture has also faced challenges with the problems of the two-part oil economy. With a high probability, more activity can be created by increasing the focus on challenges with the two-part economy, for example. investment in infrastructure, research, education and lower taxes, rather than using agriculture as part of the main economic instruments to create growth and development in District Norway. From my point of view, it is important and proper to understand agricultural policy and rural policy to a greater extent than what has been done. The total annual agricultural support is about 25 billion. kr, including the effect of customs protection. About half of the direct agricultural support is allocated to kilograms of product produced. Such price support stimulates capital intensive and specialised operations and leads to the exploitation of economies of scale and cheaper production. That's good. On the right, we have confidence in the Norwegian farmer, and if we turn some of the remaining resources towards better agronomy and measures to maximise results per kilogram, more land will be used, and overall, Norwegian production will increase — both in total and in districts. Former State Council Battle Violence Vedum set up an expert group to advise on how to raise grain production in Norway. The expert group did not provide any clear and easy answers. A broad set of tools had to be provided, they thought. The red-green target of 20 pst is also shown. increases in cereal production by 2030 are very low. This shows that grain production may not be the production with the largest natural resources to increase operations in Norway. The national audit also points out that the use of resources in agriculture is in direct conflict in some contexts. In order to increase the profitability of Norwegian agriculture, the Right believes that the individual farmer must be given greater autonomy, and be able to use his available capacity better. Right has confidence in the farmer. It must be possible to increase the quota ceilings and the amount of the number of gardeners involved in co-operation. The challenges associated with land renting must also be reduced. Forest is an important resource that can be exploited better. With the effort we are now making on forest roads, the potential to take out more forest will be considerably better. Forests are also an important resource in future new bioeconomy. I am sure it is possible to increase production in Norwegian agriculture, but then we have to show the farmer a lot more confidence. The policy that has been pursued for agriculture has not solved the challenges for either the farmer or society. The Nordics want a competitive and good Norwegian agriculture. The most important criterion for agricultural success is the acceptability of the Norwegian consumer for agriculture. It is the consumer who has to pay the subsidies at the end of the day, and it is the consumer who ultimately, through his choices in the trade desk, decides the salary and future to Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, it is important that they become competitive in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1185	Analysis shows that the turnover of the marine food industry can sixfold over the next decades. But such growth depends on active investment from both industry and the public. So it depends on whether we're focusing on the bet, that we're leading the world. This means that Norwegian seafood companies cannot attend NM carefully. They have to win the World Cup every day. Cutting in this area is one of the least future prospects we can do. Therefore, there is little consistency between the rhetoric of the Minister of Fisheries and the budget she provides. When you add up and reduce this budget, you find a net cut. In particular, it has implications for the whitefish industry. The government will remove the entire growth package for white fish nutrition. They cut out the entire technology effort in the fishing industry through the Marine Value Creation Program. In a difficult market situation, they cut the market work in Nofima. They cut into regional development funds, and at the top of everything, they cut into the development of the fishing port. The budget has today been described as a change of pace. In that case it is a shift to a lower rate. There is passive industrial policy where active efforts are needed, and it reinforces the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. If we are to extract the full and full potential of our marine resources, we need to take new steps, for example. for the whitefish industry, which is struggling with profitability and has not had room for specific technology bet or innovation in recent years. In such a situation it would be thought that there was unison and almost cross-political agreement to invest in a forward-looking fishing industry. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The government believes in business neutrality. This may be fine in principle, but in the face of reality, the government's passive industrial policy can mean lost opportunities and lost jobs. To the Fisherman's magazine, the Minister for Fisheries says that it is not the State that has the primary responsibility to keep living along the Norwegian coast. No one means it. There is no one who believes that the State has the primary responsibility for the profitability of the companies. The companies themselves do. The idea of private capital entering the state of withdrawal rests on a very central condition: that there are others who want to enter. Some of these are difficult to find for the fishing industry. Nevertheless, it is more important for the Minister of Fisheries to take control of the steering wheel than to use the means available to her. The irony in this is that what the Minister for Fisheries is up against in an industry that is struggling, she is in an industry that is going well. I want to give the Minister of Fisheries the opportunity today to explain, from this pulpit, why the government cuts to technology development in the fishing industry, but gives more to marine research to just develop new technology. Why should the logic applied by the Minister of Fisheries to aquaculture, where the cash register is hot due to high salmon prices, not apply to other parts of the seafood industry? Does the Minister for Fisheries really think that one government crown is positive for one part of the industry, but negative and subsidies for another? This is inconsistent, and it's short-sighted. The Labour Party wants an active industrial policy. If we're going to succeed in being eaten and world-leading, we're going to have to bet. We want the public to be involved in a commitment to new technology – applied, nutrient-oriented, eaten and concrete – through e.g.: Marine value creation program. If an industry that is important for a region or for the country as a whole is struggling at a given time, help must be given over the knee. You have to bet if you think the industry has a future. If you don't think so, you have to do what the government is doing for the fishing industry. The Labour Party believes it's a future to bet along the coast, on aquaculture, on the biomarine industries, on the supplier industry, on everything that we all agree on, but also on the whitefish and the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1213	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1216	In Norway, we have a unique opportunity to invest in knowledge to ensure value creation and future well-being through wise management of oil wealth. Everyone agrees that we must invest in the future. Everyone also agrees that research and innovation are important, and that following the rules of action for good management of our resources is good. But, when it comes to it: the red-green government, after eight years of power, has really not used an historic opportunity to invest in the future. Public expenditure has increased sharply over the last eight years. In 2013, the State budget is more than 1 000 billion. NOK, towards about 600 billion. kr in 2005. Real growth in research in the last eight years has not been greater than the growth in the state budget. According to NIFU, the share of research appropriations in the total state budget was 3.7 p.m. in 2006 — that is exactly the same in 2013. I don't call that a priority. When Jens Stoltenberg announced in January 2013 that the government would increase the effort for research, it said to read in the newspaper: ‘In 2007, according to former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal, the red-greens took a ‘sleep cutting’ in the research appropriations [[SV]] In its alternative budget, the Right set a total of SEK 2.5 billion more than the red-green for knowledge and research.’ It can hardly be said more clearly. And it became a problem for the red-green government – the lost choice. When the rule of action on the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy was introduced, there was a clear premise that the increase should be used to generate future growth. Reduced taxes on business, research and knowledge investment and infrastructure are specifically mentioned. In its 2011 annual report, the Governor said: ‘The authorities have used the space for action to implement standard increases and to increase expenditure in a number of areas. On the other hand, priority should be given to measures that strengthen productivity and growth in the longer term, including fiscal adjustments, which seem to have come to the fore.» Right went to the choice of a reinforced effort on knowledge, for a competitive business and to ensure our future well-being. It creates confidence when we see that the government will keep it. The government is proposing nearly half a billion dollars more for research than what was proposed by the previous government. That's what I call a priority! TaxFUNN is strengthened, the BIA, the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, is strengthened. The government proposes to strengthen efforts in petroleum research, marine research, nanotechnology, biotechnologist and ICT. It is important to ensure the renewal and transformation of business and society, in order to mention something. The Labour Party says they will be active in business policy. In that case, research needs to be much more intensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1249	The President will point out that when you quote, you should say when the quotation starts, when it ends and where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1252	The Government encourages the Norwegian industry to have long-term and predictable framework conditions. This will secure jobs and ensure competitiveness and opportunities for increased value creation. A good old progress party slogan is that «The future is created, it is not adopted». That slogan is as topical today as it was before. In a short time, the right-wing Party government has taken several good steps to strengthen value creation throughout the country. Taxes and charges have been reduced and the form field and bureaucracy are to be further reduced and simplified. This will improve the business environment for business start-ups and further development. The economy spends billions of dollars annually on its own resources on research and development. This is of great importance in ensuring the development and growth of business. The Progress Party is pleased that the User-led Innovation Arena will receive an increase of 80 million. kr in relation to the proposals made by the Government of Stoltenberg II. In addition, the TaxFUNN scheme is strengthened by approximately a quarter of a billion dollars. This will increase access for business to the necessary capital. The shipping industry has, and still has, a formidable impact on our business. The knowledge and experience of Norwegian seafarers from offshore operations has led us, among other things, to: are among the foremost in maritime technology. Norwegian maritime industry provides jobs throughout the country, and employs more than 100 000 people in different industries, about 100 000. 25 000 of these are seafarers. The Progress Party has been fighting for many years to legislate and raise the ceiling on the net pay scheme. Now that we're in government, we're about to implement this. In the election campaign, the Workers' Party promised, with the representative Botten at the head, both to legislate the net pay system and to raise the ceiling on it. After the election, we have neither heard nor seen any of the world's things about this – despite the fact that the representative Botten pointed out that the maritime sector was one of the main areas of the Workers' Party. I would also like to remind you that Stoltenberg II was still sitting by a majority when they presented their budget. This shows that the election vows of the Workers' Party are not faithful. In fact, I don't think it's nice to stand here and say that other parties lie when they promise so much in the election campaign, and they don't pay when they present their own budget. They even have national decisions that they will legislate on the net pay scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1269	Education, research and industrial policy are interrelated. This government prioritises the creation of value, competitiveness and the realisation of the knowledge society. The draft budget debated in these days facilitates increased quality in the education and research sector. It benefits business and the labour market. Kristin Vinje has already commented on the research part of the budget proposal, so I would like to point out a few other points that have nutritional relevance. The government is now strengthening the basic funding of the university and higher education sectors by increasing the framework for the results-based redistribution of research funds by 100 million. kr. It will be positive for the best professional environments, also at our new universities. An additional quota of 100 new scholarship positions is also included in the budget. The majority of the Church, Education and Research Committee has said that the allocation of these should take particular account of the new universities. It is important for these institutions to be able to participate in cooperation projects with industry as well. This will benefit the regions and the whole country. Under the heading of Joint Actions for Universities and Higher Education in the position of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the appropriation is increased by 100 million. kr in relation to the State budget proposals of Stoltenberg. 50 million. have been set aside to modernise the equipment park for the training of engineers, and it is necessary to do so. The government here shows that it takes seriously the advice from business and NOW. In order to ensure high-quality engineering training with relevance to working and business life, students are required to acquire skills on equipment that matches what they want to meet in the workplace. That is why the government's For my part, I hope that this bet will continue. For example, in our part of the country, we need to establish the Southern lab, a cooperation project between the University of Agder and the business community of the region with the world-leading technology clusters NODE and EYDE at the head. We need more of these measures. It is to take seriously the requirement of relevance in education. The impact on business in parts of the country will be significant. In a few weeks now, the bourgeois government has raised knowledge and competitiveness to main fields of activity. This gives rise to optimism for the strengthening of cooperation between industry and the education sector. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1286	Food is the world's most important product. Agriculture policy must also be important. Therefore, nutrition policy is so important because it is also about the food we get from the sea. SV has great faith in agriculture, both because it makes the most important product in the world, but also because there are so many large, good ring-effects in the communities where agriculture is present. In Hedmark, there are a total of 14 000 jobs based on agriculture, on production and on the food industry. There is a large and important industry in Hedmark, and it is a large and important part of the food supply to the whole country. That is why, with great concern, I have heard both what the Minister of Agriculture has said in the past about Norwegian agriculture, the signals contained in the Government Declaration on Agriculture, and the cuts that the government has shown in the first round, where they also say that they had not had the agricultural agreement at the bottom, they had cut more, because that is what they want. It worries me, because it is extremely important that we now do what is in this setting, and that there is a touching consensus in this setting, namely that we need to increase Norwegian food production, we need to take care of the food soil where we are going to grow the food, and we also need to make sure that there is a future in agriculture. I don't think the cut method is the right one. Norway is a country where the production of agricultural products is so difficult that there is a need to have a very high level of support. And social benefits are important if you are to get young people recruited into agriculture in the future. Food safety and animal health have been a little talked about. It costs money, but it's worth paying for, because it says something about the value base we have for our food supply. In Hedmark, the forest is important. That's why it's so very regrettable that the majority has now cut the forest tile scheme. So it represents 8 of the 14 TWh that we agreed to have from bioenergy, which was very important to achieve the climate goals. The director of Mjøsen Skog says that the grant has been absolutely crucial – that it is not possible to make money on this without the scheme, and that the current cut will mean that this important industry and this important part of the climate deal will be stopped. I must say, I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1299	The state must have its hands on the steering wheel of industrial policy, says the Labour Party's leader in his post here today. I wish the Workers' Party had more confidence in all the individuals who constitute the private ownership of this country. In tens of thousands of businesses with hundreds of thousands of jobs, we have private ownership, and when you talk to them – I hear that there are many people who travel a lot around – you hear that what they want is that the state has less hands on the wheel instead of more. And the spokeswoman of the Workers' Party also boasts that her former Minister of Industry did what he could to simplify, namely that the state should do less. One should think a little more about how to facilitate private ownership, so that one can develop one's own business, business – through taxation and other conditions that are comparable, and not least that we do not reduce our competitiveness in relation to the world around us. So there's also been a theme here today that personal tax relief doesn't matter to business. It claims the chairman of the committee and several others. However, capital taxation is essential for private capital to be invested in Norwegian jobs, and personal taxation is also central to stimulating employment. This is central to the Right, it is central to private ownership, and it is central to small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. I think that the reasoning around, for example. The inheritance fee will be quite hollow. Removing the inheritance fee will lead to 2 billion in the long term. kr less in load for individuals, many of which are linked to enterprises and enterprises facing generation shifts. Estimated profit tax of 200-250 million. NOK must not be the big problem when it comes to a 2 billion relief. kr. It amazes me. It also surprises me that the opposition is more concerned with state ownership than with private ownership and is occupied by businesses such as Entra and Mesta, which are completely peripheral to what the state should be doing about business. The state has to own a lot. It's still going to do that. But I think it's more important – and the Workers' Party should pay particular attention to – to look at how to run these businesses – that they are managed through the places you have to control them, and not by random restaurants in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1308	I'm glad the joy hasn't come to those who're in position. You're actually in position and you can control the country. I would like to make a small enquiry to the representative of Korsberg, who sadly told here how heavy that inheritance was to be given by the former government. That was probably also why you were very busy removing the inheritance fee. Maybe the courage should have been strengthened after that, but it actually doesn't look like that. What the representative, Mr Korsberg, said was that simplification was important, that the pace of simplification has now increased, and that it was an urgent start at the beginning. If you count on the simplification measures that the previous government and current government have, you get to the exact same sum. So that equation and that math, it's a long way inside of me to understand. Frank Bakke-Jensen was up and talking about Export Credit Norway and thought that of course it was a good tool, but there was then a criticism of the old government. To that it is said that there have been very many positive feedbacks to get about GIEK and Export Credit Norway. But the situation that has arisen now has been given feedback, and I also think it is very strange that the Minister of Industry has not heard about those recordings. So that's now you have to tackle the challenges that appear now. It's that simple. The representative Bente Thorsen of the Progress Party was also up on the platform talking about the net pay system. She thought it was strange that I could say something about the Left's promised net pay in the election campaign, but cut it now. Now it is the case that both the Labour Party and the Advance Party election programmes want to legislate on the net pay system and raise the ceiling. So there's a common job to do. A programmed promise about it for four years, so it's important to look at that perspective and not to deliver everything after one month. But I think it's important to have an offensive approach to it. It might be interesting to hear when the Progress Party – which is in government and has the hand on the steering wheel in this case – actually intends to legislate on this scheme. And when are you going to raise the roof, and what roof is that? Is it in the next budget, or is it in two, three or four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1317	5 January 1993 lists «Braer» outside Shetland with approx. 85000 tonnes of crude oil on board. In 1996, ‘Sea Empress’ was listed outside Wales and there were 72 000 tonnes of crude oil. In 2002, ‘Prestige’ is listed outside Spain with 77 000 tonnes of crude oil. Only that cleaning cost between 5 and 7 billion. euro. In 2009 ‘Full City’ is listed outside Bamble with only 300 tonnes bunkers. Only that clean-up cost 270 million. kr. From the Røst to the Russian border there are three tugboats on standby, there are 540 nautical miles, there will be 135 nautical miles per boat if they are ideally located. If it's quiet, they can reach a potential hazard of nine hours. If there's a northeast storm and flea and ice cream and dark time, their speed might be down to five knots. That'll take 27 hours. And there can be seven hours from a boat shrimp from the limit of 30 nautical miles and up in the spring. So it was very surprising for us that both the previous government and this government proposed to reduce the towing boat gear all the way down to two. All the losses were against, the losal man was against, and we also from the sea were against. I've twisted more seawater by my seaguards than the desk theorists in the Coast, who gave the professional advice to the Department of Fisheries, to recommend going down to just two tugs. Because it's not in the real world when we get to the actual situation and we're going to see the green pin in the eyes and have to look in the sea. Here a package has been negotiated in this budget. I cannot vote against it, because we need a budget. And I'm very sorry that SV didn't manage to find space for the 57 million. kr, which a tugboat will cost in the year, and which are peanuts in the broad context when we look at the risk. So I'm not going to vote against, but I just want to say it from this pulpit that this is a risk to security. It's slow Russian rule, and it's not environmentally friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1327	Is it proper medicine to reduce the duplication in Norwegian industry and use more oil money and so make Norway more dependent on oil, or cut into important growth packages, for example. fisheries, or to remove competitive measures such as: the CO2 compensation scheme? Of course not. There is a great responsibility on the part of the government of Solberg when they are making Norway even more dependent on oil by taking off its oil assets to pay off its huge taxes. Kronor pressure and higher interest rates can result quickly. For our business, increasing crown price means reduced competitiveness and unsafe jobs. Power-processing industries have a decisive role to play in housing and workplaces throughout the country. This is precisely why the Labour Party is working hard to get schemes that guarantee industry access to long-term power at decent prices. The crown of this work was the CO2 compensation scheme. Our hydroelectric industry was screened for the part of the power price that came from the fact that European power plants had to buy quotas for their CO2 emissions. When the Right Party and the Progress Party presented their budget, we got a lot of rhetoric about competitiveness, less oil dependency and growth-promoting tax cuts. The reality for us in the West in particular, and in the country in general, is that blue-blue policy is a threat to both jobs and housing – for example, that the fishing industry, which applies to our entire long-range coast, should lose all the package of measures, yes, not even our fishermen should get tax cuts. The cut in CO2 compensation schemes triggered strong reactions from industry, trade unions and local politicians across the country. In my home country there were many despairing telephones from Høyanger, Årdal and Bremanger over unexpected and short-term suggestions. Finally, the civil plural passed away from this, and there was agreement to adopt the red-green government's proposal at that point. That is good, but the blue-blue budget proposal has nevertheless created uncertainty about the industry's framework conditions. Hydro Director Halvor Molland said to Haugesunds Avis on 14 November: ‘These sudden and unexpected changes in the framework conditions make planning for the future even more demanding. Large, long-term investments in Norway — as we have seen in recent years — are becoming more difficult to imagine. The government spokespersons strongly defended the system until the last minute. So we're afraid that this presented will show up again at the next crossroads. The Labour Party will set up workplaces and communities. We will fight against cuts in the CO2 compensation system, and for a defensive economic policy that ensures our industry good, long-term and sustainable framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1364	This debate has been special. He's special in a weird way. It's simply because I don't feel that a person gets an answer to the questions. I also don't feel like getting a clear debate. My impression is simply that a non-responder to the questions a minister is trying to ask. Thus we hang in a hangover – there will be some kind of practice I don't think anyone is particularly excited about. I tried to get an answer to a simple question, and it is: when a removes direct investment that Norway has had either fisheries or regional development, and refers to inheritance and wealth, it will negatively impact geographically. It's a reality, it's very simple -- it's open. So I'm trying to get an answer if the minister doesn't see this problem. Then the minister starts talking about R & D, something completely different, and that one has been heading north. Then I also ask the question to the Progress Party, to the representative Korsberg. He pretended that he didn't get the question and talk about anything else, so did he. And that's what it's done -- no clear answers to that. Then the Hill-Jensen comes from the Right and in his eagerness he claims that the government has cut the inheritance tax and property tax, which will lead to 750 million. kr i increase income to those with inheritance and wealth in the north, i.e. money that will go straight from their income and to investment in R & D, innovation, research, etc. Where do they come from? In my calculations, according to Tax North, Nordics have paid a total of 61 million. DKK in inheritance tax before this tax change – SEK 61 million. kr. That's 3 pst. of the total inheritance fee in Norway, although we are 9 pst. of the population. In the case of wealth, total taxes on wealth in the north are 522 million. kr. How does the representative manage to get 750 million? kr out of this? They haven't cut all the wealth taxes yet, although that's what might be the goal. Not even if you cut everything, you'll get 750 million. kr. How can one claim that these increase tax revenue will lead directly to innovation, development, etc.? Economists have shown that there is a very weak context. It's a very dissatisfying discussion we have here, but it's obvious that the strategy of government will favor those who are already rich. It is the so-called Matthew effect from the Gospel: For he who has, shall get in abundance, and it does not pray Norway... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1377	It has probably been a fairly predictable debate in many ways. I understand that it has been said less about the two-part division of Norwegian business in this debate than before. It may not be so strange when right-wing parties today choose to cut in some of the industries that are most important to the mainland industry in Norway. It is clear that what lies in the budgets in the field of business is precisely a turning point – from an active and more targeted industrial policy to more tax havens. There have also been the answers here today to the questions that have been asked about this. It's been: we've been spending more on tax havens, we're spending more on transportation. So let's think about it a little bit more. As far as transportation is concerned, the effort that you have on national roads will help to build about 4 km more highway next year. I cannot see that it is going to be decisive in relation to the competitiveness of Norwegian industry or not. But the overall increase of the red-green government in the field of transport can probably have an impact on Norwegian business. In terms of the cut and the ratio shown there, in my county, it meant the cut of regional expansion, 30 million. kr minus, and the increase in county roads meant 7 million. NOK plus. It's clear which way the accounts are going. Transport is no savior for the Right and the Advance Party in this context. Cuts far exceed what you charge for transportation. With regard to the tax side, some of us have pointed out that the tax relief to business, and the companies in particular, are actually quite modest in relation to the personal tax relief. We have to include in the picture that the government also chooses to increase the mineral oil price by 600 million. kr during the autumn. Then I understand that someone might get a little annoyed that we are bringing forward the inheritance fee. It is possible that the representative fleet thinks it is a bit hollow to point it out, but if the representative fleet thinks so, I wonder why all day the government parties found it necessary to reduce a sample to assess the consequences of the inheritance tax – if it is hollow. In the case of state ownership, the Central Party has no objective of maximising the ownership of the country in the business world. It might be right to sell Entra, but it has to happen in a neat way. It's the cleanliness associated with the state that owns, that we're concerned about in this context. Because before selling Entra, you should have actually had a review of the portfolio, and you should have also submitted a case to Stortinget. Instead, what is now proposed appears to be an ideological ‘neck over head’ manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1394	The power-processing industry is established around the district of Norway. In a lot of municipalities, it's the important corner stone company, like Eramet, for example. is in my municipality of Kvinesdal. This industry is exposed to competition and marks the division of the economy. Therefore, this industry does not need such proposals from the Right-wing Party Government on cuts in CO2 compensation – contrary to the electoral campaign on bipartisanism and predictability. The members of the Workers' Party and the Centre of the Committee show in our remarks that the land-based power-processing industry has a central role in a sustainable future. With purely Norwegian power, long-term competitive framework conditions and continued targeted development of technological solutions for minimal resource and energy use, we believe that this industry can become the global winner of the future and an increasingly important contributor to the Norwegian economy. We also see that it is very important that this industry has long-term, predictable framework conditions and that it is facilitated to enable this industry to develop further in Norway. That is why I ask the Minister to note this, and I also want to challenge her to comment on whether the government intends to do something so that this industry can evolve. Another thing I also want to get into is how the blue-blue government now, on which the representative Marit Arnstad was in, without any kind of process and with a pen stroke, chooses to sell Entra and Mestra. This is especially so, given that they themselves have notified a new ownership message. My conclusion about this management is that it is unprofessional, ideologically motivated and generally alerts about a new ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1410	There were more of us waiting for answers. The representative Fleet asked questions about how we can develop private ownership. Yes, that's exactly what this debate is about. How can we – that is, public – contribute to industries that can become world leaders? That means investing in research, but we also need more tools, using all the tools in the toolbox. Funds can be contributed through technology development, regional development funds, support for market work and a wide range of other measures. I just want to see – I see now that the Minister for Fisheries has signed up on the list of speakers, but that no other speakers from the Right and the Progressive Party have made it further down on the list of speakers – that so far in the debate there is still no correlation between rhetoric and politics from the government parties. When it comes to long-termity and predictability, perhaps the Minister of Fisheries or some of the other figures for the government parties can answer whether there is more or less predictability when cutting into established schemes that are also proven to work, such as the Marine Value Creation Programme. Is it more or less predictable when you don't know what the government really wants to do with universality or raw fish law? Is it the opinion of the representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, before the elections that will take place, or are they the ones that came after the elections? Will we listen to what the representative of Korsberg said at the anniversary of the Raw Fish Team that there would be no changes to the Raw Fish Act, or former Fisheries Commissioner Harald T. Nesvik's opinions on change? What policy should coastal communities such as Hadsel, Hammerfest, Gamvik or Senjahopen actually expect? Are we to expect discrimination from the aquaculture and whitefish industries to continue? Will the Minister for Fisheries use the same logic on the two industries in the future? I hope we get an answer from the Minister for Fisheries. In the end: it was also, among other things. Mr Vinje said that this government is a priority. Well, it's a truth with great modifications. The first thing this government did when they came to the table was to go straight to the honey pot, increase the use of oil money, first in the supplemental proposition, then in the new era. Nevertheless, we are going to total cuts in this budget to the industry that the Right and the Advance Party are talking about as a future industry. In this area, we do not find any trace of the rhetoric of the debate on transport that better results depend on a larger budget; we do not even hear a distant echo from the research debate, where the Right and the Advance Party said that the results are related to the size of the appropriations. What we hear is nutrition neutrality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1427	The debate is approaching the end, and we're looking closer to Christmas. There are at least three things that have been at the heart of this debate and that I feel in many ways have been clarified – at least on how the political fronts stand. As I understand the government, you say you want to be less oil dependent. But then I also find that more oil money is being spent on the part of the government, already in the current year and also for the next year. So it's gratifying that this debate has underlined very clearly that we want to increase agricultural production, we want to increase profitability, and we want to have an agriculture all over the country. That's good. But the government wants to liberalise agricultural policy vigorously. But it is not – apparently – a majority for that in the Stortinget. The last thing that remains in most articles, and most of them are concerned about, is that you need special tools to create new businesses. And many of those instruments have been chosen by the government – if it did not take them completely away – to reduce. An example is tree-based innovation. But the big example is the regional development funds, which get a significant cut of nearly 30 p.m., 400 million. kr, which will be marked. If it's not noticed next year, you'll notice it in the years that come, because you haven't started the projects that were in this. It is in connection with this that I would like to ask a specific question to the Minister of Economic Affairs, who I am asking to be answered. We're struggling with the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry. I have already mentioned from this speaker that we have a Nycomed Pharma business in Elverum and Asker, which has been a very good locomotive in the pharmaceutical industry. For international reasons, the Elverum business has been decommissioned. They have an unusually important competence, a large workforce and very good workers. The previous government promised to use the regional development funds and resources available, 1 million. kr, in order to create a transition, so that this competence could be passed on. It is particularly important to build up other activities in a two-part economy. My simple question, which I'm asking the Council of State to sign out before we leave here today, is: Is it the new government's intention that these means of conversion – it's applied for 1.3 million. kr – will be granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1444	Knut Storberget has been up several times today, and I would like to comment on just a few small things here. He leaned back a little, and praised himself a little happily because the Left and Christian People's Party have the opportunity to park the government, as he said. Afterwards, in line with the Council of State for Agriculture, he suggested that he be in complete agreement with much of what the Minister of Agriculture says. I sincerely hope that the Labour Party will see the challenges that agriculture faces, and that they will also support the changes and proposals made by the government, which are really the future and right for Norwegian agriculture. He also called for him to agree that reputation is a challenge to agriculture. And that's absolutely true. In the nation today there was a look at the wage trend for the farmers, that they had 10 pst. growth. It's pretty positive and good. But when the farmers still react with being negative, it's a challenge that the farmers have. They are in a way very negative at the outset, not under the previous government was there much heat in the agricultural industry either. There was even a riot with a central government council. So the reputational challenge also has to be addressed by the industry. It is not just the politicians who are going to face up to the challenge of agriculture. I have a challenge for agriculture: they must also see the possibilities and be a little more constructive and positive, and not as negative as they have been, as I see it, with both the new government and the previous government. In addition, there was too much mention here, including: the representative Storberget took up the misuse of money. Even if one spends more oil money in a year, it's not like one makes it a habit, that we're dependent on it. It's about using the money right and investing more oil revenue in a long-term development for the nation of Norway. That is what this government is calling for. Marit Arnstad misses the fact that someone from the government party stood up for the changes and cuts that were made in the committee. I have no problem standing up for the changes that were made in the committee this year. I recognize all the cuts that are made, and I am in their favor – whether it has been for the Food Authority or the tool tool or where it has been. It's about using our money on the schemes that hit, and that's the most important of all. Then we must be willing to give priority. It's not that even if you've had the habit of spending money on something, it's right to spend money on it in the future. It's about taking over the effect and evaluating a little over time. That's what this government has done -- they've given priority, and they've been willing to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1459	While we have had this debate, there has been a newsletter from the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen saying that the departments and the government have come with an early Christmas present, and I think that since it is mentioned in the vote, I would like to send it out. The Christmas present applies to wild breeds, that it is not moved from the Ministry of the Environment, which has at least been thought of. It's a Christmas present for which the Christian People's Party is very pleased. So over to something that Councillor Listhaug spoke about in his speech, and that there is a political consensus about: increasing food production. Yes, we're going to increase the food production by 1 pst. The next 20 years, given that the population, hopefully, is growing so much, and we should increase food production through Norwegian resources. But then the question is what that means. That means we don't have to build up the best food soil, but it has to be used to produce food. Then it must also mean that we must have increased revenues, and the majority of the committee, consisting of the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, today say that it can be achieved through increased target prices, increased transfers through the agricultural agreement and through reduced taxes and taxes. So we know that guidance, research and development and innovation are important in this sector too in order to be able to produce more food. And we have to bring with us new farmers: someone who wants to be farmers tomorrow, maybe, when Mom and Dad hang up. Norwegian food is of high quality. It's caused by a lot of factors. We have good animal health, good food safety, good farmers and an innovative food industry – the largest global value chain in mainland Norway, yes, we go from the ground to the table and from the sea to the table. That's good consumer policy. But this innovation that the food industry has has not come about by itself. There has been a conscious investment through public research and development, but perhaps as important is the commitment and awareness of the food industry itself with regard to conscious leaders and a conscious commitment to research and development and innovative and new solutions and new products for us as consumers. That is why I am pleased that in the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party here in Stortinget we were able to put back some of the cuts from the Ministry of Agriculture that were cut off to the Research Council. It is important for increased self-sufficiency, increased consumer focus and increased focus on the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1472	This has been an interesting debate, in which the opposition has been talking hot about old kelphers, and I feel that the growing migration and innovation challenges of the fishing industry are being addressed to a small extent. The truth is that when we looked at some of the measures proposed by the outgoing government, we saw that several of them needed updates. It does not have dramatic consequences, as the chairman of the Committee said, with the cut and adjustments made to the leadership grant. The truth is that the proposal for 2014 is more in line with what has been needed in the current year and the main management mechanisms, and what we want to achieve with it is being continued. Safety training for fishermen is continued at a level that ensures that the basic course is still fully funded by the State — important for new recruitment and an important signal of the importance of accident prevention work related to the fishing profession. Two fishermen have requested this travel allowance, and the number of fishermen asking for reimbursement for these refresher courses has in fact also been reduced in recent years. In the case of the lineage grant, I stand firm that it is going backwards into the future to reintroduce such a scheme. We have an agquota system today that aims to stimulate more line-based fish. It works, and we want to keep going. Then I understand from the debate and after hearing the representative Martin Henriksen twice that you are sorry that you lost the election. One is sorry that one no longer has the hand on the steering wheel of the fisheries policy, but so it is that Norwegian voters have decided otherwise, they have chosen another majority to govern the country. Then I have to be allowed to say that you describe the challenges in the fishing industry as if they arose yesterday. They've built up over the years. The Labour Party has been with the Minister for Fisheries and has not been able to put in place measures that could be put in place a long time ago. But I'm glad that I inherited a public sample that's just about to look at new measures to improve competitiveness into the fishing industry. I have great hopes for that sample to deliver good, wise proposals for action on how to achieve more innovation and more skills building. I also have great expectations that the sample will also propose changes to the legislation to allow the traditional fishing industry to have some of the same free opportunities to develop as the aquaculture industry in Norway. Had it not had more liberal and free frameworks, the aquaculture industry would never have been where it is today. We're going to be the world's leading seamate. We must then bet – we must bet on marine research, but we must also bet on the research that will make the aquaculture industry sustainable in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1487	I'm going to try to answer some challenges that have come. It was a question of what the Progress Party would do with the net pay system and its law-making. I'm not going to answer that, but I can answer what the government is going to do. We have already started a work to get it legalized. We have also started to create a sample to look at both the scheme and the area limitations in NIS. As for the roof, it was the previous government that promised to lift it; it was not this government. What we're going to do with the roof, we're going back to when we see the sample work. Then there have been some visits to GIEK and export credit. I just repeat that I do not get the feedback when I talk to the sole proprietor who the Workers' Party now receives in the opposition, but I take all the enquiries about it seriously and will go through and make sure that we have an instrument that works. The representative of Knag County seems to have been a strange debate. I don't know much about that, I haven't been in such debates before. But I guess I have a certain impression that the problem is not the debate, but the answers. The fact that one disagrees with the answers does not, of course, mean that the debate has been strange, but SV has a different view of tax policy than the government has, and I think that is reassuring in itself. Then there have been some visitors related to sales mandates for Entra and Mesta. I think it is absolutely right that these powers come into budgetary context, because they have a budgetary side. So there are many powers to the government, both in terms of selling, and in terms of buying. That doesn't mean that it's happening today, and that doesn't mean it's happening in an inexorable way. But when a review of the property stock of Entra is requested, I have to say that it was done in 2000 in connection with the creation of Entra, and state buildings were separated, with their buildings of purpose. So that review is taken. Entra works in a well-functioning private market, and then we're going to deal with the way forward in a solid and professional way. So to Elverum – the question of promises given to Elverum. I don't know what promises the outgoing government has made. I have not received an application from Elverum either, but I have received a request for a meeting with the rapporteur from Elverum. I'm going to be right over New Year to go through the wishes and possible views of Elverum. In general, we have said that we should continue with the Inland Committee, with somewhat changed terms of reference and composition. The challenges in the interior are different, and we hope we get some feedback on this. The application pot itself is located in the Ministry of Local Affairs. It's not otherwise cut 30 pst., but 24 pst., and that's because we believe that funds spent on the road are more important district and industrial policies than the one you had.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1502	Initially, I must be allowed to say to the representative Martin Henriksen, who was so worried about people living in the fishing nets, that I think he can take it easy where he sits in Tromsø. I live in a fishing complex, and it's going to be fine for us fishers with the new government. Then I have to remember that the previous government has been quite so active in voting down proposals in this room in terms of changing the fishing pattern, having a more market-oriented fishing pattern in the whitefish industry, having a review of the delivery obligations and having a review of the fresh fish strategy. All our suggestions were costed out the door, without anything you found necessary, and then you came in the campaign jumping with a package, because then it burned. Like the Minister for Fisheries, I am very pleased that a NOU committee has been set up to look widely at the whitefish industry and the framework conditions for that part of the industry. It's a good idea, and it's a work that's going to be useful. Then I have to be allowed to take a little round of this tiny linear supplement. There has been a broad consensus in this room, when we discuss seafood, that quality is important for this industry, both because quality is important for consumers, and because we are going to export a lot of this food. Today, the lineage subsidy is paid by some fish buyers. Why do they do that? Well, they pay the lineage supplement to the fishermen because they get better quality. The fish buyers who value the good quality of the raw material pay the lineage premium, those who do not consider this to be equally important, do not pay it. One of the major problems for the fishing industry with the regulations we've had is that it's almost impossible to find places where the quality is reflected in the price the fishermen get paid. So that's what we've done here. And it's strange that as soon as some fish buyers are so quality proof that you want to pay extra for line caught fish, we're going to spend public money on zeroing out that effect. It can't be like that. Then to the representative Knag County and the property tax. It's possible we're sitting with different numbers, but the principle is simply that once you have removed the inheritance tax and the property tax, it's actually the capital that's extra in the country. Then we're going to see if Krag County is right for 600 million. NOK, or if I'm right for 750 million. kr. The difference between my entrance to that part and Knag Fylkesnes’ entrance is that I am firmly convinced that the money in business will grow more jobs and more businesses, they will grow business development, business development, and it will grow safer and more profitable jobs. Business skills to think ahead and take the steps themselves, when they only have the capital. That's why removing taxes on wealth is so important. Finally, the seafood industry has one thing to do, and that's to look at itself completely. It does with this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1518	Finally, I would like to say that there is no such demonstrable link between asset tax relief and industrial development. It has been used as an excuse when talking about international development, including in individual countries — it is called the trickle down effect in English. In Norwegian we say, when it rains on the priest, it drips on the clock. But it doesn't work that way. The problem is that this government is spending money that is just as likely to be spent on large consumption by those who already have a huge consumption, to the richest. So if you're a millionaire, you get $40,000 in tax bills from this government, while it cuts in the regional development funds that the entrepreneurs are just going to use. When Abelia, one of the innovation companies, was at the hearing of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, they just pointed this out and said that this is where the money is taken away for those who are going to create the new ideas and come up with the new solutions. And to the Minister of Industry, it's just this money that you'd need in Hedmark now to be able to help a municipality where you've lost a big international company. They would have been needed there to create new businesses. That's what this is all about. It's not about someone who has a lot of money, and wants tax relief to spend it on something. It's about helping each other, helping entrepreneurs, helping those who want to start new businesses. And yes, tax divides. If you give tax relief, it divides, because it's given most to those who have a lot of time before, and at least to those who have little. It's also geographically distributed. That means that the areas where it goes so that it laughs from before are going to get a lot of money, while the areas that are struggling are going to get little. Just like that, this government says about the local economy, which is the engine of a lot of business, which is the basis for moving a business to an area. It's going to be a good kindergarten, it's going to be real care for the elderly, it's going to be a cultural offer, there's going to be something to do, so it's all right to be. There is also a need to do so — less for those who are already struggling and have little income, but for those who have high incomes, more is needed. So yes, we are concerned, and we strongly disagree in the direction that this government shows. It's not like, as the Minister of Industry says, that you've given this money back on the way. No, you've just given me half. When we were kids, we said, "Juksemaker, piper, take it back and give it away!" That's what you're doing with the county councils beyond. You take away the opportunity to cooperate with business, and then you give back money on the way. We've also been in the budget now, because no one is against it, but the problem is where to take the money from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1529	I have to make the words of the State Council of Malta my, that it is very reassuring to hear that we disagree with SV in most cases. One has to hear a lot before the ears of this, and the fact that the whole of business is wrong about putting up wealth taxes on working capital, which is what absolutely restricts the development of business the most, is especially to stand and listen to. But it is a change of pace in politics. In fact, we have confidence that businesses and individuals around the country are those who manage their own resources in the best possible way, including in the context of economic development. Clearly, focusing on framework conditions, such as research and transport, is a serious incentive. I would also like to talk to Henriksen about the discrimination against industry with which the Labour Party has run, and we should no longer do so. We're actually going to have development all over the country, and we're going to give opportunities to entrepreneurs around the country. Otherwise, I think it has been a liberating debate, because there has been no talk of a breach of trust from the red-greens. We have heard that in debate after debate, and today I do not think it has even been mentioned in a word. It might have something to do with that we've fulfilled. I would say to the committee chairman that the Executive Director of the NHO said it was a change of direction. It was a change of direction she put emphasis on. It's after work on a budget for four to five days – it's going to be much more exciting to see what's coming next year, but it indicates a proper direction for business. It's a very clear signal. But the fact that we have not heard anything about a breach of promises may also have something to do with such things as that Else-May Botten was out and promised, among other things. the legal fixing of net wages and salaries and the lifting of the roof. It created great expectations. It's not fulfilled in the budget that was from the red-green. That's when you had the chance. You have no chance, except to do it from the opposition later. I'm a little surprised at the whole debate when we get the impression that now there's misunderstanding and ragnarox around the business world. We're actually getting the opposite signals. The grips made by the government in the supplementary proposal are very good, and they indicate, as I have said, the right direction for industrial policy in this country. It will create optimism among those who intend to create the jobs of the future, but also among those who take care of and develop the jobs we have. So I'll say, it's been a good job of the new government, and I look forward to working forward towards the budget for next year, because then it's going to be even more fun in the county, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1546	I would like to thank you for a good debate, where I also note that we agree on one of the main challenges facing Norwegian agriculture, namely recruitment. I believe that we now have an incredibly good opportunity to talk about agriculture together and show the opportunities that lie there. There has rarely been as much debate on agricultural policy as this election and a new government has led to. That's why I want to encourage us to talk about agriculture instead of going down, and that we also work to get our organizations to do it. I meet farmers all over the country – I have been in many counties. What many people report back to me is that they agree that there is a need for change. So it's always the way it can be a little scary, too, but what's absolutely certain is that if it just keeps going at the rate that it's going on now, it's going to have pretty big consequences in the long run if no more kids want to take over. There are several people who have been involved in the energy fission system. Then I just want to remind you that it is a temporary scheme that was introduced in 2009. Next year we'll write 2014. If it is to be a temporary arrangement, it must cease at one time. We believe it's now time to do it, because this market works much better than it did. I would also like to commend the previous government for having put down a group, Forest 22, which is now looking at how we are going to manage to lift Norwegian forestry. Here we have an industry that goes largely by itself. The trees are standing in the woods and growing, and we have enormous amounts that can be taken out in the years that come. This can be a growth industry for Norway. What is now the challenge is that we are becoming a commodity exporter, and that we are not able to process the values that stand in the Norwegian forests. That's what this government wants to stimulate for us to do, as well as for us to take out more. Then there's a change of pace as we increase the appropriations for forest roads by 30 pst, and I hope that we will continue to do so, so that this can become an important industry even in the years to come. Thank you very much for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1559	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1562	I want to repeat my questions. The Minister for Fisheries will reduce the debate to make the Workers' Party tired of losing the elections, but that is not what this is all about. It's about politics. Whitefish industry has had long-standing challenges, and that is why we have also taken action, whether it has been a technology effort or a reduction in universal service obligations, and we are ready to deploy more if necessary. I will continue to give the Minister of Fisheries the opportunity to respond to what industry can expect. Are we going to have the same logic for the fishing industry and the whitefish industry as for aquaculture? Why is it right to invest in marine technology, but wrong in the fishing industry? I still hope for an answer to what policy we can expect regarding universal service obligations. Here, in its policies and opinions, the Right has been a sort of Fifty Shades of Grey in the last year. Should we expect the review right? Should we expect almost no change, which is the review tone as it approaches the campaign – the fact that the Right thought it was negative for approx. A year ago? And what does regionalisation actually mean for the fishing communities of Hadsel, Hammerfest, Gamvik etc.? If you're concerned about predictability, it's right and good to be able to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1569	The representative Odd Omland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1572	I perceive what the Minister of Industry said, so that there has been a review of Entra. When the previous government suggested that one sell down to a third, one would first review the property portfolio and come back with it. I can't see that this was a review of Entra's portfolio since it was established in 2000. I perceive the Council of State's answer so that you don't intend to go through this, but to sell Entra in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1577	I hear that the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen says that the red-green parties voted against so much and voted against a review of the delivery obligations for trawlers. I don't understand why we're going to have a review of it. We, who live along the coast and were born before 1970, have lived with and seen that the radiation ratio has not been complied with after the intention. One would deliver in them and those places to give business to the fishing industry and the workers around. We've seen it, we've experienced it, so we don't have to have any review. It would only have been a delay in the process. We've seen enough to feel it and say what we mean. I'm also a fisherman. After the blue-blue government made its entrance into the harvest, I am not calm. In June it was voted on the new raw fish law and the maritime food notification. Both the Progress Party and the Right were at the 75th anniversary of the Råfisk Team in Tromsø and said: We fully agree with this. It only went two days later before they said that we should now look at this again, including the law of participants. We're not calmed down on the coast, we're worried. To the Minister for Fisheries, I would say: what in the world does bait quotas have to do with the lineage subsidy? In terms of bait quotas, you set a certain volume to mackerel or herring, so you can catch it, and then you have to offer the fishermen to own the line. The lineage supplement is quite different. Then we spend money on arranging to catch fish with hooks, the oldest fishing gear available. That gives you the best quality. I expect all the parties here to agree with the fresh fish strategy: we are going to catch fish in a way that gives good quality. It's something completely different. That's the same thing as we say in business: it's investment for the acquisition of income. It will give suss in the beak and fish in the scarf!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1586	The representative, Ingrid Heggo, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1589	Today's debate shows with all clarity that the Right is best in opposition. Then they are creative and concerned that Norway should not become too oil dependent, and occupied with growth power in all industries. But when the Right gains power and forms, there is short-term and unreserved enterprise policy, where tax cuts are the only means of saving, even if there is no evidence that dynamic tax policies work, and not one country has succeeded in doing so. In the opposition, the growth packages came too late and were too small, in position this is subsidisation. In opposition, fishermen had to increase their fish deductions, in position they no longer need it. It is also quite wrong when it is said here that there is a great deal of applause for the government's fisheries policy. It's just to show the listener. Many came who were very critical of the cutters who were doing, and asked for the reversal of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1596	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1600	The representative of Gundersen was concerned with a breach of trust, or a breach of lift. Now I haven't been involved in debates in the nutrition committee before, but the only thing that takes me from this pulpit is that the government parties are actually standing by the cuts they've made, and are willing to defend them. Now the third explanation that came up about the removal of the energy fission system. In the supplementary proposal, it says that it is because there is a little too much competition with the case law. Earlier today it was said in a line change that it was because the market could cope with the sea. And now one says that's because it's a temporary arrangement. The only thing that's required is that they actually defend what they've done. And no, that's not what the representative Trellevik says, that this is being used for more striking arrangements. Some of it is used to lubricate arrangements in such a way that it will not be so painful, and some of it they have put back into the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. But most have been used for general tax relief, and nothing else. I think that is exactly what the government parties should defend. When it comes to looking forward, look at the Food Industry Alliance and the jobs they do on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1609	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1612	Just a few brief comments on Henriksen and Ingebrichtsen. In fact, an early request was made for a review of the delivery obligations. Then we had the former government, who first voted it down, then waited a year, then announced a hearing, which you withdrew, and then you came up with a new consultation draft that you were supposed to have through in ours, but as you found it timely to wait until after the election. So that job is right there. The Fish Sale Act must have a review. It's a new law. We've said it should work, and then we'll have to review it. The reason why we've said it should work is because it has several things going on, for example. is a quality part of it. It's important. Then there's a resource control part in it. It is also important that we follow it. It must be better for the fisherman Ingebrichtsen when he is back on the Finnish coast, that he gets better paid when he comes on land with fine fish, than that he gets 11 kroner whether it's gold or guano.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1621	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1624	The population also comes from a fisherman, but he's also a fisherman, so just when it's linear, and those things there, I choose to believe in him. I thought that the contributions to Hill-Jensen in this debate are quite illustrative of how the position is now moving forward. I've gone this 750 million. kr, as he thinks no goes to North Norway, after in the Saumane. The answer is that it's wrong, it doesn't. And the 580 million. kr, which I pointed out, is if a eliminates all inheritance taxes and all property taxes at the same time. Then you have that effect in the north. That's all. And the government hasn't. She hasn't removed all the taxes on wealth, so to speak. And how much more of her fisheries and district policy she's going to cut before she gets there all the time will show. In addition, it's important for Hille-Jensen to point out a tax effect that no one can detect, so the impression I have is that a person makes up a reality that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1633	The representative, Else-May Botten, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1636	I'm very happy that maritime policy becomes part of the debate, and that the net pay system is for discussion – that is, it's not for discussion, we don't want to take it away, but there are a lot of parties that want to improve the system, both to legislate it and to raise the ceiling. Gunnar Gundersen had some rounds on it in place, and then I think that now the Right has come into government, and has full opportunity to do something with both the law and the roof. You might not be able to be so tall and dark without having the measures ready. Then I can ask the Council of State: When does the Minister of Industry intend to bring about a legalisation of the net pay scheme, and when will you bring up the ceiling? In addition, it is important to know why it is so urgent to sell out Entra and Mesta, when one has not even assessed how the stock exchange listing will be and how the portfolio of Entra is located. There's no explanation for that. Is she coming back to Stortinget with this matter, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1645	The representative, Ove Bernt Trellevik, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1648	I take the word because several commented on the property tax, both Karin Andersen, Ingrid Heggø and Marit Arnstad. Of course, it's a great educational task to try to explain the Socialist Left Party's point of taking away the wealth tax, but I'll try to give an example. In my neighbouring municipality of Austevoll, there are many good entrepreneurs. One of these companies is paying over 100 million. kr in taxes on wealth every year. The competitor, who also runs with fish and boats, cages in Cyprus. He's saving 100 million. kr every one year. It is clear that there is a competitive advantage for companies such as this to avoid paying taxes on wealth. That's why many of these companies are moving out of the country. Norway's first pre-farming holding, 60 years old, went bankrupt on 1 December this year. The company continued on Askøy. In 2012, she had 3.5 million. kr in the base. It is clear that the property tax is killing Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1655	The representative, Knut Storberget, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1658	The right-wing representative Trellevik says the farmers are so negative. I've read today's Nations. The right-wing representative, Gundersen, says that business is so positive to the new government. Some of these two have to be wrong. If you read today's nations, you make an interesting observation. Just what everyone in this room wants is about to do: it's about to increase profitability. Income is rising for the farmers. This is due to good agricultural management, and it is obviously because of the customs regime we have, and it is also because it is clearly stated in the article that it is good for farmers to produce more and more efficiently. What's sad is that there's just these tools the government has notified you that you want to reverse. Then it's no wonder that the reactions get negative. We are not opposed to changes in agricultural policy by the Labour Party. That's what we're open to discussing. But there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1668	I got some questions that I think I clarified in my previous post, but I like to repeat the answers. The work on the legalisation of the net pay scheme is in progress. A mandate shall be drawn up and reviewed and it shall be sent as soon as possible to the Grand Duchy. The selection to look at both the net pay scheme and the area limitations in NIS is also under way, both with mandate and composition. We work as fast as we can, and we come to Stortinget as fast as we can. But it's going to be done in a real way. So it's not like this government has promised to raise the roof. That's what the previous government did, and it didn't follow it up in the budget. What this government wants to do with the net pay scheme, we wait until the sample has done its job. So everything has to come in the right way. There's no rush to sell Entra. We've asked for a sales agent. There are powers for the sale and purchase of a number of companies. The companies that Stortinget has authorised the government to handle will be managed by the government, without the need for a wholesale treatment. But we've notified a ownership message, and it's coming. But it doesn't have any hurry. It simply has a budgetary side, which is why it is natural to take it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1679	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1682	I just had to clear out an obvious misunderstanding of the way. To the representative Heggø: There is a lot of evidence that dynamic tax policy is working. Even the Minister of Finance has accepted that. There's operations there, it's just going in and out. So to Arnstad: ‘Stay by’ – it’s clear that there are several explanations. It's something else. But there is no one who has not stood by it cut on energy chips, rather on the contrary. After all, we have stood by and defended it both in lines and everything that is. So the last one: I think Trellevik said it very well: the property tax is a strange tax, which punishes savings, and it punishes the private, diverse Norwegian ownership in favour of foreign ownership or state ownership. And it is very visible in the statistics that the Norwegian private ownership is very weak, that foreigners are strong, and that the state is strong. We can't hold on to the good ideas in Norway. They're sold out. That should worry more of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1691	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1707	I think a lot of people this fall have brought with them the Focus programs on people who have had a problem with drug addiction and how this has ruined parts of their lives. Several of them we've seen, thank God, have done well, but for others, things have gone wrong. On November 29, this year, an anonymous writer in the Evening Post wrote a chronicle asking, «A pill for all that is bad?» The girl who writes this is 19 years old: "I've eaten 800 pills this year, and the psychologists will offer me even more. Is that really the best health Norway has to offer?’ – ask this young girl. Our answer to that must be no. There are hundreds of thousands who get these pills from the doctor, and you often get that in connection with the throw of life. It can be a grief, it can be an accident you've been exposed to, or something that happens, that either you need some pain relief, or maybe you need something to do a little bit better every day. It's a good thing you get it. The problem is when you get medicines like this for too long, that you might get side effects at therapeutic, usual doses. Because it's possible to get. Therefore, there are also clear rules on how long such medications should be printed, but unfortunately too little is being followed up. In addition, many of these medicines cause side effects, which are again diagnosed as a new disease, usually mental, but sometimes also physical — which in turn result in new medications being given at the top of the old ones, which may cause new side effects. At least it's often a mixture of drugs that make the body malfunction. And sometimes your head doesn't work either. I have had a lot of contact with environments in both Sweden and Denmark, which have worked much more systematically with this than we have done in Norway. Studies have been carried out to show that very many of the people who fall out of work — those who try again, do not do it again, fall out again and often end up with permanent exclusion from the labour market — have such an additional problem. What's kind of chicken and egg in these cases is hard to know. But what's quite clear is that there are a lot of people who get sick from the drugs they get, and it's a big task for the Minister of Health to see what he can do with it. There's been a lot of discussion about this in the hospital, because there's been quite a lot of action going on there, because it was discovered that a lot of older people had created a lot of drugs, took a lot of medications, and many people became very sluggish -- and maybe even got diagnostics that looked like dementia, without a reason for it. So when you managed to get this down, many more woke up and got good days in your life and also contact with the outside world, which, of course, is important to all of us. But for younger people, it's probably the systematics around this very bad. I have addressed this in interviews with former health ministers as well. Everyone shows goodwill, but in my view it has not been a willingness to look at this as the big and heavy and the health problem I believe this is. Sometimes you have to eat up, and sometimes I say that I actually think there are almost more people who get sick of too many drugs than of too little in this country. The ones I'm talking about now are not people who are looking for drugs. These are people who have sought help in a phase of relief from pain, so there's no rushing behavior in this at all. Nor do you seek new drugs because you want to take drugs, but you seek new medicines because you want to mitigate side effects of the drugs you get, or because the basic problem is there — for example. pain related to traffic damage, as we know. Many then struggle with severe pain and need treatment for it, but it has to be checked, so that it does not damage. Every time I deal with this, we end up almost without exception in the care of the drug, and it's about high-dose dependence. That's right: some of them we've seen in, for example, The focus programme has ended up with high-dose dependence. However, the starting point was not high-dose dependence, but a use of commonly used drugs in what is called therapeutic doses. Then you might also think that the health care system realized that this was not necessarily a drug addiction problem. But I feel that there is a lack of knowledge about it – I feel that there is a lack of knowledge about it in primary doctors, who continue to print such medications for a very long time. It's quick to print a prescription. I also know that there are a lot of patients who are asking for it, and who are pushing for it. But it's the doctor's responsibility not to give drugs in such a way that it can harm the patient. I have reviewed several of the instructions on many of these preparations. It's essentially B preparations. One is that you can discuss whether many of them should be on the A-list, based on as serious side effects as they are on them. But the second is that there's very clear guidance there. It's not hard to prove that very many people get this much longer than the way it's going to be printed, with quite catastrophic side effects for many. Adverse reactions may not be treated with new medications. A very knowledgeable person in this area, who started a project at Hamar called ‘Medicine against pills’, Rolf Torod Olafsen, writes to me in an e-mail that side effects cannot be treated, as little as drunkenness can be treated. This means that you need to remove side effects by removing the reason for their occurrence. Then we are dealing with one of the other major problems in this area: the tapering down of these drugs has to go over a long time and has to be done under skillful guidance. I've met more people who say it's harder to step on this than heroin. It has to take a long time, you have to have guidance, you have to have support all the way, you have to have knowledge of health care about the reactions that can occur when you step down. Therefore, I believe that there is a need for knowledge in the health care system about this – much better knowledge than it is today. There is a need for systematic cooperation with pharmacies to reveal who has such a printing practice, which is at risk to patients. It is necessary to build up separate units that can do something about this, i.e. recovery units, or an overall competence in this area, which is not available in Norway today. There is something related to different health institutions and some treatment institutions. There's probably a lot of good knowledge, but the systematic approach to this is not enough. It's also about, I think, a bad recognition for many of those who do their best to help patients, when you experience that what you've done, maybe have helped raise the problem for the patient. That's why I think you have to look at how to give this competence to your clients, in addition to the supervisor that I know has been working in the Ministry of Health. I don't think a supervisor will change a practice there, despite the fact that it conflicts with what is contained in all the guidance on the use of these drugs. I think it needs something far more to do, so that these doctors can change their practices and also get help to help their patients out of the drug addiction that the healthcare system has unfortunately brought some patients into.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1748	It's a very important issue the representative Andersen addresses, and as the representative has also had a strong commitment for a long time. Medicinal products are a good product, and patients who need them must, of course, receive medicinal products that are necessary and safe. Of course, this also applies to patients who, following a medical evaluation, will benefit from addictive medicinal products known as A- and B-drugs. Used properly and in line with current guidelines, addictive medicinal products can be of great benefit to patients who are struggling with anxiety, sleep disorders and pain. But as the interpellant is involved, such medications can also cause major problems. Harmful use may include combination use, longer-term use or excessive doses. Drug use can also be abused — including in combination with drugs. Approximately 800,000 patients are supplied every year with addictive medicinal products on prescription and consumption is unevenly distributed both geographically and between the sexes. Women use more of these drugs than men do, and consumption increases with age. Most people use such medicines for a short period of time, and only at doses prescribed according to the recommended use. Some patients continue with medicine over time, but less frequently than daily. Although this is different from the recommended one, of course one can discuss just how problematic that use is. A group of long-term users is provided with quantities greater than recommended. Some of these may enter a pattern of increasing doses due to a development of tolerance or, in some contexts, a desire to achieve intoxication. The prescription register shows that doctors’ prescription practices vary considerably. This is serious and may indicate that some doctors have a less conscious relationship with prescription than others. The impact of deleterious prescribing practices was evident in the NRC focus in November. I think we have to meet this with four main strategies. The first is to expand and make sure that alternatives to drugs are used. It's part of the guidance today, and we have to make sure that is followed up. However, the lack of alternatives may also be one of the reasons for the use of this offer. I'll get back to that a little bit. Then we have to make sure that practice is in line with what is recommended. And we need to improve control of the fact that practice is in line with the guidelines that are in place. Last, but not least, we need to give better help to those who have been affected by this. If we are to survive over-consumption, we need to focus more on alternatives to drug use itself. In many cases, drug use is linked to different types of life crises, which the interpellant had in a very clear way. Most people face situations in life where you need help to deal with the situation. In that case, medicinal products are sometimes a necessary aid, but one should try other instruments first. Medicinal products can never replace good human and therapeutic situations, but may be a necessary complement to conversation, exercise and activity for some in periods of life. The aim must be to limit the development of disease to the point where emergency and addictive medicinal products are eventually needed. It is therefore necessary to continue to focus on a wide range of instruments promoting mastery, both in cooperation with family, school, educational institutions, working life and Nav. For healthcare at local level, it is particularly important to be close to those who have, or are likely to develop, vulnerability to disease — with an emphasis on individual resources and opportunities. One of the main areas of government activity is to expand lowthreshold services for people with mental and drug problems. It is necessary to facilitate both the request and the provision of assistance corresponding to the individual’s wishes, needs and situation in life. In this context, it means that non-medical treatment and other medical treatment should be considered before prescribing addictive medicinal products. We need to pay more attention to the fact that health professionals with different competences can cooperate on the offer that suits the patient. This will include, inter alia: could be by employing several psychologists in the municipality — as part of the government’s initiative, and as such. However, there is a need to improve the quality of treatment for drug users and to improve the quality of treatment for drug users and to improve the quality of treatment for drug users. more rapid mental health care. The example of Stjørdal shows that many of those in other municipalities are in the groups who often receive this type of medication in the municipality of Stjørdal, with a communicative psychologist working against these groups together with their decision-makers. It is the responsibility of the individual handler to provide sound treatment based on adequate and good diagnosis and follow-up. Doctors who print medicinal products are responsible for monitoring patients and evaluating efficacy and, where appropriate, adverse reactions, and that the prescription follows the guidelines. From 1 May 2013, a separate tariff was introduced for the review of patients’ medicinal products by doctors. We don't yet have data on how the fare is used, but it's going to be interesting to get the results of this. The proper prescription and use of medicines will therefore also be a central theme in the pharmaceutical notification that the government is now working on and that we have announced that we will be submitting in 2015. This will allow the Storting to debate issues related to drug use, including the use of addictive medicinal products that may present special addiction and abuse challenges. Health authorities shall ensure that healthcare professionals have access to up-to-date knowledge of diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. An important contribution is the Directorate-General for Health’s work on updating addictive drug guidelines. This shall be published in January 2014. The supervisor is an important tool for general practitioners, who provide almost 90 pst. of the total prescription of addictive medicinal products. The draft guide provides concrete advice on prescribing addictive medicinal products. The aim is to achieve a good prescribing practice that can lead to fewer patients becoming dependent on such drugs and to a better provision for patients. The correct prescription and use of such drugs means that medicinal products are used on the correct indication, that the patient is adequately informed about their use, and that the doctor is planning to end treatment already at the time of initiation of treatment. The draft guidance document states that if the patient has used addictive medicinal products regularly over time, the decision-maker shall offer adequate tapering and there is no indication for continued use. The Health Directorate is working on revising the guide on the use of opioids in the treatment of long-term, non-cancer-related pain. Here general practitioners are the main target group. Electronic prescriptions have been used in primary healthcare throughout the country. Hospitals and district psychiatric centers don't use e-prescription yet, but that's what we're doing. E-prescription allows the prescriber to have a good overview of the medicinal products used. However, the patient has the right to reserve himself for access to the prescription database, and this may prevent physicians from getting a full overview of drug use. New regulations clarify the requirement for coordination and follow-up. If the patient uses four or more medicinal products, the prescriber shall carry out a medical review when deemed necessary after a medical evaluation. The County supervises doctors and other health professionals following concerns or complaints from pharmacies, relatives, police and others. In 2012, a doctor was given limited requisition rights, and three doctors voluntarily waived the right to claim group A and B medicinal products. It is important to follow up the initiative taken here by the interpellant, with the four main strategies I have mentioned in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1802	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for the answer and for the last time he said, that it is necessary to follow this up, because that is it. First, I want to say that when you see how this works on some people -- how people are completely destroyed by this -- it's quite heartbreaking. I also think I have to repeat that too many people are dealing with the use of too many medicines and over-consumption, but you can also get sick of therapeutic doses, i.e. small doses. Many of the women who get this consumption don't even realize that there are side effects they have, or that they're addicted to, before they try to stop. And when they try to stop, it's also very embarrassing, so it's hard to talk about this. It is also difficult to deal with the doctor, because it is the doctor who has not done what the health minister now says that the doctor should, namely, plan the end from the start and be on it. There is enough reason why we could also discuss here in a larger debate whether we really have time for people who have sorrow or pain or are struggling with something in their lives – whether it's not like having a pill or something, and then you have to go to work and farm at once. That's the way it is. We're going to sort this out by artificial means, and it doesn't matter – just standing on your legs and being ready. I believe that there must be more time for the doctors here, and that as a society – employers, colleagues, all of us – we need to understand that, for example. Grief takes time, or if people have sickness and pain, it takes time, and then you have to talk to someone about it. You have to get help. That's where I think we have a lot to pick up. But then these four strategies the Council of State mentioned. Alternatives to medications shall be used. I'm very happy about that. I was just talking about this that the doctor must have time to talk to you and not just bring out the prescription pad with Valium as soon as you fall a tear. It can't be like that. The second is to review practice and to follow it up, to have controls. Then it is also possible to use the pharmacies, as the sea wants to be in this control, but wants to do it anonymously, because they will not be blacklisted by doctors. It surprised me, because I thought the pharmacies were more interested in selling more than they do, so I felt it was positive. So to the last, better help: yes, they have to get it. But I'll challenge the Council of State one more time. Doctor Egil Nordlie at the Borgestadklinikken claims, and has been doing so for several years, that a unit for the treatment of drug addicts in each health region is needed. Can the Council of State imagine starting with at least one separate treatment unit in one place, so that we can increase the competence of this difficult field?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1819	I very much agree with what the representative says about alternatives, and that a pill should not be the answer to all of life's challenges. I think it's a lot to pick up by the decision-makers spending more time with the patients, but I think maybe there's also a lot to pick up by the decision-makers getting more non-definitive colleagues, for example. Psychologists and others, who can work with the patient – other health professionals who may have both better time and more specific skills related to the use of other methods. This is also about getting better pain treatment in Norway and having attention to it. With regard to control, it is now for the Directorate-General for Health and Health to set up a working group to look at the issues related to irresponsible practices, follow-up of the applicant, interaction, scope for action within the current legislation and clarification of the responsibilities and roles of the Health Directorate and Health Authority. I am also aware that the Pharmacy Association is now going to have a meeting with the Health Authority to discuss the management of the notification obligation scheme for healthcare professionals in pharmacies. Those who work in pharmacies who are healthcare professionals are obliged to report in the same way as other health professionals, and I think many of them want to do a better job in this area, which was also covered by the representative. It's important to follow up. In terms of treatment itself, I believe that there is a need to improve services in this area as well. An overall increase is in line with the proposal for a new medical speciality in drugs and addiction. The aim is to improve the competence of both specialist and primary health services to treat patients. Then all health regions have a responsibility to provide interdisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts and treatment services to patients with drug dependence. If we're going to build up a separate offer for this group, then a recording that I'm going to take with me in that work, because there's no doubt that this is a large patient group that we need to make sure that we reach in a good way and with competent personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1832	First of all, thank you very much to the representative, Andersen, who addresses an important issue. Based on what she has said, I feel that we have agreed on a long way to go. Dependence on addictive drugs is a problem, and when we first discuss the side effects and misuse of drugs, it may be in place to quote Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, alias Paracelsus, who already in the 1500s said that everything is married and nothing is without poison; only the dose determines whether something is a poison. There is a universal truth that applies today. All medicinal products are potentially harmful if they are used incorrectly. Therefore, we need regulation of prescription, marketing and use. The interpellant shall address the following: ‘Knowledge, treatment services and prevention procedures are not good enough. Knowledge of medical training, special treatment services, the right and obligation of pharmacies to report improper outsourcing are the relevant measures.’ The representative, Andersen, is entitled to improve both competence and procedures for prevention. The prescribing doctor has a responsibility. The pharmacist is an actor who should play a role, and it is not that the pharmacists will necessarily sell more medicines, but they will have better drug use. They can certainly do more here. However, the prescriber is the one who has to take the greatest responsibility for the patient’s consumption of B drugs, and it is interesting that a study shows that today a doctor uses an average of 45 seconds to inform about new medicines when prescribed. Overall knowledge of these drugs and their properties is too low in the population, for what are addictive drugs? Are they different from drugs? It is important to note that the legal definition of drugs is more extensive than the ‘population’ concept, which is usually limited to illicit drugs such as cannabis, cocaine, amphetamines and heroin. The legal definition — i.e. drug list — also includes many substances used therapeutically, including addictive drugs. Many of these means, including: six benzodiazepines and 15 opioids are marketed in Norway. In Norway, these are placed in prescription groups A or B. However, medicinal products in prescription groups A and B do not constitute a major difference from illicit drugs in a legal sense. These are drugs, and I don't think the whole population is aware of that. I perceive that the interpellant is – as I do – most concerned with those who experience side effects or become addicted through regular use of B-preparations for common suffering. It is also known that benzodiazepines are used in combination with opiates and alcohol. The use of addictive medicinal products is widespread in medical treatment. For the vast majority of users, these preparations are helpful in periods of life. They can relieve pain and anxiety, they can make sleep better, but then the challenge for some is that treatment poses new and greater challenges in terms of side effects and addiction. Drug dependence is a state of physiological, behavioural and psychological phenomena that may arise from the regular use of addictive drugs over time. Dependence is characterised by a strong sense of the need to take the medicinal product. Knowledge of the problems this can cause is important. Now I think what I've said to now is widely known among health professionals; it's just as much about attitudes among doctors and patients. For some, treatment with psychologists or simple conversational therapy by the prescriber may be a good solution, but printing a prescription or eating some pills may be easier in a busy everyday life. What is a simple solution can quickly become a new problem. We must strike a blow for more conversational therapy and a higher threshold for medical treatment. According to the Norwegian Centre for Electronic Patient Records, elderly patients with multiple diagnoses have an average contact with eight different doctors in one year. Several of these are medical doctors. A 2002 study by the Pharmacy Association revealed that between 2 and 3 pst. of patients taking 10 or more medicines at the same time. On average, these patients had been prescribed medications from three different doctors. So it's as much a challenge for patients to use different doctors as doctors to print too much. Initially, the doctor has responsibilities for his patients, but patients may refuse access to the prescriptions. There is no easy solution to the problem raised, but several factors can help. The warning system of the county doctor can be improved by better defining when such conditions are to be reported from pharmacies. One may become more restrictive in allowing 100 packages of hypnotics and sedatives, and one may also have shorter shelf life on A and B prescriptions to make it more difficult to re-use after periods of residence. In addition, one needs to look at how decision-makers can contribute more in this context. These are measures that need to be further assessed in the context of the notification of medicinal products. But most importantly, we need to work more for non-pharmacological therapy in dealing with people who need help in a difficult life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1861	No one should be able to claim that Karin Andersen is giving up! This is a matter she has engaged herself heavily in and fought bravely for for several years. I also took part in the debate on this earlier, so it hasn't lacked involvement in the hall. But last night I made my contribution from the last time we debated this and unfortunately had to find out that I could use it again. The problem is equally topical, and little has happened. Since the last time we debated this, the NRK Focus has created a program on overmedication and on what fatal consequences it can have. Karin Andersen also referred to this programme. Many people get their lives ruined, and too many die. The documentary was about a young girl – a young, beautiful, talented girl who is no longer among us. In the documentary, we could follow her parents' fight to get some answers – answers to how much medicine she actually received from different doctors and pharmacists, and answer how this was possible. The list of names of drugs was frighteningly long – the number even worse. I even had a meeting with this pastor for a while back. It was a strong meeting, a meeting it was not possible to be strongly affected by. Especially when you have children of that age, it's so easy to understand that the pain is enormous. So it would have done crazy good if we could actually make a difference in the future. One of my reserve children went – when she was enrolled for long-term treatment a year and a half ago – on about 30 different medications, and everyone was prescribed by a doctor. At the institution they said this was one of the worst things they'd seen, but I know this isn't unique, as the Focus program confirmed. The current government parties were working to get a medical report, which we got adopted by the previous big deal. Now we get the opportunity to realize this. That's very good, and I think that over-consumption of medications must get their place in that message. My hope is that I will not meet more people who have sad stories to tell – stories about pill use totally out of control – people who tell about a childhood where one of the parents was constantly in a fog of pillage, people who have been exposed to a serious accident, and then to be pumped full of drugs and have developed an addiction, people with anxiety and depression, who are not met with conversations and guidance, but simply with pills in all colors and sizes. But the worst thing about many of these stories is that they actually weren't about a need to rush. Drug use is easier to hide than alcoholism and drug abuse. Often the addict himself, or those close to him, has to tell us about a problem in order for the environment to discover it. The abuse may occur for years in the hidden. We need to raise awareness about use, knowledge of side effects, ways of stepping down and, above all, prevention of this happening. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget decided to establish a new medical speciality in drugs and addiction. But many doctors also need greater awareness, and pharmacies need more awareness. I therefore think that there are very good signals now coming from the Minister of Health, namely that a working group should be set up to look at irresponsible practices and actions, and that cooperation should be established with the Pharmacy Association, which is ultimately the ones that deliver all these pills. So all in all, we're going to look at alternatives to medicine, a new medical speciality, a medical report, a working group, a collaboration with the Pharmacy Association and new counselors, as the Minister of Health said. That gives hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1882	Can we learn from studies done in this area before? I want to thank you for the interpellation. Rogaland A-centre conducted a survey in spring 2008 aimed at all permanent residents in Rogaland, and I don't think Rogaland is so special about the rest of the country. The purpose of that study was to look at the experience of prescribers with prescription and discontinuation of just B-medicines and the extent to which the prescribers experienced the need for external help when they arrived at the phase that they had to go to the patient and say: now we have to start stepping down and canceling. The findings are quite special. First, it was 44 pst. of the responders and all of the prescribers who participated in the study had patients who received repeat prescriptions after initial treatment with B-drugs — so much that they saw that patients used them every single day. 94 pst. Of these doctors had patients where they were actually in doubt about the usefulness of doing this medication, but they did it anyway. 99 pst. stated that they had tried to cancel by stepping down, but that the patient was not at all motivated for it. 70 pst. by the doctors said that we can't do this alone, we need help from others in order to cancel. This result shows me that there is a need for much better cooperation between the primary health service and the specialist health service, and that there is a need for coordination so that we see who actually gets B drugs. Most of the drug prescription is done by the doctor. Prescription practices and discretionary practices are very different. One doctor gives B-preparations for something that another doctor would say no to, and it's in itself quite special when it's about so strong medications. Many doctors also say straight away that they experience enormous pressure. Could that be the case, as the interpellant also asked questions about, that we've got a society that says we can buy ourselves free from everything – that we shouldn't have some kind of pain, that grief is something we eat out of, and not something we both know and feel? Should grief always be dampened by drugs, or is grief something that actually takes time, and something that we as the community have to do with, in order to get a better life in the long run? It's interesting to ask questions because there's so different practices. Some people print little B-preparations, some print a lot, and many are uncertain about their value. Then the question, as the Council of State also asked, is whether we should not make any routines. He had four posts. I think it's important that we, as politicians, dare to say that we want to see the fixed doctors more in the cards and say that it's important that we have some alternatives to writing out B preparations. The doctors need to know about this option, so that they have a place to refer him to, whether it's grief, distress or pain. I also think that here we have to be better off using the voluntary sector, which can go more than a mile, rather than seven miles, along with those who are struggling. I also think that we need to get a printing policy that is in line with the utility, because if it's not useful for so many, we shouldn't print, because we're putting so many at risk of becoming addicted. We must ensure controls and dry to intervene when we see that there are doctors who print not only too much, but too much. It is ultimately the weak party that suffers. It is also interesting to ask questions about the time in which we have to say that we need to be able to look at the full transparency of patient records, in order to ensure patients against over-consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1910	Thank you to the representative Andersen, who addresses the problem of over-use and misuse of medicines in general and of B-drugs in particular. It has been eight years since the Stortinge adopted the previous major communication on pharmaceutical policy, Directing a course towards better drug use. There were three overarching objectives: ‘Medical products shall be used properly professionally and economically. The population shall have access to safe and effective medicinal products irrespective of their ability to pay. The lowest possible price of medicinal products shall be provided.’» I'm saying that's the first goal, that's that "Medicaments should be used correctly." [[...]] I share the interpellant's concern about the developments we see, when it concerns the drugs she has told us about. According to Steinar Madsen of the Swedish Medical Products Agency, as many as 40,000–50,000 patients use too much sleeping medicine and amusing medicine in Norway. 1.1 million Nordics took at least one prescription of indulging A and B preparations during 2012. Madsen says he's assuming that about 100 permanents, about 2 pst. of the fastages in Norway, prescribe too much addictive medicine for their patients. The main rule, then, is that most fixatives have a sensible and very good practice. The problem is that those who do not have it are not sufficiently identified by the supervisory authorities and that too few bodies are reported. It is clear that there is a need for better supervision, better routines, better knowledge and better control to detect adverse and incorrect prescriptions on the part of the parties. I note what the Council of State says about the four strategies, which seem to be very sensible — especially the fact that they need alternatives to medical treatment, and in particular the development of low-threshold services for people with mental disorders in the municipalities is very important. The overall quality and patient safety message says that a whole of 12 pst. is caused by the misuse of medicinal products in general by the injury to patients in the health care system. The main challenge is that health professionals lack an overview of patients’ actual drug use. The doctor prescribes the wrong medicine, too many medicines, unlucky combinations, wrong dosage, or he provides for poor follow-up. Nursing staff also supply the wrong medicine, the wrong dose and do not follow the fact that patients are actually taking the medicine. Patients are not given enough guidance. The drugs may be incorrectly used, or they may not follow up on them because they do not trust them. Another problem is that we have an excess of antibiotics, which are alarming, because it can lead to more antibiotic-resistant infections. I want to talk a little bit about what I think is a trend in society: the threshold for using drugs for small and larger plagues is lower. One symptom of it is when we can read in research that one in four 15-year-olds use non-prescription painkillers every day or every week. It's a doubling of the usage of guys and a 30 pst. increase for girls of ten years. High consumption of analgesics is accepted among young people. It's often friends that introduce the habit, and often it's parents that give it to them. Analgesics can be purchased in grocery stores and in gas stations. Accessibility has never been bigger. Ibux and Paracet are first among the most sold medical products in Norway, measured in the number of packs. Increased availability has probably been with and lowered the threshold for the use of painkillers. In addition, parents and family also have a great responsibility for the change in attitude we have seen. It is not surprising that the adult population gets a more extensive pill consumption when normal, healthy young people are well introduced to drugs several years before they are eligible. Instead of taking a slice, drinking a glass of water and going to bed to get enough sleep, you might take a painkiller tablet when you don't feel quite obvious. I have no faith that 15-year-old boys have twice as much pain today as they had in 2000, and that this is the explanation for the increase in drug use. I hope we will discuss this in the context of the pharmaceutical notification that the Council of State has warned him to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1952	I would like to thank you for the debate and say: No, we cannot give in until we have solved this for more people. Many people need drugs for disease, damage or problems, for a period of time, but the purpose of drugs is to get better and better from them – not sick. I don't think I can repeat many times enough that it's the knowledge of the side effects that's the main problem, because the side effects are so often diagnosed as a new disorder, for which one once again receives medication. It is this cocktail that the anonymous girl in the Evening Post wrote about: ‘Suddenly you are sitting with your own small cocktail of medicines; dangerous mixtures, horrible side effects or bad effects on you and your mood. Some people think they're going to be like a different person. Isn't it scary, when doctors give you pills they think shall do well, but ends up changing you?" It's quite serious. I know many people who have struggled with such problems. I've met them on Nav, a lot of them. They struggle with anxiety, unrest and depression. Some of it may be a problem they already have, but very much of it is about side effects and too long use of drugs without assistance, either with the practical problems they have in their lives or with being seen and accepted as the person they are. There is also no doubt that we sometimes also medicate differences, because people are different, and because all people are not the same and deal with all the throws of life in the same way – or that you are a little different. So this is also about the tolerance limit for diversity and what we're going to dampen by putting drugs in people. I think the knowledge is deficient. I hope that the Health Council will look at this, also in relation to medical training. I believe, as many have said, that the doctors need technical assistance. Of course, they need someone else to work with – that’s quite right – but doctors also need technical assistance in the process of decommissioning, or retirement, which is probably among those who know the professional language. I think I'd like to insist that we need to build an environment of expertise in this area, which is about both: both low-dose use, its side effects, and what we very often end up with, namely high-dose use and serious debilitating side effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1975	I would once again like to thank the inter-pellant for having raised an important and absolutely necessary debate and also all the others who have participated in the debate with useful and good views and input, which I will take with me further in this work. To sum up, I think we're going to work on some areas that may take a little longer, but that are nevertheless important. It's about building up alternatives, both in terms of low-threshold services for mental health in municipalities, and in terms of what many people have been about; just how our society is, how we face challenges in life, and what the alternative is to think that all challenges need to be met with medical help. Maybe more activity, participating in social communities, is a better answer. It is also that we are now working to prepare a new pharmaceutical notification, which will come in 2015. Some of the proposals that have emerged in the debate today are natural to discuss in this context. I'm also working on an escalating plan for the drug field. There, it would be natural to include work on the treatment of addiction. This is also about improving the supply of people with pain disorders, which is part of having an alternative to drug use. We have also said something in the government platform that we want to develop the fixed role, both in terms of competence, quality and how we work to ensure the quality of this large and important part of our healthcare. Of the more rapid actions that we are taking, setting up a working group between the Health Directorate and the Health Inspectorate to look at this with sound practice, which is important for action, because it is critical to get started. Another measure is simply to have a meeting between the Health Authority and the Pharmacy Association in order to see how we can improve the functioning of the opportunities available to pharmacies in reality in these issues, so that they can be better used in the notification system. A third measure is for the Health Directorate to provide an up-to-date guide in January, which we must work to actually implement and put into service in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e1986	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2002	The theme of this interpellation is the capacity problems of hospitals in the capital area today and in the coming years. Of course, the large population growth is positive in many ways, but it also requires that we build up healthcare and hospital capacity in relation to it. In the health enterprises of Aarhus and Oslo, the admission areas of university hospitals are now increasing the population by around 20,000–25,000 a year, and this seems to continue – plus-minus at the same level – for several years to come. To illustrate this, this growth corresponds to a new local hospital the size of which we see around the country every five to six years. This growth and this pressure are also reflected in the current situation of hospitals. While the normal occupancy percentage for good flow in a hospital – without Corridor Asians, with good operation, maintenance, good preparedness, etc. - is 85-90 pst. coverings, last year, Ahus, according to Samdata, had a coating of 104 pst. It must be emphasized that I know many patients who once got into a proper room at Ahus, got a decent bed, boasts of good treatment at the hospital. But there's something quite different for those who have experienced being there as Corridor Asians and have gained that experience. It also says a lot about Ahus’ situation that the bed factor for Ahus’ exposure range is 1.9 – i.e. 1,9 beds per 1000 inhabitants — whereas the country averages 2,3. At Oslo University Hospital it is 2.1. Oslo University Hospital has about the same growth in its area of uptake as Ahus, but because only 24 pst. of all the activities of Oslo University Hospital relate to their own patients from their own business area, and because local hospital functions are interwoven with other functions, it is more difficult to see their capacity problems directly in relation to their own population. Nevertheless, daily pressure and growth are also noticed at Oslo University Hospital in the form of overcoating, in the form of unsustainable waiting lists, in the form of a lot of expensive renting of extra resources to solve the problems there and then. I know, for example. for one of the orthopaedic posts at the Oslo University Hospital for four months this year, there have been more than 120 pst. coating – in November 115 p.m., to date in December 109 p.m. That also means many Corridor Asians on different posts at Oslo University Hospital. The problem for both Aarhus, Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East is that there seems to be no concrete plan to solve the capacity problems in the near future and in the years to come. What are we expecting? The construction of a new local hospital in the capital area every five to six years? Not necessarily. But we can't just cross our fingers and hope that someone finds a miracle medicine. It is often called efficiencies, and the Riksrevision was in a recent report that there is more to be retrieved. These included: time to lie down. In the country, it averages 4.2 days per patient stay. Last year, Ahus had had it down to 3.9 per patient stay, and this year I have been told that Ahus is now at 3.5 days per patient stay. That is, they've worked a lot on it, and they can probably do even more, but at the same time as population development and population growth, we see that we're getting more and more elderly patients with complex disorders and more diagnoses, which have to go into multiple wards, and which it's very difficult to get out of the hospital in a day or two. Often it just leads to fixations and to the fact that there are too many swing door spaces. At Ahus we see that 11.3 pst. patients, according to Samdata, must return to the hospital within 30 days. Oslo University Hospital has a slightly longer lay time, but there is a return in 30 days, at the rate of 7 pst. There's a lot of relationships here that work together. The greatest expectations of reducing the pressure on hospitals are enough for the Interaction Reform, but it works on a long-term basis, and this should lead to more people getting help at an earlier stage. At Aker Hospital in Oslo, Oslo University Hospital and the municipality now build a post with 54 beds, where patients who may be right to observe a few days may be, instead of having to enter a very expensive hospital, in relation to their needs. Rehabilitation measures are also being built on Aker. Health centres or local medical centers are being built around the metropolitan areas of Oslo that can help in the long term to ease the pressure, without knowing what it will look like, and can only be based on it. Although we are implementing efficiency and interaction, I think it is a fact, with the strong population growth we are seeing, and with the pressure these hospitals already have, that it also needs to increase the capacity to meet growth. The problem is, as I said, that it's hard to see what Aarhus and Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East have plans to build new capacity. Ahus has now used the hospital hotel's beds more like regular hospital beds, and reopened some beds in Ski, but as far as I know, there are no other concrete plans for new construction today. What has happened is that a working group was set up in Health South-East during the summer to look at, among other things. changes in functional division and in recording areas. They aim to provide some preliminary clarifications in May 2014 – it will take time. The transfer of some of the patients — if you consider it — from Aarhus, due to the strong growth, to other business areas can be sensible. But then it's important to look at their framework grant, which depends on the number of inhabitants in the catchment area, and to find ways to compensate them for that transfer until the large annual growth takes it back. At Oslo University Hospital, planning is very much about something called Campus Oslo, which is a vision that Oslo University Hospital will be built together into one unit in the Gaustad area of the Rikshospitale, and that the activities of the OUS at Ullevål Hospital and Aker will be completed. The vision is estimated to cost between 35 and 40 billion. kr, that is approx. four ahus, and it will take 30 years or more to realize it, according to the sketches. The question is about this new vision – about such an expensive campus, with contentious liquidations of Ullevål hospitals and Aker – will be disrupted in Health South-East, the government and the Stortinget. There are many large, promised hospital projects in line in Health South-East and otherwise in the country. The danger is that you focus so much on a large and expensive long-term, and perhaps interesting, vision that it prevents the necessary steps and investments to solve today's and tomorrow's problems. This is particularly true of the grip that formerly Minister of Health Gahr Støre and later – as I understood it – the current Minister of Health Höie has said that they are open to, namely to use more Aker again to meet these capacity problems. Yes, Höie went – as I understood it – one step until 25 November on TV 2, when he said that if it is most appropriate, he wants to use more Aker hospitals in the situation you have at both Oslo University Hospital and Ahus. It is quite obvious that this will be the cheapest and fastest way to introduce new capacity that can relieve both Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus. A report on the building mass of Aker Hospital a few years ago showed that nearly 60 pst. was in good condition and well maintained, while the corresponding proportion for Ullevål hospital was below 20 pst. So small investments are needed to re-use the local hospital in Aker. There are completely different costs of building new ones. In Aker, 12 good operating rooms will be available soon, when the caretaker, who has been there temporarily due to technical problems in Storgata, moves back. With some investments in the old but good medical high-block and emergency facility, Aker will be able to provide 200 local health shelters quite quickly, without the need for all kinds of local hospital functions – available in other hospitals nearby – in place to do so. This is, in my view, the only realistic approach that can be taken now, and that will satisfy, in order to relieve some of the capacity problems in the short and medium term at Aarhus and Oslo University Hospital. At the same time, there is plenty of room in Aker to maintain and develop the good cooperation measures built up there. We now also see how important it has been that we have worked to ensure that Aker is not sold, but used as an interaction arena and as part of Oslo University Hospital’s activities, so that we can phase in again more Aker Hospital when needed. As can be seen from what I have said, this interview is about the matter and not about criticism by a health minister who has been sitting for a short time. I would rather take this discussion in a positive way, so that we in Stortinget can also contribute and get more information about what the Minister for Health thinks about this in the future. Long-term visions and clockwork are good at ensuring that it can always be more efficient, but this must be combined with positive solutions to capacity problems now and in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2028	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for addressing a topic that is important, and on which it is also expected that he, as a prime minister of Oslo, will address, because the population growth in the metropolitan area, on which the interpellant is involved, is greater than a previous one. Health South-East has engaged SINTEF in a long-term capacity mapping process by 2030-2040. The survey will provide us with an overview of the capacity needs in the region in the short and long term, both in somatic matters, mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. This work will be completed in June 2014. The conversion work in the metropolitan area has been and is demanding. One of the first things I did after I took over as a health minister was therefore to have more meetings on the capacity challenges with Health South-East, Oslo University Hospital and Aker University Hospital. This was both to get good information about actions undertaken to meet in the winter of 2014 and to start working to gain insight into how a job with the capacity challenges in the short and medium term as well as in the long term. A number of measures have been put in place to increase the overall capacity of the metropolitan area. At Aarhus, a number of measures have been taken to increase capacity rapidly, to avoid the last winter’s severe overcoating, corridor beds, increased waiting times and deadline breaks. Action is being taken at the same time as in the medium term. Here are some examples: the acute reception is reorganized and expanded, with experienced superiors in the front and setting up an observation unit with 22 beds. The extension allows a faster examination and assessment of what patients really need, while at the same time providing the opportunity to observe patients who are not expected to be passed on to surgery or hospital treatment. The experience is that patients who were previously admitted are now more closely observed and treated in the new unit. Of these observation spaces, the vast majority can be printed after one day on average. Only a few of them need transfer to bedposts. The observation unit has been in operation for six months and, according to Aarhus, the county doctor has not received any cases from the emergency department during this period. Ten beds have also been created in a new medical surveillance unit to care for the sickest patients. I visited that unit myself a short time ago and saw the positive on it. This also means that ordinary bed areas are protected for some of the most resource-intensive patients. Parts of the former patient hotel have been converted into 25 hospital beds for patients in need of complex services in geriatry, general home care and relief. The offer opened in November this year. In ski hospitals, 23 beds have been used, mainly in view of patients who are almost finished, and patients who need relieving treatment. As of December, arrangements have been made with the Diakonhemmet and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital to receive some intramammary patients from Aarhus. The agreement is to increase the number of patients from Aarhus also in 2014. The hospital still has overcoating despite the measures I have mentioned. In 2014, the capacity for medical and surgical patients at Nordbyhagen will be increased. The same applies to the number of beds at Ski Hospital. The establishment of immediate municipal assistance in municipalities is also expected to reduce the number of hospitalisations at Aarhus. In addition to good measures at Aarhus, hospitals in the capital area have concluded an agreement to help each other at critical treatment stops, such as: in the case of an outbreak of influenza. At the same time, there will always be situations where emergency treatment may need to be prioritised over scheduled treatment. Oslo University Hospitals have good capacity in many areas, but also major challenges. This is particularly true in some surgical professions and post-operative and intensive activities. The OUS has challenges related to building mass, personnel and the organisation of its activities. Extensive measures are in place to upgrade the building mass of Ullevål and the Radium Hospital. Oslo University Hospital informs us that several bed posts in Ullevål Hospital sometimes have very high coatings. There are a number of projects in progress that will strengthen the capacity of the hospital, both in the short and medium term. At Ullevål, the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital, nine new operating rooms are set up. Oslo University Hospital states that it is possible to build three additional rooms as well as post-operative and intensive beds. The municipality of Oslo shall upgrade and reopen the operating rooms of the Medical Act of Storgata. This is planned to be completed by the end of 2014-2015. Then there will be vacant areas in Aker Hospital. Oslo University Hospital is in dialogue with Akershu University Hospital on the use of these premises. The municipality of Oslo also wants to establish several municipal emergency night beds at Aker Hospital. A breast centre is planned at the Radium Hospital and a prostate centre at Ullevål Hospital. This will bring together the trade unions and allow for increased treatment capacity. Oslo University Hospital is looking at the division of tasks in Oslo, so that the capacity is used as best as possible for patient treatment. Both the Lovisenberg Hospital and the Diakon Home want to expand their activity and have the opportunity to increase their capacity. The lack of specialist nurses, however, is a major problem in all hospitals. Oslo University Hospitals implemented several measures to increase the recruitment of specialised nurses, including: recruitment supplements and calls across the Nordic region. Unfortunately, these measures have not had the desired effect. During the summer, Oslo decided to introduce 100 specialised nurse training positions, thus increasing the take-up of specialist nurses in the coming years. Work is under way on the development plan and the idea phase at Oslo University Hospital. As part of this work, a more short-term perspective also assesses solutions. It is also necessary to put in place measures to meet building legal requirements. There is no doubt that there is a need to look at future solutions for Oslo University Hospital in the longer term, such as: may involve further expansion on Gaustad. In my meetings with Health South-East, Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus, I have put great emphasis on patient safety issues. Oslo University Hospital has prioritised patient safety since its establishment in 2010, precisely because conversion may be associated with an increased risk of adverse events. It was organised for systems, procedures, training and follow-up throughout the organisation and a central staffing unit for patient safety and quality was established. Oslo University Hospital has a common electronic reporting and follow-up system for adverse events and has procedures for reviewing such events in its departments. Patient safety and quality selections have been established in all clinics, in a number of departments and in the hospital management group. Own quality advisors responsible for patient safety and advice and guidance to employees are employed. In the autumn, an analysis group was set up to review the most serious events and to support employees, patients and relatives involved. The hospital carries out several research projects related to patient safety. A study of all adverse events and infections will soon be published in patients who died at the OUS in 2011. A similar study for 2012 is under construction. In addition, the National Audit Office’s studies and the evaluation project ‘Evaluation of the migration process in Health South-East will take place. Knowledge base for further development up to 2020’, implemented by SINTEF – in addition to that investigation. Here, the capital area will be a special theme. The project will be completed around 2015. Akershu University Hospital has worked a lot to develop an open and good reporting culture, and they publish ongoing information about adverse events on their websites. In connection with the expansion of Ahus' range of admissions, questions were raised as to whether the number of serious incidents had increased more than the population increase. In 2012, all serious deaths were reviewed as part of a supervisory response. The analysis did not find any evidence of such an increase. The hospital has placed great emphasis on following up the Centre’s 30-day mortality reports in 2011 and 2012. A quality and patient safety committee analyses all serious adverse events and looks at what can be done to prevent such events from occurring. The report recently presented by the Riksrevision is a useful review of the conversion of Oslo University Hospital so far. The National Audit Office points out many things that Oslo University Hospital is now working on. It's important to work on the challenges that the interpellant addresses. The Health South-East Board meeting on 19 December will therefore be the subject of a report from this working group – a report that I am sure will also be read with interest by the interpellant – where these matters are addressed even more specifically than I have in time the opportunity to enter into my reply. But the interpellant can feel confident that I am going to follow very closely up that the medium-term challenges with capacity are being addressed by Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2089	I think it was a good answer, which shows that the Council of State is ‘on’ the matter. I have a couple of issues about Ahus and a couple of issues about Oslo University Hospital that I want to follow up. One is: in the context of the state council going through the various immediate measures – which I think were even more concrete and proactive than what I have heard before, I had at least not heard all the details – I want to ask what is the totality of the number of beds at Ahus. You've been decommissioned by Stensby. What is the hospital hotel was in practice hospital beds earlier, because these were used by the hospital. It's hard just to add on these and say that the number has increased with the beds that are no longer called hospital hotels. I believe it is important to find out what is the real capacity increase at Aarhus, and I would like to ask if the Council of State has an overview of this. Here I have numbers that are overall very low when it comes to the real capacity increase, and I don't know if they're exactly right. Then I would like to ask you about Aarhus: as you have been inventive and good at finding concrete measures here and now – have looked after them – you will have the same situation because you get the same increase year after year. According to the forecasts available, there will be the same developments in 20 — perhaps 30 — years to come. Then the question is whether you shouldn't find a more long-term solution, where you get away and take a bigger grip, than finding emergency solutions, which solve less things here and now. The question I have about Oslo University Hospital is about how it works as a local hospital. You weave the local hospital function together with the total function as a district hospital, with regional functions, etc. As I said, only 24 pst. of the activity there is from its own HF range. When it is said that Lovisenberg and the Diakon home will take a greater share of the patients, some of the problem is that many of the patients who actually attend these hospitals today are actually applying to the Ullevenål metropolitan hospital. That's how the patient mass of Ullevål becomes incalculable. I want to ask the Council of State if he has any thoughts about that model of combining the local hospital function with all of the other functions in the way you do, whether the model is transparent enough to develop a good local hospital function.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2104	To the first question from the representative: I unfortunately do not have the opportunity now to give a complete overview of the number of beds at Akershu University Hospital. But it is such that a bed is no longer a bed in the hospital, because one has organized the work in a completely different way. There is no doubt that if you look at the total number of beds, there is a significant reduction in the capital area. But so is the rest of the country. It's not just a national development, it's also an international development. It is related to – which was also the subject of the interpellant – the fact that bedtime is falling and that a worker is working in a different way. For example, in the observation unit with the 22 beds in Aarhus, 800 patients are observed, treated and sent directly back home after an average bedtime of about one day. It is clear that with the old way of working, these patients were sent to bed over a long period of time. Here, a significantly better use of this capacity than what one did with the old way of working. In the case of Aker Hospital, I have said – as the interpellant said – that the Right Party government has no record of not using Aker Hospital. On the contrary, we believe that the capacity and available premises that Oslo University Hospital considers appropriate on Aker must be used, where one thinks it is a good solution. There is no doubt that we need to increase capacity both in the short and medium term in the capital area, and then we need to use the resources we have. Similarly, this government has no objections to using the available capacity available in the private hospitals of Lovisenberg and Diakon at home, nor to inviting them to cooperate and see if they may have the opportunity to expand their capacity faster than we can through the public hospitals. Oslo University Hospital works all the way with its organization. One of the main challenges is to put in place new patient-administrative systems and ICT solutions. When it's in place, it gives reason to think further about organization. It is also a process that the management of the Oslo University Hospital, in cooperation with the trustees, has already started. One will see from that report and the case that the Health South-East Board will deal with on 19 December, that one now has a very good overview of a number of short-term measures, and they present very key issues on the medium-term and long-term challenges. That, along with the SINTEF report that comes in June, I believe that we have a good decision-making basis to ensure the development of capacity in the capital area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2122	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important matter, and that in a way that is so free and open. It gives us an opportunity to look more forward than backwards. Responsibility for overall clarifications is political, and political clarity is a necessary compass for further management of this situation. Avoiding word solutions will not help the patient who is waiting for an hour or space in a corridor. Skilled professionals set up, often more than we can expect, but if this is used beyond the limits of propriety, good employees will burn out. It's not supposed to happen. As an achershus representative, I would like to comment here on the situation in Aarhus. Firstly, it is very good that we have a new hospital in Lørenskog. It wasn't obvious. When the state took over as a hospital owner, a new university hospital was completed designed by Akershu County Municipality. A good cross-political craft was behind this, led by the Workers' Party's county rapporteur Ragnar Kristoffersen together with today's magnificence representative from Right, Nils Aage Jagstad, and Dagfinn Sundsbø from the Senterpartiet. The plan was based on the best predictions of the people who were then present. When the State assumed responsibility in 2002 and the project was to be financed, a process that ended with fewer square metres and demands for more treatments in new, shrinked premises started. This hindrance, along with today's knowledge that population growth is growing more than assumed at the time 15 years ago, is part of the story to understand today's challenges. The situation in the metropolitan area is not satisfactory. It is my opinion that we have a good "her-and-now" understanding from the county board, the Riksrevision and several treatments in Storting's organs, etc. We know what the situation is. Further investigation, as some demand, will not provide much more information. National audit reports and large-scale documents are not popular reading. When I'm asked by people why the situation is as it is, I answer the following: the big change project in the capital area when it was about the hospitals was not well enough planned. The basic idea that a city of this size in the long term is better served with one university hospital than three is correct. Research and professional development will benefit from it. But at the same time: cultures that over the years have developed individually and shifting their professional tasks are more difficult to manage than you thought, and take longer than you hoped. I believe this should be said, inter alia. respect for all those employees who have been through a very demanding period. There is also a warning to other establishments in the country that are facing major changes. Now what's the way forward? I want to draw out three things. Firstly, stick to the vision of strong trade unions and even better medical research. The medicine is developing violently. Some of what was not possible ten years ago is possible today and even more so in the years to come. Typical for progress is that technology is advanced – in part very advanced – and requires staff with acute competence. Some tasks then need to be centralised. Secondly, be open to price adjustments on the road. Here I would particularly like to point out this with new population forecasts. We get older and are healthier longer, and many will need medical care in the final phase of life and in the last years. But then we have to plan so that there is a bed area in a room and not in a corridor. A foreign friend who explained the Norwegian word corridor patient asked if we had patients in the corridors in the hotels as well. That's a good question. Thirdly, we need to talk about leadership in the major hospitals. I believe the discussion about whether a hospital is too large can quickly become a wrong discussion. We need to talk about how the employee – including in a large hospital – will experience locality and have a visible manager in his everyday life. This Chairman must then have the appropriate authority. All results in a hospital are created in the bed rooms, in the beds. Then we have to shift more responsibility out to these important leaders. When all the bed units in a hospital work well, the hospital also works well – whether it is large or small. I hope these three principles are also the leader of the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2141	In recent years, there has been a huge commitment in the Stortinget to the capacity challenges and the conversion process of Oslo University Hospital and Akershu University Hospital. Of course, it's not for no reason. The final report of the National Audit Office shows once again how comprehensive, complex and profound the transformation of hospitals has been. I would like to pay tribute to the representative, Mr Bøhler, who, through his interpellation, is further contributing to an open and democratic debate on the hospital challenges in the Capital Region. I have spoken up all the interpellations, oral questions, written questions and representative proposals that have been promoted, and it is soon approaching 20. Bohemian took up a lot of factors that play into each other when we talk about capacity challenges. We can talk about bedtime. It is closely linked to the implementation of the interaction reform, how municipalities in the region are able to cope with the new challenges they have been faced with the reform. It's about building up skills, it's about having the opportunity to rehabilitate patients well in the municipality. There is no need to hide that the Right and the other bourgeois parties have asked critical questions about how the OUS conversion was carried out. At the same time, it is important to have the ability to look forward, as several have already said in this debate. A number of important measures have been taken, which we now believe must be directed directly at what is the biggest criticism of the Riksrevision. We have to be able to expect improved patient treatment, and we have to expect an improvement in overall productivity at the OUS. We must also be able to expect that the benefits of conversion processes will become clearer. If people, employees and politicians are to have confidence in large conversion processes, it is important to show clearly what improvements we are making. The reorganization at the acute reception at Aarhus is one of the important measures for change, for which I would like to commend the management of Health South-East and Aarhus for. In 2008, Stortinget received a report from the Health Authority that pointed out that the overall picture at 27 emergency receptions showed that there was a lack of management and management that sometimes provided irresponsible patient treatment. At Ahus, it is now the experienced superiors who work in front. This means that the patient’s status is quickly assessed, the necessary samples are quickly obtained, and treatment is started immediately. The Health Minister explained that hospitals are now treating these patients at the right level, and that most of them are not even transferred to bed. There is a lot to say about the use of capacity at the hospital. But most importantly, of course, the patient is given proper treatment and the safety of life and health is ensured. I am also pleased that health companies are now more closely and as early as possible in contact with the private hospitals in the region. For the patients in Oslo and Akershus, it is important that you receive treatment when you need it – not who owns the hospital or where you receive treatment. The hospital sector will always be in transition, and the migration process in the metropolitan region clearly shows that we now need a national health and hospital plan. That's the long-term vision. The Government has announced in its declaration that this is a priority area and that the Storting will be presented with such a plan. It is important primarily to create openness and predictability for those who work there, and for patients. We need a plan that defines the content of different types of hospitals, which defines the structure, and which identifies the needs of medical devices and investment plans. For the right, it is important that patients are treated in a healthy, safe and orderly manner. I would therefore like the Stortinget to have seen the need for such a plan in the past, because I think it contains the solution to many of the challenges we face in the Capital Region, but which are also relevant challenges in other regions of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2162	I would like to start by saying that I think it is great that the Workers' Party is now more involved in issues and challenges in the hospital sector in general and in the capital area in particular. It must be allowed to point out that the red-green government has been less willing to admit errors, defects and cows in our hospitals. If challenges are to be solved, one must at least recognise that one has challenges. As a representative of Akershus, I have naturally been deeply involved in the capital process, and when I also live in Lørenskog, where Ahus is located, this has occupied me a lot. In this debate, as I do in all the hospital debates, I would like to stress that I know that the hospitals are packed with amazing staff. A few years ago, I experienced Aarhus on the inside over a few weeks because of my daughter who had been admitted there. The hospital itself is top modern, and the employees were fantastic, but the corridors were full, and the systems and routines were not quite on the care, to say it carefully. However, I have always defended the employees and the hospital itself, as I have always believed that the previous government did not give them a chance to succeed properly, due to poor planning, the pace of progress they were imposed, and tight budgets with minimal means of conversion. That is why the debate is about organisation, funding and capacity. In the beginning when things began to tie up, I was a little overstated by the employees' enormous loyalty, which meant that there was no match between the feedback I received from patients and relatives on the one hand, and the directors and employees on the other. I therefore thought it was nice that the employees also later said about the problems they were facing. I didn't see this as unfair, but as constructive recordings and information. It is ultimately the Storting that is going to take its decisions, and then it is absolutely necessary that we also get a proper picture of the situation. I expect our new health minister to be more honest about the situation of hospitals at any time than we've been used to. All parties in this room are engaged in public health, and we are therefore served with greater honesty. The sale of health insurance has increased dramatically in recent years, and the number of people who have bought out of health insurance has increased. This isn't a health sign. Public hospitals have had a high level of ‘standing’, and we have to fend for this. In an interpellation debate on 12 February this year, Minister of Health Jonas Gahr said the following: ‘The development of Oslo University Hospital is now on track. That's my clear opinion. The main coordination activities have been carried out. It provides strong professional environments and good medical results. Work has been done well with the Municipality of Oslo on the establishment of the Aker Interaction Arena, and strategies and plans have been developed in the short and long term.’ And on the other hand, ‘Changes in the capital area have received a lot of attention in the media and in this room. It may be appropriate to recall that there have been demanding changes also in other parts of the country. It is not the case that the metropolitan region differs in particular.’ These statements are not entirely in line with the interpellant's description of the situation, and underline the dilemma we have faced in recent years. I am therefore pleased that we now have a government that knows the situation well and acknowledges it. I am aware that the Minister of Health has had several meetings with Health South-East, Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus. I am therefore aware that a number of measures have been taken, as the Minister of Health also outlined. In the short term, action has been taken, but it is clear that in the medium term and in the longer term, much more needs to be done. I think there are a lot of people who have gradually concluded as the government: we need a comprehensive national health and hospital plan, and we're going to do that job properly. Being constantly in deficit is not good for anyone, not for patients, not for relatives, not for employees and not for us who are ultimately responsible. I'm going to follow this carefully. I accept where we are now, and then I am glad that, in addition to the planned intermediate solutions that are now outlined, the Minister of Health is willing to look at both Aker and private as a supplement. I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has repeatedly voted against using Aker as a supplement in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2198	The interpellant writes: ‘It is per year. today no clear plan for how OYS and Ahus to meet the rapidly increasing capacity needs ahead.» I think it's a timely observation. He gives criticism to his own government, too, because we can't expect a six-seven-week plan to be put in place, so I think that's fair. Important changes have been made, and there is a lot left in this process. Oslo University Hospital started a process of conversion. It was ambitious with milestones for how and when to make the changes. Sintef was in the process, and he was in the process of telling me how big Ahus was going to be. That's why I'm just asking: can we now rely on SINTEF, who is now going to make a new investigation about a man capable of meeting that requirement when one has seen that one did not reach the goal when one was going to build Ahus? The milestones one set in the process of conversion were adjusted and a new strategy was put in place in the autumn of 2012. It was important to get a realistic planning, and one would make a long-term strategic management of Oslo University Hospital. So we're here today. We have challenges with cows, as the interpellant says, and we have other challenges. What's left over? I've gone through all these inspections that have been. We've done a lot of aggregation at the overall level, but there's a lot of things left that will challenge us. Several of the major professional environments to be merged – that was one of the objectives – have not yet been grouped together in one place. Aker's day-to-day activities continue, and Aker leads us to an increased need for staffing. There are not about 30 patient courses that we said we should have in order to get better and safer patient treatment. It's persistently different ICT systems, even though we said we should get the same ICT systems. One is still waiting for patient administration systems, e.g. x-ray systems and laboratory systems. Nor does one have a common purchasing and invoice system, which was also one of the objectives. When I look at what's left, we have to look at ourselves in the cards to say that there is a significant risk associated with deployment, among other things. by new ICT systems. There will be a great need for investment in construction and, at the same time, not least in where and how to think hospitals in the future towards 2025. When we're going to involve all of these processes that we're facing, it's going to challenge us with the involvement and integration of the employees. If we're going to get this done, we have to take some credit for involving, and I think we as owners, actually have to take responsibility. We can say that local health companies have to take their responsibilities because it's a business model. We can say that regional enterprises must assume their responsibilities, but also the Ministry of Health and the Storting must assume their responsibilities, because it is a state hospital. I think it is alarming when the Riksrevision says that there is so much left, which is challenging and at high risk, in this process that we have to look at what are the critical bottlenecks ahead, in order to be sure that we get to the goal. And what are the critical bottlenecks ahead? It's radiology – x-ray – it's the intensive capacity, it's the implementation of ICT systems and investments, whether it's about rehabilitation or whether we're going to build a new hospital. That's why I think – and I've said it before – that we should have an external assessment of this, where one sits together and uses all the sub-studies to see the whole thing – to get a safer handle on the process in the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2220	First, thank you to the interpellant who addresses the challenges facing health companies Aarhus and Oslo University Hospital. I would also like to refer to the Riksrevision’s report on ‘Status for the implementation of the conversion mission to Oslo University Hospital HF’. The summary of findings states that the migration of the OYS group has not led to clear improvements in patient treatment: ‘Many better and more efficient treatment chains remain to be introduced as part of the transition. There is a significant potential for better use of professional skills and forms of work from the previously distinct professional environments.’» The OUS has had weak management across the clinics, and the Riksrevision is seriously concerned that such a comprehensive conversion has been carried out without profit-making realization. Finally, the National Audit Office states that, in their opinion, it is decisive that the owners will secure a good basis to follow up on the fact that the changes actually lead to improvements. A collective opposition required an independent external review of the OUS conversion before the selection. No my government council says external investigation is unnecessary. Nevertheless, I believe that the Council of State is concerned about getting all the facts on the table. The morbidity merger in the capital would lead to financial gain and better patient provision. Why, then, has this led to the opposite? $800 million. kr would probably be saved annually, and in 2012 the deficit was 2.4 billion. kr. The Oslo process has cost 3 billion since 2005. NOK in consulting expenses. The fact that we're doing health changes without being sure that the basis for the conversion processes will provide a better supply is something that we need to recognise after the OYS transition. Researcher Soki Choi at Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm has looked at hospital mergers and has documented that nine out of ten failures in them are more expensive than planned, less than the need and provide a poorer supply. According to the researcher, the successful mergers are the mergers from which the wish for mergers comes – from a professional point of view. The researcher believes it is alarming that patient treatment is always research-based, while hospital mergers are not. Politicians make decisions on the basis of the myth that big is good. The merger trend in the hospital sector started in the United States in the 1980s and came once in the 1990s via the United Kingdom to the North. While the countries that were first out, now have experience that clearly shows that hospital mergers very rarely go as they please, Norway is in the process of creating more hospital mergers. When you can understand the interpellant so that he wants a hospital colossal at Gaustad to welcome you, I will immediately say that I am critical of it. We need to learn from our failures. We have international research and experience to show that failure in the promise of more efficiency does not bring benefits. One important reason is that the distance between the rental and the added is too large. Researchers at Kjekshus and Hagen’s studies from a number of smaller hospital mergers in Norway also point to the fact that an efficiency gain is very difficult to achieve, and that a number of criteria must in any case work at the same time if one is to be successful. And in the real world, it rarely does. In other health care establishments, plan a major change and hospital mergers. Oslo's experience has not been alarmed. The idea that everything big is good is still alive. What kind of hospital are we going to have in Norway? In Question Time, the Council of State has said that he does not see the problem of major hospitals. The problem is they're not big enough. I disagree. The goal must be to have effective hospitals, enough total capacity, but not primarily the largest possible hospital. However, in Uppland and Hedmark, a new large-scale hospital is planned for 8 billion, without any specific counter-measures. kr with impact fields larger than Denmark's area, which may be replaced by six other local hospitals. This happens without the Storting having taken a position on or debated the principle of whether there are hospital mergers and major hospitals that are future in the Norwegian specialist hospital. The experience from the OUS and from other countries has caused someone to stop and think about it once or twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2241	I would like to thank the interpellant for the constructive perspective he has in this debate, and also the Council of State for thinking ahead. Thanks also to the representative Marianne Aasen for honest self-criticism, but also for constructive input into the future. We had an interpellation debate here on freedom of speech the other day, and leadership was an important topic in that debate as well. I think it's important that we take it further when we discuss changes in the public sector. There is no doubt that there are some short-term challenges in terms of the capacity of Oslo University Hospital. I have previously mentioned image diagnostics and radiology – which many people have been involved in here today – and post-operatives. In the case of imaging, it is linked to logistics and ICT. These processes need to improve in the short term, where capacity is better exploited. This is particularly important for admitted patients, since they cannot be referred to a private actor. It seems to be a major challenge at Oslo University Hospital today, where it is actually up to the patient to find vacant capacity outside of private sector actors. When you're actually sick, it's a big challenge for the individual. In terms of competence, the Council of State was within the intensive care capacity, and it is also a formidable challenge. Some patients have actually had the surgery cancelled up to three times. You've been through the entire treatment cycle, you've been through solid, and so the surgery is cancelled the same morning. It's a very demanding situation to put the employees and not least the patient in. So here's the big challenge that we have to solve in the short term. Several have also faced building challenges, and it is clear that there is a potential to exploit existing building mass in the short term. In the longer term, we need to look at solutions other than using old-fashioned building mass for future hospital treatment. Then we also talk about longer opening hours and changed tours. There is something to address there also in terms of exploiting capacity, especially in the public sector. In the longer term, I will raise the debate on the Rikshospitale in particular. It has mainly national services and will cover the whole of Norway. I then think that on such an occasion we should take the freedom – within the debate on the national hospital plan – to think a little further Nordic cooperation. Can we not necessarily establish a Nordic health company, but a national hospital with a focus as much outside Norway as in Norway, which can think big with the other Nordic countries in order to avoid the large investments and the large specialisations that we see coming into the future health system? This is also the case in the debate on organisation that we are going to have, and then the question of health south-east is one of the things we need to address – whether it is a proper organisation and the right size of a regional health company. Maybe we shouldn't have regional health businesses at all? And what are we going to replace them with? The representative Kjersti Toppe was in the debate in Hedmark and Oppland. I want to make it clear that there is some resistance to it, and especially from the Uppland side, who are in danger of losing both their hospitals, perhaps in favour of a new one on the Hedmark side. In that case, it will be the only thing in Norway today that does not have a hospital, a special organization. Now it is not certain that the states are quite right, either – there is another debate. We're facing some major challenges here. A strenuous debate is also the local hospitals, which are currently in the process of losing functions and many will have new functions, while building local medical centres with similar content and capacity, which do not have the name local hospital. So we are facing many exciting challenges, especially in the capital area, because population growth is so formidable, while in many local health areas we are facing a completely opposite challenge that is also going to follow us further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2264	The representative of Bohemia addresses an important question. There is no doubt that Aarhus and Oslo University Hospital are facing major challenges. The interpellant's relationships have been going on over time. Oslo University Hospital was established in January 2009 by merging the former health care companies Aker, Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet. In this process, Vestre Viken and Ahus were also to take more patients. It is a cross-section of thought that this process of conversion has been so critical of the state medical and health authorities and has caused so much unrest. The aim was to improve resource use and coordination, and not least to improve the quality of patient treatment. The university hospitals are the spearheads of research and quality development. The National Audit Office pointed out early that the plan for the merger of the hospitals was inadequate, which has been pointed out here in the Chamber. The owners did not take enough into account the challenges of building mass, different ICT solutions, the fact that some changes depended on others being carried out, and not least on the financial framework, as other health businesses have pointed out. The latest report from the National Audit Office shows major challenges in terms of time lags, long waiting times, failure of ICT integrations and environmental concerns. There are bottlenecks in operating rooms and capacity problems. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health is now explaining that action is being taken in both the short and long term to improve the situation, such as the establishment of the Aarhus observatory, the introduction of specialist nurse training positions to improve the operational capacity, the development of several operating rooms, and also the use of Diakonhämmet hospital and Aker hospitals as relief. It gives confidence to the population that action is now being taken to remedy the situation, and not least that SINTEF is now monitoring capacity needs by 2030–2040. It is important that we learn from the mistakes made in this conversion process. My experience as a member of different health business managers is that there must be clear ownership management and clear ownership of conversion processes. The management of complex knowledge organisations is demanding and difficult and perhaps well-known. It is also important to have employees and user organisations involved in change processes, perhaps it has also been approved. It is important to listen to employees who warn of failing quality and critical conditions. It is a management responsibility to create a culture of transparency and trust, and to provide room for quality improvements. It is the responsibility of the owner to provide an overview of needs, unexplored capacities and to have an appropriate structure in the healthcare system. A national hospital plan is therefore welcome and should have been in Stortinget earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2281	I want to start by commending the representative, Bøhler, once again as the Oslo representative, to have drawn Storting's attention to the conditions of hospital operations in Oslo. We are some representatives who have over the years followed the reorganisation and addressed it both in interpellations and in other contexts, but unfortunately met several former health ministers who have perceived it so that bringing forward those concerns and criticisms has been an attack on the system, yes, even something as sacred as an attack on the Health Policy of the Workers' Party. I have to admit that when I saw the agenda a few days ago, and saw that Bohemia, which now belongs to the opposition, had promoted an interpellation, I thought how to do in some other matters at the moment: Can you not give the new Minister of Health a little time before starting the attacks? But if you read the interpellation, it contains a strong self-criticism against the Health Policy of the Workers' Party when you find: ‘It is per year. today no clear plan for how OYS and Ahus to meet the rapidly increasing capacity needs ahead.» The reason why that plan does not exist is, of course, that those responsible for drawing up such plans have not ensured that it does. That is why it was also with great satisfaction to hear the new Minister for Health’s answer that does not involve minimising the problems — not recognising the problems — because it is a prerequisite for solving problems that they are recognised and that they are being defined as well as possible. We look forward to the estimates presented by the Health Council to the Stortinget. I will be allowed to remind you that there has been a political disagreement about where there can now be a different attitude. The National Audit Board has presented reports to Stortinget saying that the free choice of hospitals is a very sensible scheme. It's overstepped expectations. And some of what this free hospital choice led to in the first place, which was fought against the will of former health ministers, was an improved use of resources. The fact that the new government also focuses on more immediate freedom of choice and choice for patients is itself a contribution to balancing the demand between hospitals and making better use of the overall hospital capacity in Norway, so that one does not necessarily have to look blindly at a plan-based approach, where a hospital is responsible for the population in a particular area, precisely because it does not have the freedom of choice to seek other solutions. That is one point, while at the same time building capacity in the Oslo area according to real needs, as it develops when moving to the city. The second point, which we can hopefully also see now is a change in policy, is the willingness to use the capacity put at the disposal of the non-governmental hospitals. It also provides overall better use of resources, and it requires – and it was also some of what the Riksrevision pointed out in its time – that although some of these patient rights were introduced on paper, the system showed very little interest in marketing the voluntary hospital choice and making it a reality. Now I understand that it is in the policy of the new government to just make sure that the resources in Health-Norway are used as best as possible, where they are state-owned, but that at the same time you do not have an allergy to getting to the capacity that comes from non-governmental hospitals. Otherwise, I will conclude by saying that in many respects I agree that the merger novelism has gone too far, and I can stand behind much of what Kjersti Toppe said in his article.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2299	I want to thank you for a positive and good debate, which I got a lot out of listening to. I had hoped that we would avoid being in a defensive or attack position to either the government that is now sitting or the one that was, and I think that we have basically managed to avoid being. I have some comments. I can't comment on everything, but I thank you for many positive comments. What Marianne Aasen said about the fact that the capital process has not been well planned, I think it is important, and I have seen that several of the directors who have gone off on a row and row at different levels within Health South-East, Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus, have also repeatedly said. In particular, the combination of the local hospital function that is in Oslo University Hospital, I think it's important that you have in the back of your head when you're thinking ahead. Both of the main models for organising Oslo University Hospital, which was sent to the hearing in June 2008, separated the local hospital function from the area function, the regional function and the other parts – it was the ones for discussion, and it was Lovisenberg and Aker and the Diakon home that were the local hospital functions. But just before the board meeting that was supposed to take the decisions in Health South-East, they, seriously a few days before, put this together in a big city hospital, that is, weave together local hospital functions and the others. I think it was some of the things that were planned for bad and thought through too badly – how it would lead to a mix of functions. There was too much going on across – it was planned too badly. In the extension of that, I would say to what Kønaas Kjos was about, that when Aker was to be laid down, we stood in the Workers' Party instead of building up Aker as what is called the interaction arena, with some activities also at Oslo University Hospital, which is retained there until now. So it's used as a supplement, but not as a full-fledged local hospital, which I assume is what the Advance Party has meant, with the birth department and everything. It's going to be exciting to see if the Progress Party will be as hard on it as it is on the government that is now sitting in front of the previous one. There we have different roles in different phases. With regard to what the representative Toppe had to say about the new hospital giant, I feel misunderstood, quite simply. Because I asked critical questions – I said that the father could be that you are too hung up in a vision in 30–40 years, which costs 35–40 billion. kr, and I believe that government, big and also health south-east will put many question marks on it. There are many other projects in line, so I warned them that they are now committed to that thinking – and that they are among others. So there's a lot of spikes out there to phase in the use of Aker again, because Aker isn't in that vision in 30 years. Then I – when the Minister of Health is, and the previous Minister of Health was, so open to new use of Aker – am afraid that there is a resistance in the system, especially in Oslo University Hospital, which it is important to follow up on business meetings and in the relationship between Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2314	With regard to the last question of a performance related to Aker Hospital, I can assure the representative, Bøhler, that I have brought up with both the director and director of both Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital that the new government has no record of this issue, and that one must look at this appropriately, and have confirmed that it does not have these organisations either. So I expect that to be followed up. There is no doubt that this merger was too badly planned. One very often forgets that this was not just a combination of several hospitals; it was also a separation of very many patients into a whole new hospital. What also separates this process from very many other processes that have been completed, and makes this extremely complicated, is that it was too poorly planned. I believe that someone has now taken many important steps to address the capacity challenge for the winter of 2014. That doesn't mean the problems are solved for the year we're in. Those who work at Aarhus and at Oslo University Hospital are still working at two hospitals that are under a lot of pressure, where they are going to be Corridor Asians, and where there are going to be periods of very hard work pressure. So we must not believe that the problems are now solved. But one is better rusted for the year you're in front of now, than that one was in 2013. So I believe that there is a very important work going on to find a good basis for making right decisions on the medium-term capacity challenges as well. I fully agree with the inter-pellant – we may not have just looked at a vision there, because we need to solve the capacity challenges in the capital area before the possible vision, what it will now have to contain, will be clear. It is also important that all of the reports that are now coming, whether from the National Audit Office or internal investigations, are actually used internally in hospitals to get a common reality of the situation between employees and management, and that one also continues to work to get even better local management in Oslo University Hospital. There are parts of the Riksrevision's report that I think it's very important to take over, and then there are other parts where I think there's reason to say that the Riksrevision doesn't necessarily bomb, but that one has to think about what it would mean if one had achieved what the Riksrevision asked questions about. For example, the National Audit Office says: that one has now been given a good basis for much of what we should have out of the merger of Oslo University Hospital, but we have not achieved the full benefit of it. No, one of the reasons for this is that building conditions and ICT-related conditions do not facilitate it. Demanding results without facilitating them would quickly compromise both patient safety and employee relationships. I'm glad management hasn't pushed through.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2329	Then there's case no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2332	The President will ask for some patience. We have received new messages about voting that need to be included in the computer. It'll take a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2338	Then the president believes that we are ready for voting, and that the computer system has also received the completely new message from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV about voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e2346	During the debate Else-May Botten put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to conduct a thorough review of the property portfolio of Entra and to inform the Storting appropriately before the current authority to quote and/or sell up to 2/3 of the shares of Entra can be used.» The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e6331	Only A, II-XI and XIII shall be counted. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote in favour of A, II-XI and XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e6344	The remainder of A, I and XII, and over B and C, the 9, 10 and 11. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e7559	In Case No. Case No. 5 and Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-11.ana.ud1885e7571	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
