ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e105	The representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Håkon Haugli and Torfinn Opheim, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the so-called Deputy Representative of the Nordland County, Kari Storstrand, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, from 21 May to 23 May, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate for the Nordland County, Allan Johansen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e132	Allan Johansen is present and will take the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark on parental leave from 21 May to 7 June from the Workers' Group on welfare leave for the representative Sonja Mandt from 21 May to 23 May from the representative Susanne Bratli on study leave from 21 May to 23 May from the representative Dag Ole Tegen on study leave from 21 May to 30 May Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Vest-Agder County, Janne Fardal Kristoffersen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark, from 28 May to 31 May, for reasons of well-being. From the first alternate of the Vestfold County, Heidi Ørnlo, there is an application for a waiver from the Stortinge under the leave of the representative Sonja Mandt, on 21 and 22 May, for reasons of well-being. The applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder counties: Janne Fardal Kristoffersen 21-27. May and 1–7. ==References====External links== May. For Hordaland County: Jette F. Christensen 21-30. May For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bard Langsävold 21–23. May For the Westfold counties: Tom Stroemstad Olsen 21 and 22 May and Heidi Ørnlo 23 May
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e199	Janne Fardal Kristoffersen, Jette F. Christensen, Bård Langsåsvold and Tom Stroemstad Olsen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Oskar J. Grimstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e204	I have enjoyed on behalf of the great-great-representatives Per-Willy Amundsen, Henning Skumsvoll, Ulf Leirstein, Per Roar Bredvold, Robert Eriksson, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself to make a proposal on «a new administration of the country's wolf».
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e209	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue if necessary beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and No 2 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e238	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. This is the first speaker by Mr Tor Arne Ström, who is speaking instead of Mr Eirin Sund, who is the rapporteur for case No. 1 – then the representative Oskar J. Grimstad, rapporteur for case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e249	I refer to Innst. 305 S for 2012–2013 on the Ivar Aasen field deployment and operation plan. Since the debate on substance No. 1 and No 2 is merged, I will also comment later in the post briefly on the plan for the expansion and operation of the Gina Krog field, Innst. 306 S for 2012–2013. The Ivar Aasen field includes the development of the three finds Ivar Aasen, West Cable and Hanz. In the language year 2013 – with the 200th anniversary of Ivar Aasen – I think it is very appropriate. The Ivar Aasen field is located on the Utsira Height, where several other extensions are also planned, including: the large Johan Sverdrup complex. The operator of the field, Norwegian oil company AS, has provided a plan for expansion and operation. They estimate that the field has extractable reserves of 18.3 million Sm3 oil and 5.3 billion Sm3 gas. The operator plans to start production in 2016 and expects to produce for 15 years. I am pleased that there is consensus in the Committee on this important development. Let me link some comments to the investments. I'm glad that a large part of the 24.7 billion. kr to be invested in the project according to the operator will go to Norwegian suppliers. According to the Norwegian oil company, about 50 pst. of the deployment phase and 93 pst. of deliveries in the exploitation phase go to Norwegian suppliers. It is positive and creates ring-effects on land. In the case of the Workers' Party, throughout Norway's oil history, it has been an important principle that activity on the base should be carried out on land, and there is an important guideline in Norwegian petroleum policy that it is important to maintain. In this case, too, the operator has had to enter into contractual obligations before the development and operation plan is finally approved. Both in this case and in other similar cases the committee deals with there has been a discussion in the media about early investment. I would therefore refer to the fifth paragraph of Section 4-2 of the Petroleum Act, where it is clear that the Oil and Energy Ministry can agree that the rightholders enter into substantial contractual obligations or construction work before the PUD is approved. I would also like to make it clear that such contractual relations are at the expense of the rightholders themselves, and that they do not bind up the procedures of the authorities. This question is also relevant in today's case no. 2, PUD for the Gina Krog field. Work is in progress to find an overall solution for power from land at Utsira altitude. The Ivar Aasen field is planned with power delivered from the Edvard Grieg field. If the Ministry does not decide otherwise for specific reasons, the Edvard Grieg field – and hence the Ivar Aasen field – shall also be included in such an overall solution forcefully from land. This means that they should also cover their proportionate costs with such a scheme. The government aims to increase the use of force from land. It assumes that at the same time sufficient new power has been developed or sufficient new grids have been provided to avoid regional imbalances at the time of deployment. At the same time, natural diversity and consideration of the cost of action must be taken into account. With more new, smaller findings in the same area, there may be significant gains in coordinated development. A coordinated deployment can also make power from land a more realistic alternative than if the findings are developed individually. As a starting point, the government aims to provide the southern part of the Utzira Height with shore-side power. The government will take a final decision on this, among other things. in the light of the ongoing analyses by the rightholders. Today we are also going to discuss another PUD, Gina Krog. The Gina Krog field is also located on the Utsira Height, and is therefore also part of the same work as the Ivar Aasen field with an overall solution for power from land. Therefore, the Gina Krog device is also prepared for power from land. The field was detected as early as 1974, but has not been profitable to expand until now. Over time, the industry has developed technologies and solutions that have made this field profitable. This underlines the importance of focusing on the development of new technologies. I'm glad that in the two matters we are now discussing, there is an overall committee that insists that the Storting is in favour of these developments. With this I recommend the Innst of the Committee. 305 S for 2012–2013 on the Ivar Aasen field deployment and operation plan. I expect the President-in-Office of the Council to refer this matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Then I see that I had more time than I thought, but it was probably because the clock didn't start.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e285	The clock started a little late, but the representative got it right, you might say.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e288	On behalf of the legal entities, the operator Statoil Petroleum AS has submitted a plan for the development and operation of the Gina Krog field and a plan for the installation and operation of gas pipelines for the Gina Krog field. The legal entities are known as Statoil Petroleum AS, Total E&P Norway AS and Norwegian oil company ASA with different ownership parts in the field and gas pipeline installations. The Gina-Krog field was detected in 1974 and lies approximately 230 km southwest of Stavanger and 30 km northwest of Sleipner. Planned start of production is the first quarter of 2017 and expected production period is approx. 16 years. This field shows the number of statements that need to be made and the time it takes to compile them so that an extension can be technically and economically viable. In fact, 39 years have passed before the PUD is approved here today. The field is planned to be developed with a bottom fixed device with wells, process facilities for oil and gas and housing quarters. This device will be attached to a ship for oil storage, and the gas will be transported in pipeline to Sleipner for further processing. The extractable reserves in the Gina Krog field are estimated to be 17 million standard cubic meters of oil and condensate, 3.3 million tons of NGL and 12.5 billion. standard cubic metres of gas, and the expansion costs, the total investment for the expansion, have been estimated by the operator to be 29.1 billion in 2013. In connection with the announced changes in the petroleum tax system, the Council of State writes among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In the context of the PUD process, the Ministry of Oil and Energy assesses whether the expansion project is socially viable. For this reason, the cost-benefit calculations referred to in the grossing-up forecast for the Gina Krog development are pre-tax calculations. These calculations are not affected by the proposed amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act.» The representative Stroem was involved in the contractual relationship with regard to the Ivar Aasen field. It's similar to the Gina Krog field, so I don't go into it any closer – it's gone through by him. Impact assessments have been carried out for the Gina Krog field, and the Ministry indicates that it has not detected any conditions that would indicate that the project should not be implemented. A joint committee agrees to this. The legal entities in the Gina-Krog field shall actively contribute to the delivery of a co-ordinated force-from-country solution for the southern part of the height of the Sirarch. The Gina Krog device is prepared for power from land and shall connect to any joint power release at the height of the Aussirah at the time it is in place, unless the department decides otherwise for special reasons. Planned launch for such a co-ordinated force-from-country solution is 2018. Until such time as such a solution is possible, the Gina Krog field shall be covered by self-produced power from one gas turbine. A single committee suggests that the Storting should take the following decisions: ‘In Stortinget agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy approves the plan for the expansion and operation of the Gina Krog field. II The Storting agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy authorises the installation and operation of gas pipelines for the Gina Krog field.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e324	For the right, it is important that new fields are developed and put into operation in order for Norway to be able to maintain its production volume in the oil and gas sector in the future. We share these ambitions with all the other parts of the Stortinget, and they are visible through the treatment of the last petroleum message, Meld. St. 28 for 2010–2011 ‘An industry for the future’. We therefore welcome the plans for the development and operation of the fields Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog, which we have for treatment today. Both projects are expected to have a robust economy and both projects do not appear to have a significant negative environmental impact or co-existence with other industries. Both fields are part of a larger force-from-country project on the southern part of the Utsira Height, and since the autumn of 2011, Statoil has led the investigation of a coordinated solution for power from land to the fields Johan Sverdrup, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. The project has a business plan for design selection in the current year, investment decision in 2014, installation in 2017 and start in 2018. For the right, it is important that we take action to meet our national obligations for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. If new fields and major conversions of existing fields can find profitable power from land solutions, we want them realized, and we expect the various actors to strive for these kinds of solutions, including: by seeing a larger area in the context, as is done at this part of the height of Outsira. We have noticed that the Minister of Oil and Energy wrote in his letter to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 30 April 2013 that the preliminary figures from the operator indicate that power from land can be profitable. We have two plans for development and operation for treatment today. The third, which the government recently put before the Storting, on the Aasta Hansteen field, is still being discussed in the Energy and Environment Committee and will be debated at a later date this spring. However, these three plans for deployment and operation have some common denominators, and there is a rather significant contractual obligation before the projects are finally approved in the Stortinget. For Ivar Aasen, this is SEK 7.8 billion in 2012 and an exposure including cancellation costs of SEK 1.1 billion. kr. For the Gina Krog field, it's 16.1 billion. kr, and exposure requirements up to approval in Stortinget including cancellation costs are SEK 1.9 billion. kr. These two projects have a total exposure cost of 3 billion. NOK, and if we add the Asta Hansteen expansion to the top of this, we're talking about exposure costs of $4.3 billion. kr if the plans for expansion and operation were not to be adopted by Stortinget. We understand from the Right that there may be a need for agreements to secure capacity or control costs. That is why we supported the amendments to the Act on Petroleum § 4-2 in 1996 which made these contractual relationships possible, subject to the subsequent approval of the Storting. From our point of view, this was meant to be an exceptional option, but if we now look at these three plans for expansion and operation presented to the Stortinget this spring, for all of the significant contractual commitments entered into, with significant cancellation costs for society through the tax system if the projects are not approved. The right considers this to be unfortunate and understands that this can help to question the independent treatment of this type of project by the Storting. Since the application for extension and operation of the fields Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog has been handed over to the Stortinget, the government has notified changes in the petroleum tax in connection with the submission of the revised national budget this spring. I note that the Minister of Oil and Energy wrote to the Committee dated 7 May 2013 that both projects are socio-economically profitable and that the calculations made are not affected by the tax changes notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e341	There are significant projects that we are invited to approve today – an investment of over 24 billion. kr for the Ivar Aasen field and nearly 30 brd. kr for the Gina Krog field. On this occasion, a temptation can be made to use Ivar Aasen’s own words in the poem “They will always complain and kiss” – it was certainly a characteristic of the Northman at that time. In the North Man he says: "Let's start with the size kivast, Let them brag with richness and height! Millom Coaks I little can thrive, Millom Jamnings preferably I am satisfied." It wasn't borechaks he meant, Ivar Aasen – what he thought, was that there were other things that were as important as wealth, as just distribution and natural resources, that «there played Fish down into the cave» and nature with «near Lidarna green as Hagar», as he says in the poem. That's why it's probably in the spirit of Ivar Aasen that the field is to be operated with clean force from land, i.e. Ivar Aasen is to be included in the electrification of the entire Utsira height. The same applies to the Gina Krog field, which is also organised for electricity. Questions have been raised regarding the electrification of the height of Outsira. The increased CO2 tax imposed by the government in connection with the climate notification made this electrification profitable. The best and most profitable thing would have been if the expansion of the electricity infrastructure came at the same time as the other expansions, by Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog, so that investments in fossil power to be replaced by electricity were avoided. It was difficult to achieve, because a suspension of start-up will also have major economic consequences. That is what we also see in the discussion of commitments entered into in advance. However, it is stated in the Communication and in the Committee's observations that Edvard Grieg and thus Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog are to be associated with an electricity solution, with the Appendix 'unless the Ministry decides otherwise for specific reasons'. Then it is important to stress that the latter is a formal emergency solution, but that the work on electrification is going on, and that it will not be possible for any of the partners to stop this work. It must be clear that, on the part of Stortinget, electrification is necessary in order for Norway to achieve the objectives we set in the climate agreement, and a prerequisite for expanding the fields. The zira-free height of electricity would lead to an increase in Norway's climate emissions by one million tonnes of CO2 per year, while we have to cut at least one million per year based on the latest emissions figures. If the Utsira height is not electrified, 235000 Nordics must halve their emissions to compensate for the increase from the oil industry. Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog are in operation until 2030. It's a time when Norway has ambitions to be at full speed into a carbon-neutral future. It is therefore important to facilitate the proper investments for the future today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e373	Only cards from the Center Party's page: Of course, we give our connection to these two extensions. They are well described by the case spokespersons, so let me just underline what has been a fundamental goal for the Centre Party and also other parties, fortunately, in this room, that the expansions on the base are to give ringings regionally on land. And that's what these expansions will do. Let me also briefly mention the goal of the government for electrification of the southern part of the height of the Aussir, which is relevant in this context – it has also been described by the case spokespersons. It is an important environmental act and also helps to strengthen the market for renewable energy that we have ambitions to bring forward in the coming years. The debate on contracts concluded before plans for deployment and operation are approved is not new. For this reason, the Committee has also pointed out earlier in its settings that the operator is asking for the full risk of such a practice and that, of course, it should not have any consequences for the policy management.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e380	It's a matter we've been waiting for a long time, coming today, and a unanimous big one will say yes to both Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. I think it's a good idea that one makes new findings in areas that are mature, where one might have depreciated that one could find new ones, and also, as others have said, it's actually possible to use areas that were previously not as profitable. But my comments are two. The first one's on pre-investment. I experience the development that is in dealing with these kinds of issues in Stortinget, as a little bit of a failure. Therefore, we are clear in the remarks that we want landfill treatment to be as real as possible. It's clear that when you see that there's already more than half investment, there's a reason to put a question mark -- I don't think the Stortinget makes decisions on the bar, but at least it'll help to give the impression that what we're doing here is more sand than I like. That is why I am pleased with the signals that have come that this is more of an exception. At least that's what we want to underline. That's why I believe that at least sometimes there's something that suggests a lack of majority arrogance, where a person experiences that it's almost obvious that things that are adopted by the government are going to go through in the Storting. It's not like that. We need to have an independent assessment, and we need to have matters for careful consideration. The second comment goes on the representative Erling Sande concluded, namely electrification. As we also write in our notes, we are clear that this is an area that needs to be electrified. It's one of the best projects. What was previously an area electrification of Edvard Grieg etc., I record that over several years, Johan Sverdrup has actually been linked up. There are good reasons for this when it's such a big project. But I have to say that when you look at Edvard Grieg, where there's been investment in turbines, when you look at Gina Krog, where there's also investment in a turbine, it's the big investment that's being made, when one could adopt electrification and ensure that it came in parallel with the expansion of Edvard Grieg, Gina Krog and Ivar Aasen. I have noticed that it says in the papers that, given that there is probably an electrification coming, one on Gina Krog chooses to have one turbine instead of two turbines – and that is a pleasure – but at the same time one also writes that, given that there is still some uncertainty about electrification coming, you choose one turbine – a more environmentally hostile, but apparently a more robust turbine. It is a loss for the environment, while that turbine only has to stand one year before the electrification comes. Therefore, I would like a much clearer management of the entire project. The Ministry of Oil and Energy can be clear on and only establish that electrification is to come. Then one could also avoid making this type of investment, which is unnecessary when one could get the electrification in place. From our side it is important to point out that the electrification has to come. It's about making use of the possibilities that you have through that project to also bring down even more CO2 emissions. In this regard, I just want to make a comment to Gudrun, which is also another possibility. One could connect it to Gina Krog with a cable, which could ensure that the deviation that lies on that back-up platform was corrected. Through that one could perhaps imagine that one could get the CO2 emissions down on Sleipner by perhaps shutting down a turbine there. I see great opportunities through electrification of this entire project to cut future CO2 emissions, but also an opportunity to cut existing CO2 emissions. But then it is also important that there is a management that is clear that it is going to happen, and put leadership on the companies so that they also have to work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e407	Today, the Storting will deal with two new independent development projects on Norwegian base, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. It is very nice to be able to stand here today and talk about several extensions in an area of the North Sea that we just expected for a short time back that we knew very well. In fact, the Ivar Aasen field forms part of the very first extraction permit granted on the Norwegian continental shelf until 1965. It's almost 50 years ago. Since then, much of the area of this extraction permit has been returned and reassigned several times. New companies with new ideas have escaped. This is a good example of a dynamics that we want more of on the Norwegian base. Ivar Aasen has been named after Ivar Aasen. He was a poet, he was a linguist, but first and foremost known as the man who shaped the nein. The ‘Northman’ was quoted here instead. I thought I'd contribute a little quote myself: "He looked out at the bare sea; there was a musket to lay on; but there was fish playing down in the cave, and the body he wanted to see." In my opinion, there is also a lot of history behind Norwegian oil and gas industries: explore, explore and find new resources, out and do things that have not been done before – and produce great values for the benefit of the Norwegian community and society. Ivar Aasen gave us the land goal and thus a central contribution to Norwegian culture, history and identity. I also want to note that the operator uses this deliberately in his marketing of the field, which I have noticed and appreciate. This is located in the southern part of the Utzira Height. The starting point for the development of the area was one year ago, when the Stortinget agreed to the expansion of the Edvard Grieg field. Next expansion is likely to be the Johan Sverdrup field, where the submission of plans for deployment and operation, PUD, is planned towards the end of next year. We've put extra emphasis on getting a good area solution and looking at the fields in the context. The Ivar Aasen field is thus coordinated with the Edvard Grieg adjacent area by the final processing of the well flow from the field on the Edvard Grieg device. In addition, the power is also delivered from there. They get joint solutions for the transport of oil and gas, and this realises valuable coordination gains for society. The power demand is covered by the Edvard Grieg device. Currently, the possibilities and consequences of a coordinated force from land-solution are studied at the southern part of the Utsira Height, including the Johan Sverdrup field. The work is led by Statoil, and my clear goal is to achieve this. As for the Edvard Grieg field, concrete conditions will be imposed on force from land and for the Ivar Aasen development. Conditions are laid down to ensure that the rightholders of this licence actively contribute to the investigation and pay their proportionate share of the costs of the investigation. In addition, the Ivar Aasen field shall be associated with such a solution unless the department decides otherwise. The developments we are dealing with today will mean a lot for Norwegian industry and employment – regional and national – during both the development phase and the operational phase. I also want to say that it is nice that we get an operating organisation for an independent field added to Trondheim. It will further strengthen the petroleum environment in this region. This year, 100 years have passed since women received general voting rights in Norway. That's one of the reasons we gave the field the name Gina Krog, because she played a crucial role in the fight that led to the general vote for women in 1913. She fought for a new marriage law, which would give women the right to queerness. She also demanded full economic and political equality with men. She was the first woman to be buried at the state's expense. It is appropriate to honor her this year, and it will contribute to further knowledge and knowledge of her name for decades and generations to come. In this way, field development can be generalising in a way that we might not have thought about in a short time. The field was identified in 1974, and it has been necessary to spend a very long time developing technologies and solutions that have made it possible to put in place. It shows some of the work done and the long term that characterizes the work. To maintain production on a Norwegian base in the years ahead, we do several things at the same time. It shows these expansion plans, and I am pleased to see the Committee's opening up on the government's proposals for the expansion and operation of the Ivar Aasen field and the Gina Krog field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e448	As I mentioned in my post, we are skeptical that such contractual obligations have been entered into before the PUD has been approved in Stortinget, and that we risk cancelling costs if the Storting did not approve these PUDs. Now we have three cases of this. A year ago, we dealt with the Edvard Grieg expansion, where Lundin was an operator. There, we didn't experience these kinds of preconceptions. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State view this issue in the future? Does the Council see that there are some dilemmas about how it's done in these three PUDs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e455	I see that there are clear considerations that have to be made in these types of projects. On the one hand, the need – from the Ministry and the government – to provide as good a and complete a decision base for the Storting as possible. There is also a high level of activity in the supplier industry, which makes it necessary to reserve capacity in order to obtain the projects on time and cost. And on the other hand, of course, it has to be weighed against the cancellation costs we incur through the tax system, when we approve these types of contracts. I would like to stress that the Stortinget is quite free to deal with these proposals and the proposals as the Stortinget wants. I also understand that there is a concern about high cancellation costs, but it is also such that saying no to proposals in any case will have costs and costs – in this case cancellation costs. But there will also be enormous socio-economic costs if you choose to go the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e462	As I was inside in my post, a turbine on the Gina Krog field has been selected based on the fact that there is likely to be area electrification. But because of the probability that it doesn't come, you haven't chosen the best available technology, but one that pollutes more. I really just have a simple question for the Council of State: how far do you go into technical questions for Statoil when it comes to choosing the best available technology? Very familiar you can draw a parallel to e.g. The Gjøa platform, where the best available technology has been chosen in parallel with the electrification. Here's a talk in just one year from the start until the electrification is due. What are the critical questions that the Ministry has asked in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e471	I think that the representative Ropstad partially answered the question in his own question, simply because this is a technical solution that makes it possible to electrify something in time. In this case, it is only a short time – a few months. Then a minimum solution has been chosen: one turbine, not two. It also means that the need for regularity is greater than if you had had two and a possible turbine to fall back on. This turbine has higher regularity and better operational safety conditions than the alternative turbine would have had. In any case, the gain associated with reduced NOx emissions will lie in the realisation of power from the land project, which will, of course, lead to the turbine not going at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e476	As I mentioned in my article, the right is also concerned with electrification, where this is profitable and possible. It is clear that many times you would like to see areas and fields in a larger context in order to achieve profitability. In this case, we get more expansions in a short time, which will eventually lead to the electrification of a larger area. It's tempting to ask why we couldn't coordinate this in time, so that we would have avoided these improvised solutions that will only last one and two years, that take place and are expensive compared to what's supposed to be the final solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e481	The explanation is that the fields were found at different times and by different companies. We could of course wish it wasn't like that, but that's the way it is. In addition, I believe that the work done by the Ministry and the Directorate to put in place well-coordinated solutions, not only in terms of power from land, but also in terms of the development of export solutions for gas and oil, will help to realise significant gains and values for Norwegian society. So the short answer is that this is what you've been working towards. The fact that the projects are realized at a slightly different time, as I said, is linked to the fact that they were found at different times, partly by different companies. Either way, I think it might be a good idea to have some reserve capacity on power generation, in case there is a need for it, for some reason in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e486	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e502	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e511	The proposal for a representative which we are now considering asks the government to review the agreement with Sweden on electricity certificates with a view to drawing up and presenting proposals with the necessary legislative changes, etc., so that all power plants starting from 1 January 2004 and qualifying for green certificates from 2012 will be included in the transitional regime. The law on green certificates was adopted by Stortinget on 15 June 2011. At that time, a proposal for a representative on the transitional scheme for green certificates was also examined at the same time as the legislative procedure. The transitional arrangements adopted cover all power plants with start-up after 7 September 2009. Furthermore, hydropower plants starting from 1 January 2004 and installing power up to 1 MW are included. It was also part of the scheme that wind power projects that had received government grants through Enova were able to repay the grant by 30 April 2012 and become part of the electricity certification scheme. When the issue of the transitional regime was addressed on 15 June 2011, it was claimed that the transitional regime was a breach of promise by the then oil and energy minister Einar Steensnæs when green certificates were the subject in 2004. The proposal now under consideration also refers to the opinions of the Energy and Environment Committee when the Stortinget discussed the Green Certificate Scheme in 2004. It is a fact that at that time there was no green certification system. Then the government later came into an arrangement with Sweden, and as mentioned, the bill was adopted on 15 June 2011. In a letter from the Minister for Oil and Energy to the Committee dated 19 April of this year, the Council of State stated, inter alia: that it is now important to maintain predictability in the system and that one is not served by a sustained debate on conditions. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV agree to this and recommends that the proposal for a representative be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e524	While most EU countries have less than 20 pst. renewable electricity production, thrones Norway at the top of Europe by 62 pst, and we have a target of 67 pst. renewable energy. The introduction of the Green Certificate Scheme together with Sweden from January 2012 will help us achieve the objective. By 2020, 26.4 TWh shall be built, with equal distribution between Norway and Sweden. When the Storting discussed the Green Certificate Scheme in 2004, a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment stated the following: ‘The Committee considers that it is essential that investments in new renewable energy do not stop pending such a market and that the Committee assumes that everyone who invests in the project from 1 January 2004 onwards and who will otherwise be awarded a green certificate will receive it.’;» The Committee did not impose any restrictions on its comments. Today's government parties, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to submit the necessary legislative proposals for the establishment of a compulsory Norwegian-Swedish certification market as soon as possible. All installations starting after 2004 and qualifying for it must be eligible under the scheme.» Much clearer than the setting of these three games can hardly be said. The 2004 promises were not followed up when the government presented its bill on electricity certificates, Prop. 101 L for 2010–2011, spring 2011. Here it was made clear that after 7 September 2009, construction start power plants would be part of the electricity licence market, less the time they have been in operation. In contravention of what the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party had said in 2004, only power plants with less than 1 MW capacity, which were built from January 2004 to 7 September 2009, were included in the certification scheme. The actors in the small power industry feel cheated by the government. The scheme put in place by the government with effect from 7 September 2009 was much lower than those expected by these actors. It was built approx. 165 to 170 power plants during this period that do not qualify for the electrical certification scheme. The power plants are scattered throughout the country, and they have an annual production of approx. 1.9 TWh. These actors wanted additional income for the farm at the time of the investment. An estimated grant through the electricity certificates was approximately: 20 cents per day. kWh. This grant is approximately: 80 pst. of the expected power price of 25 øre per kWh and is essential for the operating result. Today, many of these actors are struggling and falling outside the electrical certification scheme. For more than one, equity is gone and farm profits must be paid to cover operating costs. It is rumored that German investors are willing to buy into these power plants with a bad economy. If not, bankruptcy and closure can be the result. The nation today has a large demand that German investors have already purchased Norwegian small power plants, and they are planning to buy more installations and complete prospectuses. This situation has arisen because the government has not kept the promises made by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre in the handling of the certification system in the Stortingen in 2004. The deployment of the ECR must be very difficult, especially for the Centre Party, to live with, and it will probably be a theme of the electoral campaign. For the first time, the Party of Progress will be a driving force for the change of the system of electricity certificates, so that those who built installations between 1 January 2004 and 7 September 2009 can also participate in the scheme. Finally, I address the joint proposal from the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e554	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e557	The issue of the transitional green certificate scheme has been a replay of Stortinget in recent years. The rough lifting pieces of the red-green government have seen the minds of both the small builders and the opposition politicians here on the Stortinget. The situation for many of the 160–170 power plants that didn't get certificates is that they're struggling with bad economy. Many also have problems with liquidity, and others have to go through with additional own resources to keep their operations going. Of the private power plants not included in the transitional arrangement, 32 are the ones with no dividends, 24 are the ones with a deficit, and 15 are the ones with a technical bankruptcy, according to information provided by the Small Power Unit. How it is with the public owners is uncertain, but this is anyway a dramatic situation for many of these power plants. In the nations today, we see that Norwegian small power plants are being sold to the Germans. Hans-Arndt Riegel, heir to the dutiful Haribo, is one of the buyers of two small power plants in Kvinesdal, West Agder. Former SV politicians and power plant owners, Tom Arnt Lindemann, express in the same way that Hisvatn Kraftwerk had still been on Norwegian and local hands if the government had introduced green certificates to owners of small power plants. He also states that they sell the power plant because they feel tricked by politicians, and use expressions such as promises and deception from politicians. When Stortinget discussed the scheme of green certificates in 2004, the Energy and Environment Committee of one of the co-ordinators stated: ‘The Committee considers that it is essential that investments in new renewable energy do not stop pending such a market and the Committee considers that all those investing in projects from 1 January 2004 and who will otherwise be awarded a green certificate are granted it.’;» The representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Committee made the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals for the establishment of a compulsory Norwegian-Swedish certificate market as soon as possible. All installations starting after 2004 and qualifying for it must be eligible under the scheme.» There can be no doubt that these are promises that must be binding on the government and the red-green parties. These power plants are spread over large parts of the country and represent an annual production of about 1.9 TWh. When the builders decided to invest, most of them base a long-term power price of 25 to 35 øre per kWh in combination with an electricity certificate price of approximately 20 øre per kWh. Since then, the price of electricity has gone down a lot. Today, the market expects power prices of around 25 ør per kWh for the next few years. At the same time, on the basis of a certificate price of approximately 20 øre per kWh, the carcass carries an electric certificate. This means that power plants with an electric certificate get an income of 80 pst. higher than non-certificated power plants. Many of these power plants are built by farmers who had hoped that the revenues from the power plant would secure the base of income on the garden. Now, gardening that has been in the family for generations may be threatened by bankruptcy as a result of the government's lifting. There are more than 1,100 owners of these power plants. A known example from the media is Knutfoss Kraft AS, which has more than 50 million. Indebtedness. The company has lost 7.5 million. kr in revenues from the electricity certificate market, if a licence price of 20 øre per kWh has been entered. With this income, the company had positive equity. The owners of Knutfoss Kraft have told them to sell the power plant. Minister for Oil and Energy Terje Riis-Johansen said in Stortinget on 10 March 2010 that: ‘The transitional regime is a national matter, so there is of course nothing the Swedish Government has pushed the Norwegian Government to do’. This means that it does not have the Swedes who have pressured the government to exclude the 170 small power plants from the transitional regime. On questions from the Committee on the possibility of extending the transitional arrangements today, so that all small-scale power plants built between 1 January 2004 and 7 September 2009 can be included in the scheme, State Council Borten Moe answers: ‘Any extension of the transitional regime in addition to that agreed before the conclusion of the agreement with Sweden requires contact with the Swedish authorities to this effect.’; The two replies from the two central party councils show that it was possible to include small power plants in the certification scheme before the agreement with Sweden entered into force, but that one now, after the agreement has been concluded, is subject to the consent of the Swedish government. Right, we want to do what we can to fix the government's lifting break. That is why we have also included in the 2013-2017 Grand Election Programme that we should work towards a new chance for those small power plants that did not join the transitional regime. It shows that the Right is serious when we want to correct the gross lifting fractions on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e607	I do not have comprehensive comments on this matter. As the representative Lødemel said, there has been a repetition in Stortinget. This matter has been dealt with before, at the latest in the representative proposal 91 S for 2009-2010. In my opinion, there have not been any new circumstances that suggest that the Stortinget should now conclude differently than at the time – other than, where appropriate, that it is now closer to the election date than it was at the time. The reality is that this is a rematch that will cost a lot, but above all will not give us any more renewable power compared to what was the situation when the green certificates were adopted in 2011. I believe that the industry is primarily served – not a sustained debate on the conditions of the electricity certificates, but that they remain firm. I think that is also the most important attitude of the Small Forces Association, sail if I am not in doubt that they could wish for the scheme to be extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e614	For the Centre Party, the effort to facilitate renewable energy is central. The world is facing major climate and energy challenges, and Norway has large resources within renewable energy in the form of water, wind and bio. Exploiting more of renewable resources to create renewable energy will not be just the right environmental policy. It will also create values, activity, jobs and knowledge across the country. Sometimes it is right to go beyond the market itself to stimulate new technologies or environmentally friendly production. Against this background, it was very important for the Central Party to put in place a green certificate market, and it was a pleasure when this market was a reality. There were many people talking about it, it was topic for many years, but it was this government that introduced a scheme of green certificates. At the same time, a transitional arrangement was presented to indicate that all new construction start-up power plants after the date of the agreement would be part of the 2012 certification market with the remaining of the total 15 years included in the certification scheme. In addition, it was made clear that the scheme will have retroactive effect until 2004 for all power plants with a power output of up to 1 MW. For the Center Party, this was a challenging matter when she was decided three years ago. We've always made it clear, both in this hall and outside, that we wanted the transitional arrangement to be five wider than it was presented by the government after a health assessment. We are satisfied with the design of the transitional regime when it comes to the renewable energy that was built from the autumn of 2009 until the certificate market came into force. But we would have liked several of the small water power plants to enter that part of the transitional system that applied to small power plants with a construction start after 1 January 2004. Green certificates and transitional arrangements have been between the clearest requirements of the industry in recent years, and it was therefore particularly important to reach an agreement of intent with the Swedish on a single certificate market and to have transitional arrangements. At the same time, it is easy to understand that some of those who have developed small power are frustrated that they do not get the same pay in the projects that they would have received if they joined such a transitional arrangement. Although no transitional arrangements or prices for green certificates had been presented before the autumn of 2009, there was a political signal that such a transitional arrangement would come. These signals, as pointed out here, were not limited to power plants below 1 MW. Other limits were discussed as well. When the feed-in system, which was in force at one time, presented limits, it was signaled up to 3 MW as a current limit for accessing that system. The feed-in arrangement didn't make any difference either. For a small part of the government, it is often a challenge that one does not reach a hundred percent with its solutions. At the same time, it is a matter of having a significant impact, and for the Central Party, it was crucial to establish a certificate agreement and a transitional arrangement. It also has the Center Party in place with the other government parties a significant part of the era for it to come into place. Small-scale industries are an important industry for the realisation of new renewable and climate-friendly energy, value creation and knowledge in our rural areas. There are targets that the Center Party also shares, and we're going to continue to work to secure this industry conditions for further bet. Today's debate is similar to the debate we had three years ago when this matter was being discussed. What is alarming in this debate and in the setting is that the opposition is unable to gather on any promise or obligation when it comes to integrating these power plants that were built into this period, into the Green Certificate System – even if they were to come to power in the house. It's worth noting. Why is it, even after a request, that the opposition has chosen not to include such promises in this setting? My interpretation is that they didn't intend to do anything about this system even if they were to get government power to the fall. Then a lot of the criticism that you've exposed the government falls to the ground. I ask – and challenge – again: why is it that one in the setting we are dealing with here cannot gather in opposition can not commit to adding these power plants, built in this period, into the transitional arrangement if one comes to the power of the house?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e644	We have just finished a few things with historical suspense over it – with Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog. To put it that way, there is a lot of history related to this case as well, for which several representatives have explained well, just that at the time – as an additional information – in 2004, when the promises came for the first time, it was about getting to a certificate market already in 2006. Then the first grip should have been done, so that we had secured it and avoided getting into the pinch we got here. But the historical part of this case is also that it is a historic breach of promise. Sometimes we refer to comments from the opposition here and from those parties there, but the fact is that there is a unanimous collapse that has promised that these small power plants will be included in the transitional arrangement. It's also the serious thing in the matter, which makes me and the Christian People's Party think it's extra difficult, and therefore want to go some extra rounds in order to get something done about it. We all have a common goal of increasing the production of renewable energy. It's about the climate challenge, it's about replacing fossil energy with renewable energy, and small-scale power plants can contribute in that context. What they can also contribute, as many of us are concerned about, is that there may be additional income to the farm, that it can contribute to district settlement, that it can help keep farms viable. Now one actually sees the opposite. Now a case where landowners have invested in small power plants because they want an additional income to the farm, they want to leave it to the next generation with a slightly higher predictability, a little more security, and then they feel that because they are exempt from the transitional regime, they end up less. And perhaps the consequence is that both small power plants and farms are going to go down – and that was not what was meant. To the representative of Egeland, who believes that there are only fights on the way, and that this will delay the development of renewable energy: I would say it so strongly that it is a moral responsibility for the Storting to rectify this. I also want to acknowledge that if these are included in the transitional regime, it will reduce the total production of renewable energy, but I believe that once we have committed ourselves to this, we must also follow it. That is why we have chosen to support this proposal repeatedly in Stortinget. Those who have chosen to expand small power plants have not only missed green certificates, but they built out in good faith – with promises from Stortinget – at a time when many investments were made. What did that have to say? Well, that means that the costs of power plants increased significantly. There are many examples of power plants that were built in the past, perhaps up to half of the investment costs because the pressure on expansion became so great, and therefore the costs increased. So not only did they miss green certificates, but the actual expansion became more expensive because they built out at a time when the tree came. The big mistake was, of course, that one did not choose to include these power plants in the transition system, and then we took our fight. But when the representative Sande from the Center Party challenges so strongly, I would say, yes, I admit that it is difficult to get it done, but I do not feel that the government has put everything into it, to say it this way, and that is what we are signaling in this case. We have said it openly and honestly, at least from the Christian People's Party – but we feel that the rest of the opposition has also said the same thing – that it is going to be challenging to do this. But we're willing to go some new rounds, and we want to work for it, and if that's possible, at least it's going to be the result if there's a government shift. That means I don't want to stand here and say that if there is a new government, everything will be sorted out, because I can't do that. But I signal a clear, clear will – which has been the position of the Christian People's Party all the way – that these projects should be included. And if we're going to get something done about it, at least we're going to do what we can, so that this injustice that's been committed against these landowners and the owners of the power plants is corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e661	The common electricity licence market with Sweden had started on 1 January last year, and a little over a year into the collaboration, I am happy to say that the system, at my discretion, works well. I believe that stability and predictability in the framework conditions of the scheme are important to facilitate investment decisions, so that we achieve the goal that we have set ourselves. The transitional arrangement implies that all power plants starting after 7 September 2009 and hydropower plants starting after 1 January 2004 and installing power up to 1 MW are entitled to participate in the common electricity certificate market. In the proposal for a representative, the rapporteurs refer to debates in the UK in 2003 and 2004 and early discussions on the introduction of an electricity certification scheme. These discussions did not take place, and this is important for the future. The system to which the transitional regime was promised did not go away, and before moving on with a new electrical certification system, Stortinget discussed even completely different schemes for getting renewable energy in and out of place. The question of a transitional arrangement was raised only after the signing of the Agreement on the principles for the further development of the single market in electricity certificates on 7 September 2009, i.e. five to six years after the first opening of this debate. The background was that the industry considered that development would be postponed until the electricity licence market was in place or until the framework was finally clarified. This underlines at least two things: firstly, how important it is with predictability and clear and clear frameworks. I think this is a responsibility that everyone in this room is going to assume, that you're clear in communication, that you're clear on what history it's all about, and that people aren't tempted to make investment decisions that aren't the basis for it. The key for the government in setting up the transitional regime was that investment activity in the power market should not stop. That was the understanding of the Swedish side. It was not in any way clear that existing power plants were to be included in the transitional regime. So it was a new system, not the one that had been discussed in the Stortinget in 2003–2004. The inclusion of some of the hydropower plants back to 2004, and the selection of start-up as a criterion, was announced at a press conference in 2009 and is fully reflected in the law on electricity certificates adopted by the Stortinget in June 2011. After several years of discussion on framework conditions for the scheme, I believe it is now important to maintain the predictability of the system that is established. The scheme shall ensure long-term and stable investor framework conditions and the market is not served by a sustained debate on basic framework conditions. The center party looks at this as a big victory. We are now seeing the expansion of renewable energy. In addition to the electricity certificate scheme that gives us new 26.5 TWh, a renewable share of 67.5 pst, which is the highest in the world, we have put in place a faster concession treatment, and we now see a lot of activity in the industry. This makes an important — and often crucial — contribution to industrial development in rural areas. That's when it happens. Now we see renewable development across the country, we see investments in networks, we see investments in district heating plants. Now, a lot of people have been talking about for many years, and it's a result of wild politics on the part of this government and of a lot of good builders. So the question is, what is the opposition's contribution? Well, today we see an overall opposition that is trying to create further uncertainty – without promising any material things. If you take this proposal seriously, I think it will mean three things. Firstly, it will result in a large amount of subsidisation of already realised hydropower – according to Lødemel 1.9 TWh. Secondly, there will be new uncertainties around the scheme: it is clear that if 1,9 new TWh were to be part of the already existing scheme, this would reduce prices, create uncertainty about the electricity certification system and make it more difficult to put in place new renewable energy. And thirdly, there's 26.4 TWh that's fasit, and this will further reduce the goal. So what an overall opposition today is proposing is both creating uncertainty around an essential mechanism, and reducing Norway's ambition in terms of renewable energy deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e688	Representatives of the government were very critical of the Progress Party when we proposed to sell power shares in the open market some time ago. It was described as selling the heir silver out of our country. It is now felt that foreign investors buy small power plants. These power plants are sold because the economy is so bad, at least it says those who have invested. So my questions to the Council of State are therefore: Does he think such a sale is perfectly right? And: Can't the sale of small-scale power plants also be described as the sale of our legacy silver?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e693	First of all, both I, the Center Party and the government are happy and proud that we have managed to further develop the fall-back institute in such a way that Norwegian hydropower production will essentially be maintained on public, Norwegian hands. There has been a structurally important grip for this government. We've fought this through, partly by resistance from the Progress Party and the other opposition parties. Now it seems that there is stability and consensus about the arrangement and the consolidation model. I'm very happy about that. I sleep well at night, even though foreign companies and owners invest in the power generation opportunities that the law opens up in Norway, whether it be wind power, biopower and district heating or small power, micro and mini-power plants. The most important thing is that we have managed to take care of the majority of Norwegian heritage silver for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e700	I think it's a pity that the Council of State has not understood the essence of my post, that what we want to do is to correct a gross breach of promises. In my post there were also many examples of what we think is gross lifting fractures, which the small builders have also perceived as being. There's no doubt that there's a lot of power plants now that are struggling financially, and that are in danger of going bankrupt, which are already technically bankrupt, and that refer to the lifting that had come before the investments were made, so that it turns out that this is promised, I think I'm completely wrong. I want to re-examine what the representative Skumsvoll said: Here we see the contours of the fact that foreign interests will buy into Norwegian small power plants. These are small power plants built by gardeners to generate income for their gardens. What do the Council of State say that these power plants can switch to foreign ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e707	I want to add the fact that the opposition and the Right now propose is something that will lead to massively lower profitability for all those who produce new renewable power in Norway, and who may lead many more companies into an economic downturn. I also think it is important to put a heavy emphasis on the fact that these are arrangements where predictability and security are important. This story should show very well. In that case, the opposition should bear an additional heavy responsibility for not adding additional stones to this burden. This is a recurring theme that this hall has dealt with several times. Now it's re-examined, and without proposing real changes. What you promise is to work to look at this together with the Swedes, but in my opinion there are no binding wordings in the proposal that exists from the Right and the Opposition. It is, in my opinion, the worst variety bottle of choice, and it puts stability into a whole and important industry at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e714	Governments stressed the importance of predictability for industry. We fully agree with that. My question to the Council of State will then be: What about the predictability of about 150 small-scale power owners who did not join the scheme, but who were promised it – does the predictability of this group mean nothing to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e719	Of course predictability means a lot. I am humble with those who believe that investment decisions have been made on a basis that did not exist. I think that is a responsibility of many – ultimately of course also of the builders. However, the fact is that the scheme for which transitional arrangements were promised was never realised. The negotiations did not take place. This hall discussed other arrangements in the meantime. Then we got the solution with Sweden in 2009. What I think Right should put on the heart is how this – if the numbers of Solute flour are correct, if 1,9 new TWh in the certification system – will affect the price picture of the green certificates. Why would renewable energy development be reduced by almost 10 pst? together in Norway and Sweden? Why do you want a lower renewable share than you would otherwise have? And how do you think this will affect the image of those who are now planning to build up for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e724	I record that this has become a sort of questioning time with the representative Meling instead of a line exchange with the Council of State, but it should be. My question is very simple. I record in the articles of the Council of State that he says that the transitional regime is a victory for the Central Party. What does he have to say to maybe as many as 1,000 owners of the 160–170 power plants, half of which is struggling with the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e731	I said that the introduction of the Green Certificates was a big victory for the Center Party. It is because it represents the time-renewal effort and renewable development in Norway. As I also said in my post, this is happening around the country as a consequence of the electrical certification system, as a consequence of a system that produces more and more concessions. Not least, it's a consequence of many skilled builders and people standing around the country to realize this. This is about tens of billions of investments. It requires predictability and security of the framework. We can provide some of that security, for example: by being consistent with what is applicable to the electrical certificates and what is not applicable. What is proposed here will create massive uncertainty, and will probably be a contribution to our failure to achieve the ambitious goals we have set ourselves. I don't want to contribute to that. That state cannot assure anyone is the profitability of the expansion of the power market – it is a private responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e736	The party of progress – and probably the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party – believes that the government should go in itself when they saw that injustice. I could almost use a mountain sweat rule and say, "There's no shame in turning around." You should look at what can be done. That's what the opposition wants. We'll look at the possibility of correcting an injustice. It is not the morality that governs the decisions of this Chamber or government, but the Council of State does not agree that the moral answer to this should be: Let's try to sort out, so that the 150–170 installations that are built also come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e741	There is no doubt that the Senterpartiet was a strong driver and very happy when we were introduced the electricity certificate scheme in law in June 2011. Until then, there was a lot of back and forth. Negotiations were held with Sweden which did not lead. There were various other support schemes that were assessed by the government and which were also assessed by this room – by Stortinget. There were many negotiations, and there were once again questions about transitional arrangements. I think what this story should teach us is that stability and predictability are incredibly important, and that back and forth are contributions to the very opposite. What this proposal contributes to is re-addressing issues and struggles that have been resolved many years ago, and creating new uncertainties about a regime that is extremely important for Norway and Norwegian districts — and to achieve our climate and renewable goals — without serving any solution other than looking at this together with Sweden. That's not good morals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e748	The time for the line change is running out. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e754	The representative Sande said this is a rematch. Yeah, it's a rematch. It is an important rematch for those concerned. The representative Sande used at the end of his intervention as the best defense, to defend the Center Party. He said there was no common proposal from the opposition. Well, it does. The setting says what to do. We can't take a decision in the opposition today and say that we're doing this with certainty, but we want to investigate it, we want to move on and look at it. It is not, as the Council of State said, an election bottle. This is an attempt to resolve a situation that we seem to have been unfair from the moment we learned about the transitional regime. This is what we're going to try to do, whether we do it, time will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e761	Under the government of Bondevik II shot the expansion of small-scale power plants speed. It was due to a grip that was taken among others. to simplify the concession system. In the past it was that whether it was an Alta power plant or a small power plant, it was subject to the same requirement for a concession request, etc. The Bondevik II government did something about this, and we got speed on the small-scale expansion. The background for speeding up small-scale power deployment was two-fold. One was that we needed to get up production of energy in Norway. At that time Norway was not self-sufficient in energy or electricity in a normal year. The second main argument was to give landowners and farmers in the districts more legs to stand on by being able to harness small power. When the debate on a green certification market began, it was important that this good development in the construction of small power plants should not stop. Therefore, these transitional commitments were made in order not to put an end to the investment. In confidence of what a unanimous accumulation, across all parties, signalled, some investors in this period chose to build small-scale power plants, which are now not covered by this electricity certificate market. The representative, Sande, is alarming that the opposition is unable to gather on a concrete proposal. We respect the complexity of this market. We respect that this is an agreement Norway has concluded with another country. We respect that it may not be possible to reverse what the government chose to do when they adopted, or submitted, the electrical certification system. But what we're saying is we want an honest attempt to get it done. For us, this is about propensity for promises given from an aggregate accumulation, to farmers and landowners around the whole of Norway. Therefore, an overall opposition wants to look at the possibilities of being able to get this group into a transitional arrangement. This is not something we can do from an opposition stand. We need to get into government offices to see how this can be practical. I think it's bordering on arrogance when the representative Sande and the council criticise the opposition for taking what they call a rematch. For us, this is simply about propriety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e772	It is a fact that during the period between 1 January 2004 and 7 September 2009, a large number of small, mini and micro power plants were built in Norway, based on the promises made by the central party councils. Throughout this period we have had central party councils that have been responsible for this sector, and it has not been a single attempt to correct this which has been a promise. All these builders think it's a promise. Everyone who sits in the opposition sees it as a promise. It represents an annual production of 1.9 TWh with pure renewable energy, which meets ovations from among others. SV when it's about getting it into the North Sea. It also helps to make it possible for us to reach our climate targets. When we hear the difference in income, any industry is going to do very well when it has a certificate or it doesn't make a difference of 80 pst. In my opinion, it should be "trigger" who at all, especially when you say yourself that one is humble when it comes to the consequences of this, and not to go into this issue and try to create a little more justice. One has seen that these landowners and those sitting on the backyards are about to lose them, because they believed in the government and the government that said that one should find a way to make it profitable, and pride that this would come into place. But they suffered injustice. There was a promise that would be possible if you went into dialogue with the Swedes. I feel that it is possible to engage in a dialogue with the Swedes and try to correct this wrong that has been done. But it's simply not political will for it, and I think it tastes bad. When the Council of State said that a discussion of other regimes to achieve the desired new construction, he also gave a signal that if one does not get to the certification system, one should at least look at other options. So one didn't do it. It is also a well-known case that, in a number of industries over the years, different measures have been initiated both to make them competitive and to avoid bankruptcy. The question is: why does it not want to correct this injustice? These people, who today produce 1.9 TWh, are involved in helping us and now the climate targets that one is so very concerned about. Why choose one to ignore these? Is it because the projects are completed, and that one gets that stream or energy from them anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e783	First, ‘Refight’ was not my word, even though I’ve been assigned it several times here. So I realize that my simple question has therefore called for three articles in this debate. What was the question? Well, it was quite simple: Why is it that in a setting on many pages that it has been working with over several weeks, the opposition has found room for a lot of criticism of the government – which we can discuss the content of – but not at one point has a gathering to promise those players that one has even invited more of to this room today, to put these forces into a transitional arrangement, if one comes to power. ‘Admissibility’ means the representative of Meling. Well, propriety is that the criticism hangs together with a proposal for an alternative course, an alternative proposal. If you don't have it, in my view, it doesn't imply the propensity that Meling's representative refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e790	First, there is a case-by-case information: it concerns the fact that all power plants with an installed power output of up to 1 MW are part of the transitional regime – so that there is no doubt about it. That could be the basis for earlier here. Then I took the floor because they say that this is a matter of propriety, while also claiming that you have respect for complexity, and that it may not be possible to reverse decisions that have already been taken. I see that this is a debate that is largely about a history description and a understanding of history. The indisputable fact is that the scheme initiated first with Sweden, for which transitional arrangements were first promised in Sweden, did not become one of those. Negotiations were concluded, they did not lead to disagreements between countries. The government has received a lot of criticism for that. So we discussed other things. Other incentive schemes were also discussed in this room, and then we succeeded in reaching an agreement next time with Sweden on a common licence market in order to gain a lot of new renewable energy. This was a great victory for us. In this context, the transitional arrangements were laid down. My concern here and now is that you can have different opinions about history, what happened, who is promised what, but what I think is a responsibility that is incumbent on us all, is also looking forward. That opposition has to find out, is that someone asks the question: what will be the consequence of the possible adoption of such a proposal? Why would the Norwegian and Swedish renewable obligations be reduced by almost 2 TWh? Is it that we need less renewable power in the future than what we had believed in now? Why is it that all those who are now applying for the development of small-scale power plants, mini-power plants, micro-power plants and wind turbines will have an additional uncertainty related to the reduction of the certificate price? Why is it that we should not now be sure which framework conditions are in place in the Norwegian-Swedish licence market, but that, on the contrary, we have an opposition that will put the whole system at risk for an industry that will invest tens of billions in the future? No, I just think that this is where you put the record player on repeat and repeat an old hit. That butcher I don't think is going to reach particularly far up on the lists, simply because the decisions are made, the complexity is great. These are considerations that have been completed, and now I think it is very, very important that we create predictability around this, not least for the sake of the builders and for the country's part.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e806	The representatives Roppstad and Siri Meling have provided a good basis for why the four non-socialist parties have made a joint proposal and what is our intention when it comes to it after 2013. Otherwise, there has been much talk of propriety and history in this matter. The Central Party has its seat with the Council of State since 2005, and I can understand that both Erling Sande and the Council of State need to defend themselves and that attack is the best defence. I would like to refer to an e-mail from Guri Størvold, State Secretary at the Ministry of Oil and Energy, on 3 March 2008. The transitional green certificate scheme concerned: ‘Good fellow party. You can take it easy. What has been said by the former state councils and in the Great Britain Communication No. 11 that installations put into operation after 1.1.2004 should be able to enter the green certificate scheme if they otherwise comply with the requirements are maintained. That is our crystal clear position when we enter into negotiations with Sweden on a single market for green certificates. Nor are there any signs from the Swedish team that it is going to cause problems. I have also communicated this to the Small Forces Association today, 3 March. We have great faith that we should be able to agree with the Swedes on a single market for green certificates. We are concerned with predictable and good framework conditions for the development of renewable energy. If we are to achieve our climate goals, we need a strong commitment to renewable energy in the future. Small power is a very central part of this effort. Small power is also an important part of our strategy to build a new, forward-looking energy industry in district Norway. Hope this was elucidating. And that you can now feel confident that your party is still to be trusted." It was the transition scheme for the green certificate. It was March 2008. In fact, I think the Center Party should complain about the small builders who built and who believed in this, that they have actually been tricked. This has led to what we see today: more small power plants are in danger of going bankrupt, more people may have to sell their axes to salvage their garden, and all of that is the Center Party that has been responsible for. I believe the Council of State should actually use this opportunity and regret what has happened in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e824	The representative Lødemel really said what had to be said, but I just want to make a little comment about it. It is simply interesting to see that there has been a power plant – just below 1 MW – which has been included from 2004 if these are two completely different schemes. We have all – at least in the opposition – been of the understanding that this has been the same arrangement that has been postponed and that once again managed to get an agreement. From the Christian People's Party we are clear that at least it is our experience of history, and we have our responsibility for the things Stortinget has done before. We know very well that at least the understanding of Storting's decision, comments and statements among those who have chosen to expand has been quite different from the position presented today. I also think that the proposal we have drawn up is good. That's what we can do in the opposition. We can't make any clearer here today. At least we show our will, and we're also clear that no, we can't guarantee anything either, because we're not in position to do that, but we're going to do what we can to try to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e833	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e849	Last weekend a new and frightening climate record was set in Hawaii. For the first time the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere was measured to over 400 p.p.m. It's scary because we're approaching the limit of the 2-degree goal. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has established that greenhouse gas concentrations need to be stabilised well below 500 p.p.m. if the warming of the climate is to be limited to two degrees. In that case, greenhouse gas emissions will soon have to start to decline and not increase as they are today. The world is increasingly affected by the changing climate. Climate change is global, and therefore both national efforts and international cooperation are needed to stop them. Lessons coming from the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on the next climate report suggest that the climate crisis is more serious than previously assumed: the consequences are greater, we have less time, while the large cuts in greenhouse gas emissions are absent. There is a strong political consensus on Norway's international commitment to a global climate agreement. The theme of this interview is what Norway should do at home. Energy use is a central part of the climate problem — also in Norway. Two thirds of our greenhouse gas emissions are related to the use of energy. The climate challenge can only be addressed through a transformation of the energy system. We have to rely on emission-free energy carriers. If we are to achieve the climate objectives, future energy use must be emission-free. We have a lot of work to do with converting fossils into zero-emission energy. Most would agree that renewable energy is the key to an emission-free society by 2050. When the Storting adopted the Electricity Certificate Act, one of the reasons why increased renewable production would contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and fulfilling Norway’s obligations under the Renewable Directive. It is a powerful tool to regulate a market in the way the Electricity Certificate Act does, but a unanimous increase felt that this was necessary to ensure investment in new renewable energy. The functioning of the electricity certificate market obliges end-users to purchase certificates corresponding to a share of their electricity consumption. The offer side is ensured by the right of production meeting the given requirements to receive certificates that can be sold on the market. In order for a given investment to pay off, the expected licence price must be at least equal to the difference between the total costs per MWh being built up and the expected power price. The Norwegian-Swedish electricity certificate market will provide 26.4 TWh with new renewable energy in Norway and Sweden. The electricity certificate market was established to improve security of supply and increase the production of renewable energy, including: can achieve the energy conversion challenge required by the climate change challenge. The big question is how to ensure that the power is used to replace fossil energy in Norway and Europe. If the new power is to have a climate effect, it must replace fossil energy use, not just result in waste. For the Christian People's Party, there has never been a goal that the Electricity Certificate System should help to afford more people heating and heating cables in the uplift to the cabin. The Electric Certificate Market is a success. An offer and a demand for certificates have been made and they are traded on the market. Since the establishment of the Norwegian-Swedish market, more than 3,2 TWh has been granted new renewable power in production – the market delivers. The theme of this interpellation is how we apply this force. The success criterion on which the scheme should be measured is whether we are able to use the renewable resources to cut emissions and replace fossil energy use. The electricity licence market, together with the expansion of Finnish nuclear power, points towards a large Nordic surplus by 2020. This isn't a problem, it's a golden opportunity. This means that we have the power needed to implement a series of conversion measures into a relatively cheap amount of money. We know the fossil emissions and we have the power – then it's just starting the conversion, right? I have always believed that this was the point of the electricity certificates, to contribute to more sustainable energy use and lower greenhouse gas emissions. The paradox we are now facing is that the government is not clear about what the new force is to be used for. It is almost that I get the impression that the Council of State denies the need for new grips and denies that we are moving towards a surplus of power. The Council of State has been so clear that it is not his task to determine the use of force, it is to be left to the market. That's a little bit of a visionary attitude. When politicians intervene in the market and oblige consumers to pay for increased renewable energy production, they should also follow a plan for what the power is to be used for. If we do not risk consumer-paid subsidies only leading to falling prices and increased waste. It's a paradox that Norway might be the only country in the world to have too much renewable energy. Sweden has 50–70 TWh with nuclear power that can be phased out. They don't get too much renewable energy, they get too much nuclear power. Today, Norway uses 180 TWh with fossil energy and 140 TWh with renewables. That's the fossil energy use we have to attack. What we can't do to convert, we have to export. I can come into many areas where renewable energy can be used. Investments in oil and gas activities exceed 200 billion. kr in 2013 and they are expected to increase in the coming years. New expansions come on a continuous basis in the North Sea – like the two PUDs we are dealing with today – in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea. At the Utsira height it seems to go against electrification of the installations, but the Council of State will not guarantee that this will happen. In the Norwegian Sea it looks bad after the government has given green light for the expansion of Asta Hansteen with gas turbines as a power solution. As far as the Barents Sea is concerned, it's strangely quiet. Skrugard/Havis will be finished in 2018, at the same time as the Sverdrup field, but little or nothing from the government is said about whether there will be power from land or gas turbines on Skrugard. Unless the government now makes clear demands and provides the necessary infrastructure, it burns a blue light for electrification in the Barents Sea. The Christian People's Party believes that the general rule should be that all new installations on Norwegian base should be based on emission-free power from countries. Gas turbines must be exempted. But this does not happen by itself — it requires political action. Electrification of the socket may exclude 8 TWh of renewable energy. Similarly, renewable energy can be used in the transport sector. More electrification of the car park requires changes in car charges and increased investment in the development of charging infrastructure. Several routes currently running diesel trains may be electrified. It's about the Trønderbanen, the Meråkerbanen, the Nordlandsbanen and the Rørosbanen. It does not happen by itself — it requires political action. It is also possible to foresee that more renewable energy can be used for increased industrial production, for example. aluminium on Carmøy or other power-intensive production elsewhere in the country. It requires political intervention in this case. In the climate agreement, the size has decided to phase out oil combustion for heating by 2020. The oil must be replaced by renewable energy, but the government does not want this energy to be electricity – on the contrary. The government continues to provide support through Enova to replace electric heating with other renewable heating. Within the energy labelling scheme, direct use of electricity for heating is treated as fossil fuel – both of which have a red character. Here, changes need to be made – it requires political action. Norway should also support the regenerative effort in Europe by building socio-economically profitable power cables to the continent. The Christian People's Party is pleased that last week Statnett sent a concession application for two new cables to Germany and the United Kingdom. The size provided for a strengthening of inter-territorial relations when the Electricity Certificate Act was adopted two years ago. These cables are important for ensuring security of supply, achieving offensive climate targets and contributing to green value creation. It is therefore important that the progress plan of these projects be maintained. In addition, actors other than Statnets should also be allowed to do so as regards the development and ownership of inter-territorial links. Now I've said a lot about what the Christian People's Party wants. I'm not sure if the Council of State will do the same. My question is therefore as follows: What will the Council of State do to ensure that increased power generation as a result of green certificates is used to replace fossil energy in Norway and Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e892	This is a theme that I and the representative Ropstad have so far been through in various lines, and now comes the interpellation in Stortinget. I have previously been a little uncertain about where the representative Ropstad has wanted to go with his problem, and I must honestly admit that the uncertainty is still present, even after 10 minutes with contributions from the representative. To start with, if you're interested in and concerned about what this force is going to do, I would recommend that you look at the climate agreement. It describes in detail and from sector to sector how to shift energy use in Norway from fossil energy use to renewable energy use. In this context, Norway has very little to be ashamed of, on the contrary. We're going to have a renewable share of 62, and we're going up to 67.5. It is the highest in Europe, and I dare say the highest renewable share in the world among countries that have a well-functioning energy supply and a well-functioning economy. This means that, through history and through recent times, we are able to electrify and make parts of our economy and our social life more renewable and more environmentally friendly, despite our growing and despite our increasing number. We do so by increasing efficiency, by increasing the supply and supply of renewable energy, and we do so by having specific programmes related to the phasing out of fossil energy carriers. A lot of examples were drawn out. I believe that the government has good answers to all the examples that were drawn out, and many of them have even been treated in Stortinget as part of the consensus that, among other things, has. has been around Norwegian climate policy. It says, among other things. that we want the electrification of Norwegian continental shelf, but it assumes that it is socio-economically profitable. In order to help make the socio-economic profitable, this government has increased the CO2 tax. If it is that the Christian People's Party now, after the treatment of the climate agreement, has come up with new, different ideas and wants to propose electrifying the entire Norwegian base, without regard to costs, without regard to what is technically possible, and without regard to the availability of electricity on land, it is better suggested. But then you should say it. I have to take a little reservation, but I think it's like half of all electric cars sold in Europe are sold in Norway. It must – if not otherwise – be an indication that our car charging system provides incentives for purchasing an electric car. So it happens. We have significant mechanisms for setting up new industries related to energy efficiency schemes, and now we see that this is starting to work. What we don't have – and I think it is very strong that we should not have either – is obliging plans or predictions of what we as a collapse and as a government go in and define what to use energy for in the future. I think we should have general objectives related to getting rid of the use of fossil energy and energy carriers as quickly as possible, but that we should decide to build an aluminium mill here or an ironworks there to take a certain part of the electricity market, well, it belongs to a different time, and it belongs to a different geography than the Western open market economy that Norway is part of now. But of course, an increased supply of renewable energy, combined with an active policy, usually on the tax side, to make fossil energy use less profitable, will lead to society every day, every single week, every single month, replacing fossil energy use with renewable energy use every year. The representative Robstad is concerned about a large power surplus. I agree that if we succeed, we will at least have a well-balanced power system. It is also part of the story that two years ago, when I took over as an oil and energy minister, the debate in this Chamber was about what we were going to do with the huge power shortages. Then we had spring pinches, we had high power prices, and the picture was very different than it is today – after two years that have been relatively mild and with a lot of rainfall. At least there is a rather heavy responsibility for being involved and providing an energy supply that is robust and stable, and that is to be trusted, even if you have a cold year, and even if you have a dry year. And in addition, towards the middle of the next decade, we're going to be one million more Nordics. I'm pretty sure all of these will have both light and heat. Nor should one ignore that some of them are going to use significant amounts of electricity. In addition, we are now building more foreign connections, foreign tables, than we have ever done in history, to ensure increased exchange capacity, our ability to sell in surplus situations, increased security of supply and the ability to import in deficit situations. In summary, we have an energy policy closely linked to fiscal policy, to industrial policy, to fiscal policy and to overall social development. It's a policy that works, both because we're getting more renewable, and because we're increasing the renewable share. I am at all very questioning about the issue, at least if I have understood correctly, namely that we as the government are going to have detailed plans and objectives related to what it is we are going to use each kilowatt hour to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e914	I must admit that I think this was a somewhat surprising answer. I had hoped for a little more appropriate state council, which was willing to discuss the challenges. But I can once again try to clarify what was my concern with the interpellation. First, I just have to make it clear that I view excess power as an opportunity, absolutely not a danger. But I also think that there is nothing of itself about the conversion from fossil to renewable energy. That's why I miss more ambition here. Governments mention the electrification of Norwegian pedestal. First, I just want to make it clear that I am not saying that it should be electrified anyway, but I want to turn it around, so that one should initially electrify, and then it should be documented that there are good reasons not to do so. I know that there are examples of that. But today, one too easily escapes the clear evidence of – or investigation of – the possibility of electrification. I can also take the example of the height of Utzira, which we discussed earlier today. A huge investment has been made on Gina Krog and on Edvard Grieg, where one could get electrification in advance – just because the Council of State is not willing to guarantee it will come. He's made it clear. If the government had been clear that it was coming, we would have released those investments, in addition, one, which I had in mind in my post earlier today, could reduce already existing CO2 emissions through, for example. cable to Gudrun. In the case of the other example that I mentioned instead, Skrugard/Havis, it is not safe to electrify, but if there is a possibility to use power there, infrastructure needs to be in place today. But I don't feel that there are ambitions there. If something is going to happen, one must also show the political will and show that there is a direction one wants to take on force. So I feel that in the case of investment in renewable energy, at least the industry is much more questioning than the Council of State does if it works. If there had been a predictable price security, i.e. the power being used, I think there would have been more investment here than for example. in Sweden. My experience is that one intervenes in the market on the supply side, i.e. regulations, taxes, rewards, subsidies, but when one does, one on the other hand must go in and say that at least fossil energy must be more expensive than renewables. In the case of my example with oil fires, phasing out there, it must at least be possible to use electricity as heating, if it can replace fossil energy. At least I don't think of it as any red mark, something hostile. So maybe there's a little bit of that that I wish there came an energy message, because through it can put a clear signal, leaders, on what one wants. But in general, it's about getting a clear one to convert from fossil to renewable, one must also show where it's going to happen, and show the market that one has a plan for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e932	It is possible that many of these questions could have been discussed in an Energy Communication. I believe very strongly that there is no need for such an energy message, simply because this hall and this government have given very clear answers to all the questions that the representative Ropstad raises. To all intents and purposes, both the representative Robstad and his own party have agreed on the answers that have been given, and have participated in the decisions that have been taken. I am not aware of the fact that the Christian People's Party and the representative, Ropstad, have intended to oppose neither Gina Krog, Ivar Aasen or Aasta Hansteen, even though there are clearly quite different proposals and completely different intentions relating to how to secure the energy supply. In terms of electrification, there are very clear ambitions on the part of the government, and I think we're going to get a good deal, not least on the Utsira height. But it is also the case that the industry, not least this industry, needs to have clear and clear rules on what is going on and what are the underlying assumptions for the solutions to be chosen. There are socio-economic considerations, land capacity and availability of energy and that the technical solutions are in place in time. Just to make a brief comment on the last one, it was said that there were no ambitions related to energy supply in the north. I feel that this is a claim that must at least be due to the fact that you have not checked out the actual conditions. This year, 420 kV – I hope to be able to grant a concession of 420 kV – will be built through Troms and all the way up to Finnmark and Skaidi in a very short time. It will be one of the largest investments ever made by Statnet in mainland Norway. But I suppose, based on the question, that a concession there can at least expect to receive the support of the Christian People's Party, simply because it means the delivery of electricity, good framework conditions and security of supply also for our northernmost part of the country. In summary, it is the sum of the decisions and proposals made by the government through the budget, climate communication and various instruments, which mean that we have Europe's highest renewable share. But we're aiming higher – we're going to get the world's highest renewable share. The representative said it's not something that comes of itself. I fully agree with that. This proportion is a result of misguided policies. It is simply that the things the representative Ropstad asks for happen every day in the government offices, in this room and around the entire country of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e945	The interpellant addresses a very important theme. If, as a global society, we are to achieve our climate objectives, it is crucial to replace more fossil energy production with renewable energy production and to change consumption so that we use renewable energy instead of fossil energy. Norway currently has a high share of renewable energy, and we have set ambitious targets to increase the share of renewable energy even more by 2020. Norway has the highest renewable energy share target by 2020 under the Renewables Directive, as also addressed by the Council of State. Increased production of electricity from renewable energy sources creates new green jobs. It ensures existing jobs by increasing access to power. Of course, that's good for the climate. It is when we replace fossil energy with clean renewable energy that the great climate gains come. This is – as the interpellant is also involved – important both in Norway and in Europe – and for that part of the rest of the world. Many analyses show that we are moving towards a surplus of power in Norway. In years of low rainfall, so-called dry years, we still have a scarce supply situation. Like the Council of State, I believe that there is little we can do directly to ensure that the power is used to replace fossil energy use. Nevertheless, what we can do – and do – to help replace renewable energy with fossil energy. Renewable energy development is very positive both in Norway and in the rest of the world because it ensures that the increase in power consumption is taken from renewable sources. We're part of the European quota market. This means that emissions are capped in Europe and that emissions are priced. The idea is that one triggers the most profitable measures first. It also means that a reduction in emissions beyond that resulting from the emission ceiling may mean that emissions are increasing elsewhere. We want to tighten up the European allowance system so that the allowance price increases. It will provide insight into several projects that could also reduce emissions in Europe. Having said that, the government also implements a number of measures in Norway to help increase access to climate-friendly measures. By investing in Enova and the new fund for climate, renewable energy and energy conversion, industrial projects are supported, and we see signs of new start-ups also in power-generating industries. Power-intensive production in Norway based on hydropower and new renewable energy is good for the climate. Furthermore, the Government of Transnova and measures to increase the electrification of the transport sector. Both train and car transport on electricity have a climate gain. We have today discussed two plans for the development and operation of fields at the Utsira height. The electrification of installations shall be investigated on a case-by-case basis and, in the case of remuneration, the industrial activity of renewable energy – a direct distortion from fossil energy use to renewable energy use. We have done a lot to increase the production of renewable energy. This is positive both for the climate and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e968	I am not questioning about the issue raised by the representative. I believe it is an important discussion, and I also feel that I agree with the interpellant on a lot. But I believe that we are on the right track and that we have an offensive climate policy. With the green certificates, we have invested in a massive expansion of renewable energy. It has an obvious price in terms of load on Norwegian nature through the development of hydropower and wind power, sail if we can get so many applications for projects using the green certificates that we can also say no where where the most natural interventions are. But we have not supported the green certificates in order to get into a situation where the consumption – not to say waste – of electrical energy just increases instead of reducing the use of fossil energy. It is that almost all electricity in Norway is renewable, but only half of our energy consumption is because we use a lot of oil and gas. The climate agreement provides for a cut in domestic climate emissions just through a transition from fossil to renewable energy. We recently got the climate emissions figures from Norway last year. There we see a decrease of 0.8 pst. from the previous year, and we have the lowest emissions since 1995. From a 1990 perspective — and that may be the most important thing — there are two major problem sectors. It is the oil and gas business, which is above 70 pst. above the level of emissions in 1990, and there is traffic, which is 30 pst. over. Therefore it is so important to electrify installations on the base, both in old and new fields. This will, of course, require a lot of pure force, and I agree that electricity should be the rule. It's been said that we're the world champion in an electric car. The electric car is still a niche car, but I think it's time to take over that it can actually become the dominant car type because the technology with batteries is constantly evolving, while a network of fast charging stations will make it quite possible for the electric car to replace today's fossil car. At least it's unrealistic to realize that fossil cars continue as they do today. When the electric car becomes dominant, it will require a lot of electricity. It will also be the large-scale development of the railway that we have planned. In the case of heating of dwellings and buildings, we have very good results with a decrease of 46 p.m. in climate emissions compared to 1990. However, half a million tonnes of CO2 emissions are still being emitted, which for the greater part will have to be replaced by 2020 at the latest. It will require electrical energy, seams if the main solution will be district heating and heat pumps – which also require electricity – and bioenergy. We in SV and the government also have great ambitions for Norwegian industry – also for the energy-intensive industry. Last year’s figures show that industry and mining have cut their emissions by 38 pst. since 1990. At the same time, productivity has increased by 50 pst. It's an adventure! But still 12 million tonnes of CO2 are emitted this year. We have shown that it is possible to cut emissions here, but there is still a great potential for shifting from fossil energy to renewable energy. The climate fund now established will be an important instrument here. The establishment of new foreign home will primarily contribute to more capacity sharing, but it is clear that it means that the interaction with renewable energy in Europe could be significantly strengthened. I agree with the interpellant that the green certificates will help us get more renewable energy into the market, but it would be wasted and a tragedy if it were not used to just replace fossil energy. That work is well under way. It takes place in a number of fields linked to many departments and is about stimulating the increased use of electricity and cutting the use of oil and gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e995	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising an important topic, to which there is no need to ask questions. The climate challenge is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced by 50-85 pst. globally by 2050. At a time when energy consumption in the world is growing rapidly, it will be very difficult to achieve this goal. It will primarily require technological progress, but also the continuous use of the technology that is already here. The climate challenge is global and needs to be assessed in a global perspective. Nevertheless, it is essential that countries such as Norway, which have technology, competence and capital available, demonstrate that it is possible to combine high standards of living and low emissions. Norway aims to realise the low-carbon society from a 2050 perspective. If we're going to do it, we're going to have to start work now. Changeover takes time. However, change does not have to be the end of anything good. It might as well have been the start of something better. In the last few years, the right has been a driving force for a more ambitious and committed climate policy in Norway. That is why we have twice helped to raise the level of ambition of the government through inter-political settlements in the United Kingdom. If we are to achieve the objective of a low-carbon society in Norway, climate comparisons can only be a bottom ground for Norway’s climate policy in the years to come. If we are to succeed in phasing out the use of fossil energy in Norway, we need strong instruments. In the climate agreement, we therefore agreed on a ban on fossil fuel oil firing by 2020. We also agreed on good support schemes from 2013 to provide about. 100000 households in Norway are able to convert or eject the oil burner. Unfortunately, the government has not followed up on this. In the right, it is essential that households have good incentives to replace fossil oil with environmentally friendly alternatives, and that the government should do more to follow this up. In the transport sector, we need to continue to convert the charging system for the purchase and use of cars, so that environmentally friendly alternatives become even better. Not least for chargeable hybrids. At the same time, it is important to facilitate the movement of heavy goods vehicles either from road to road or sea, or to convert them into environmentally friendly alternatives such as biofuels or hydrogen. Reinforced railway investment is important, and on the routes where trains still use diesel, electrification or conversion to environmentally friendly fuels such as: hydrogen are current alternatives. The Nordic region is currently heading towards a significant surplus of power. If the surplus of power is to be materialised, it must create values. The power needs to be put into operation, whether through environmentally friendly industrial production, electrification of the fleet and other measures to replace fossil energy with renewable, increased security of supply in dry, cold years or increased power exchanges to Northern Europe. To the right, it is considered necessary to increase the level of ambition of the number of inter-national connections to be developed. The government significantly reduced the level of ambition at the time of accession, with close halves of available power. State networks currently have significant domestic tasks. Investments for 50-70 billion kr shall be implemented by 2020. Most major projects Statnett has in the portfolio at present, are either delayed or significantly more expensive than originally budgeted. There are therefore many good reasons to allow operators other than the State network to build and operate cables abroad. The rent may be taken out by the Community through the tax system and the control may be maintained by the State through the concession system. Electrification of some fields on the base is also a contributor to the phase-out of fossil energy use in Norway. However, since Norwegian pedestal is subject to EU climate policy, operational and economic requirements should be given particular attention when assessing electrification. As the EU has decided to cut emissions by 85 pst. by 2050, in any case, the petroleum industry will have to base significant CO2 costs on future activities on Norwegian soil. There is therefore reason to believe that more people will do the same. BP has done at Valhalla. The height of the garnet has already been electrified, and the right assumes that the government will follow this up. State power has four gas power stations in Germany, based on Norwegian gas. None of them are profitable today. Competition from new renewable energy and cheap coal from the United States in combination with high Norwegian gas prices is demanding. The return on coal is likely to be short-lived, but renewable energy is being developed at a rapid pace, including: Germany. In combination with the US likely to open up LNG exports, this could result in a pressure on Norwegian gas prices that can in the long run make marginal fields on Norwegian soil unprofitable. Not least in this perspective, it is essential that Norwegian renewable energy maintains and strengthens its position in the European market. It can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Europe and create interesting business opportunities for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1024	The climate challenges and the description given by the interpellant, we in the Center Party have no problem getting behind us. In this sense, the debate is important because it encourages the international and national and international climate policy challenges to be put on the agenda. Then I agree with the Council of State that as this debate materializes, there may seem to be a great deal of disagreement on these issues. I think the interpellant expressed itself so that the government has no plans for what to use the new renewable energy for. Then I thought I was going into a marathon to fall into open doors, because not only has the government meant anything about it, but it has, to a large extent, the Storting and the parties that negotiated the climate agreement, also said something about, that which we have talked about before today, electrification on the base. We also talk about electrification within the transport industry, whether it's about building rail, or maybe it's about having the best framework conditions for electric cars in Europe – we're going to stimulate it. One facilitates further investment in pure industry, and one must have extraterrestrial landscapes to export excess power and also import power when needed. So even though I have the same turmoil as the interpellant when it comes to the climate challenge, I can't divide the impression that this is a very big discord about this. In fact, recent developments have shown that the Progress Party some days ago was able to announce that they also believe that climate change is man-made, so, as it were, a more far-reaching achievement than climate reconciliation has been achieved with that reality understanding. Then I agree with the grips that the interpellant sketches, and that the climate agreement also says something about – the representative Astrup points out the same. We've been working on this, which is only one year old. I agree, perhaps with an exception, where the interpellant can be interpreted so that he thinks it's wrong to try to prevent the renewable power from increasing the use of heating in households where there are good alternatives from local and district heating and bioenergy. This is how I hope I can't perceive the interpellant. There is a strong desire on the part of the Centre to ensure that there are good alternatives, there is no aim to re-stage electricity as a heating source for households. In summary, the Centre Party shares the concern for climate challenges internationally. We have a big job to do nationally. We did a lot of good in the presentation, implementation and implementation of the climate agreement, but there is room for new proposals and new ideas and to discuss them. We also need to be constructive on this side of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1035	Representatives of the opposition in this hall, and outside the hall as well, have been told that most of them have been too late and too little. We have done a lot to increase the production of renewable energy in Norway, and it is positive both for the climate and not least for business. I'm going to take some of those points, both to remind this hall and those outside this hall, about what's happened in these years: In the period 2006-2011, new water and wind power plants with an annual production capacity of 5,3 TWh have been put into operation. The concessional capacity of the NVE has doubled from 2005. From 2006 to 2011, licences have been granted for 550 hydropower projects, which will produce annual production of 4,8 TWh. In the period 2006-2011, a final concession was granted to 23 wind power projects, which will produce annual production of 3,7 TWh. From 2006 to 2011, 136 district heating projects with an expected annual production of more than 4 TWh have been granted a concession. The government has also provided the Law on Marine Energy — the Law on Renewable Energy Production — a long time ago. The single electricity certificate market with Sweden will trigger 26.4 TWh new renewable energy in our two countries. Half are expected to be triggered in Norway. The government has guaranteed public ownership – and I repeat: public ownership – to the hydropower through the changes in the Industrial Concession Act and the Watercourse Regulatory Act. The government also launched in 2008 a strategy for increasing bioenergy deployment, where the aim is to double the use of bioenergy by 2020. Total appropriations for NVE other than flood and scrap prevention have increased from approximately 350 million. DKK in 2005 to approximately 700 million. kr in 2012. The total revenue of the energy fund has increased from 731 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 1836 million. kr in 2013. The effort on energy conversion measures directed by Enova has produced good results. In the period from 2006 to 2011, aid was granted to projects with expected energy performance of 113 TWh per year. They are divided into: wind power renewable heat industry build new technologies. Finally, an important issue for industry, and among other things: I am very pleased with what came, given the industrial workplaces located in Northern Ireland: In autumn 2012, Elkem Salten received 350 million. kr in support from Enova. This will trigger an energy result of 300 GWh. The project will help Elkem Salt to start producing 300 GWh per year, new electricity generation based on recovery of self-produced high-impaired waste heat. Then you talk about this government not having delivered in these years! I think you should see yourself in the mirror and perhaps admit that this government has delivered a lot. So you could say that it might have been even more, but overall, this government has delivered. That's why I also think that the opposition should take some things over. It's not too late or too little. It's going to be very good, and we're doing a big bet, among other things. in the case of industry and some other projects in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1090	I would like to thank you for your contributions. I choose to sum it up this way: I am glad that the Storting share my zeal to ensure that we get to a conversion from fossil to renewable energy, and that there is an important issue that is being raised. My main message is that there should be some point in this, or that the new force, that is, the subsidisation of the development of new renewable energy, should have an effect, we must succeed in converting from fossil to renewable energy. My experience is probably a little different from that of the Council of State, although I should of course also acknowledge that things are happening in the field. But I don't feel that there are big enough ambitions, and that there are enough visions to succeed in the conversion. To the representative Sande: My comment was related to using the new subsidized power at a reduced price and thus that several people could get a warm-up of their driveway on the cabin. I do not expect the representative Sande to believe that it is reasonable subsidisation to use the power to do so. The point is that when someone chooses to go in and regulate in the way that we have done, subsidize and ensure that there is an offer, I also believe that we can go in more clearly and reduce on the other side, just to get to a demand. Then I believe that through clear visions – clear and clear – we can say that, for example. The height and electrification of the socket may be one thing, or it may be related to conversion to an electric car, and then add even more to the car charge, so that it pays to choose the cars that go on renewable energy, versus those that go on fossil. I record that I did not necessarily get as much response to and out of the interpellation as I had hoped, but at least I thank for the contributions that were, and that were in the debate, and the eagerness to change from fossil to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1102	If it was the sentence that the Council of State is also concerned about man-made climate change in the world that should be the redeeming thing, you've got it now: of course I am. However, I believe that the government and the Storting have a comprehensive and comprehensive policy that is at stake, where the phase-in of new renewable energy plays a key role and is crucial for our success. In conclusion, Mr Enova launched his programme for private households last week. Support for the phasing-out of oil fires is also part of that programme. So also that part of the climate agreement and of the government's policy is now in place. If you read the national transport plan, you will also find that both the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway will be electrified. It's going to go in the future at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1109	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1125	First of all, it is very gratifying that the total absence of the sick has gone down. We save a lot of money, which can be spent on other welfare challenges, it is pleasant for the individual workers who stay more healthy, and is a great value for employers who have a high focus on sick leave up to the presence and good working environment. This turns out to be rewarding, as one sees. Then you might ask, why this interpellation about sick leave is on the right path, down the right path? The answer is simple, and it is very important that women have a stable high level of sick leave, especially in the municipal sector. That's what we now need to focus on. What is a do or don't do in the municipal sector compared to the private and part of the public sector? To achieve the objective of the 20 pst IA Agreement. reduction in sick leave in relation to the level in 2001 has to be reduced to 6.7 pst in the municipal sector. in 2013. The care sector and kindergartens have the highest rates of sick leave, 10 and 11 pst, respectively. That's also where the female part is tallest. Women have 60 pst. higher sick leave than men irrespective of sector, level of education, income and number of children. The social partners, researchers and authorities have seen women's sick absences on the agenda, without a clear explanation of the high levels of absence. Compared to other sectors, the municipal sector also has a high number of disabled people, and the average age of those added is high. Kostøl and Telle in the SSB have produced a report showing the development of sick leave since 1979, almost a generation. They conclude that more knowledge about women’s sick leave may be the key to reducing Norway’s absence. Among several reasons my researchers say that a possible cause is the great responsibility of many women in the home. The researchers thus conclude that it is primarily women who need to focus on reducing sick leave even more. In particular, they recommend closer consideration of composite effects – pregnancy and behaviour, preferences and the double byrda – as an explanation of the increasing difference. One knows about some of the explanations – at the same time, talk the wrong way. What do or do not do the rulers? When one also looks at the last numbers, they show that women are increasingly more likely to be ill on the basis of a symptom diagnosis than on the basis of a disease diagnosis. Both actually last the same time. Something's crazy. How do you explain this? Is it harder for a doctor to say no to sicken a woman and say that she might be able to work a little more? Are women more often more tedious and relaxed? Is the threshold for getting sick notice on these criteria lower? Is this too tight for the game? Women, after all, go all the more often to the doctor than men, and they thus have a different contact. What about the working environment - the leader and the sick culture of absenteeism in the individual workplace where women work? There are many questions, and there will be no fewer, as long as the absence of sick women – especially in the municipal sector – is closest to the place and is slightly increasing. Something has to be done, or else we're actually signaling that it's okay -- we can just keep going like that. The government and the social partners are about to start a new round with the IA agreement. It is important to put the absence of women's disease on the agenda. One should also take with it why companies that do not have IA agreements, scorar high on low sick leave. One must also say that the absence of women is low in private, measured against comparable municipal units. What is being done, and what is not done? I'll talk to Gro. She is in her early 30s and has worked in both private and municipal care. She is currently at home with children and is therefore just within the group that has an increased sickness absence. She has two children. The first pregnancy consisted of sick absence almost from day no. 1st@item: inlistbox She was then assigned to the municipal sector. One of the reasons was, she said, that she felt that the wish for an employer was a sick call – not an organisation. This was not said directly, but the dialogue was silence from the employer and little willingness to understand and to see her needs. This was something she also took up with her settler. She did not get this experience of not being included on her premises – therefore sick reporting. In her second pregnancy, while working in a private company, there was a focus on relieving from day number. 1st@item: inlistbox She also experienced that her knowledge and personality were important to the workplace. She also had a much greater responsibility – which made the workplace more accessible. She felt a ownership of her workplace. And even if she had changed her duties, she maintained her responsibilities and made her own arrangements, so that she could keep her work and not least say her own health. She was in work until the leave started. She says that here is one of the explanations of sick leave before the care profession, but that's not the explanation for everything. Responsibilities are important. It is important to include, and not least, it is important to facilitate and provide early assistance from midwives when it comes to their pregnancy and pregnancy. There are important things to learn, and then it's a little special that despite the fact that the municipalities actually have access to the midwife in their own health area, they use no more than the most necessary. There should be a real measure here to get a midwife in place right away when you need it. Today's work life is more technological and provides room for more flexibility. But in the municipal sector, everyday life is not as flexible. The tasks are more user- and clock-controlled and are characterized by constraints due to poor economy. Good leadership is important to get a good working environment and to add motivated people, and this creates presence. Flexible working time arrangements, adapted to the individual’s life cycle, also allow several seniors to continue working. Many women are also dependent on parents, and some have sick spouses. Double work becomes a fact, and the workplace can quickly become too heavy to carry, and the medical report becomes the medicine. Flexibility often involves good dialogue between employers and employees. A good leader understands the importance of showing presence rather than absence. Flexibility is more than just working hours. It's about getting trust, being seen, being communicated with, being listened to, and having mutual respect for each other. Loyalty in a workplace doesn't just go one way – it goes both ways. In the defense, soldiers learn that loyalty goes up and down in the line. If not, an uncleared to-do will be set. One must know that one has support in the back. The IA agreement is good, and I and the Progress Party have threatened him. We're supporting the IA agreement, but I see that he hasn't produced as good results as expected. We know that many companies have discontinued the agreement, and that they have managed to reduce their sick leave after this. We also know that absenteeism is less in the private sector. They have managed to achieve their objective, while the level of absenteeism in the public – especially in the municipal sector – is still too high. In IA companies, they're pretty good at making arrangements, but has it become so that organization eventually becomes an eternal round dance, and bureaucracy becomes too big? And why does a law often tighten up instead of looking at new solutions? I refer here especially to the dialogue meeting, which has now become tighter and find the place more often. And why do companies outside the IA contract manage to bring down the sick leave? These are two important issues that should be pursued further in the renegotiation of the IA Agreement. What has been done about measures, particularly targeting women’s sick leave in the municipal sector? What will the State Council do to achieve the target of reducing sick leave here as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1167	Initially, I would like to thank the representative for addressing a central and important issue, namely why women have a higher level of sick leave than men. First, I would like to point out that, over the years of the IA agreement, there has been a positive trend in sick leave. Although sick leave increased somewhat towards the end of 2012, the level remains the lowest we have seen since the first IA agreement was signed. Seasonally adjusted absences per fourth quarter of 2012 were reduced by 7.9 p.m. compared to the second quarter of 2001. Absence fell during the period 2003–2005, and this was likely related to changed rules for follow-up of sick-seekers and increased use of classified search reports. After a certain rise, particularly in 2009, sick leave has again fallen markedly. Some of this is probably due to the particular situation we had in 2009–2010, with the financial crisis, but it is likely that the IA Agreement – including the legislative changes and measures we implemented from 1 July 2011 – may also have contributed to this reduction. In addition to the question, women’s sick leave: In 2001, women’s sick leave was about 50pst. higher than that of humans. Now the difference between women and men has increased. It's now at 66 pst. During the IA period, seasonally corrected sick leave has been reduced by 13.6 pst. for men and only 3.7 pst. for women. Women have more sick leave than men in all occupational groups. For example, female doctors are 85 pst. more morbid than their male colleagues, and female politicians are 125 pst. more morbid than their male colleagues. Why is that so? The issues have been discussed in a separate research meeting, and they have been widely debated in the media. What is clear is that there is no clear explanation as to why women have higher sick leave than men and why inequalities have increased over time. Pregnancy-related disorders are important, but it can only explain one quarter of the difference, and it doesn't explain the increase we've seen in the last ten years. It is easy to think that the difference is related to choice of occupation, working environment and health, but research does not support those theories. Many suggest that some of the differences relate to different gender roles. Among other things, women are more responsible for care and care within the family and have seen such a double burden. But that doesn't explain the increase in the difference anyway. And in the last ten years men have done more and more homework, and they take more and more of their children, but the difference between women's and men's sick leave increases in the same period. The fact that women are more ill than men is not a strange phenomenon. The situation is the same in our Nordic neighbouring country. There is no comfort, but it opens up in any case to international research and experience in this field. Norwegian businesses facilitate women’s work during pregnancy. That's good. Someone does this well, and is good, others have a long way to go, and as the representative was inside, there is a difference between businesses. Some are good in private; some are bad; some are good in public; others are not quite so good. So here's the different experiences, and we have a long way to go before you organize more under pregnancy. However, in addition to sick leave during pregnancy, it is difficult to apply gender-specific disease absenteeism measures as long as we have limited knowledge of the cause of the differences. As Minister of Labour, together with the parties to the IA Agreement, I have overall responsibility for promoting measures that we consider appropriate to help reduce sick leave. There are, in particular, two measures that I would like to highlight: the increased use of classified sick leave and the closer follow-up of the sick person. Increased use of classified search messages is a very appropriate measure. Research also supports this. A study from the Frischsenteret in 2010 concludes that the more the doctor degrees, the shorter the sick leave, and the less the overall level of sick leave. Furthermore, the study shows that the probability of working two years later also increases with the doctor’s use of grading. The report Graduated Health Notice from the Directorate-General for Employment and Welfare also concludes that increased use of grading reduces sick leave, both through a reduction in the duration and the reduction of sick status. At the same time, the Sick absence report – grading and organisation from SINTEF point out that grading for some employees may affect other employees and that there is a limit to the number of organisation activities that can be carried out by each enterprise. Although grading is not possible for everyone, in my view it is still a potential to increase the use of classified search messages. For some diagnostics, there is also a lot of evidence that it is healthful to be part of work rather than 100 pst. medically reported. Close and early follow-up is another important measure to reduce sick leave. A recently published study from SINTEF Follow-up to the sick – Does the current regime work? concludes that the current follow-up regime for sick people is very resource-intensive for employers, for the Employment and Welfare Act and for doctors – without it being likely to have a significant impact on sick leave. At the same time, researchers say that early follow-up is important. It is nevertheless necessary to consider whether the rules adopted have become administratively demanding. This is one of the issues that we now address in the discussion with the parties when we evaluate the current IA agreement in cooperation with the parties. This work shall be completed before the summer break. The private sector has experienced a greater reduction in sick leave than the state and municipal sectors. All credit to private sector enterprises that have contributed to this. But what is done in the municipal sector? First of all, sick leave in the municipal sector is about 40 pst. higher than in the private sector, but much of the difference is related to a clearly higher proportion of women in the municipal sector. As mentioned above, sick leave among women is higher than among men in the vast majority of occupations. At the same time, it is important to take sick leave in the municipal sector seriously. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has therefore, together with the social partners, set up the Joint Programme on a better municipality. This is a framework programme for local development projects in the field of sick leave/presence and full-time/part-time. There are now 110 municipalities in this program. At the same time, it is important to be aware that there is no finished recipe on how to reduce sick leave. What works in a part of Oslo isn't necessarily easy to get to somewhere else. The work of creating a more inclusive working life and working for reduced sick leave must be anchored in the individual workplace. That might be the most important thing. It's at the office, at the store and at the workshop that people are employed, and this is where the most important job is done to get sick more quickly back to work. All parties must stand together to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the IA Agreement. We're not in the goal, and I want to include a lot of this discussion in the further work on a new IA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1207	I thank the Council of State for the answer so far. I recognize that we're actually a lot of people that we have a big challenge when it comes to women and sick leave, especially in the municipal sector, and how to solve it. Tiredness and laxity have come into focus when it comes to sick leave, and here again women are at the top. Who's the one that's not tired and hasn't escaped? Even we politicians are. But what's the triggering factor that changes the freshness and self-reporting to the medical report? I wonder. I understand that a part is in a distribution phase. I understand that. But it applies far from all of them. Some actually want a time-out. Why has fatigue increased by 69 pst. in the different groups of diagnoses of 12 years? This has happened despite the fact that we have better leave arrangements than ever. We have increased wages, we have AFP, and we have more knowledge in a range of medical fields, where there are also many more treatments, and not least treatments that work. Work environment factors affecting sick leave are also researched in large numbers. One knows that working a little bit is important to the individual and to society. But how do we communicate this out, and how will it be solved at the individual doctor's office, at the individual workplace or at Nav? When we see developments, we may eventually have to come to the realization that we are not doing a good enough job. New concrete measures are needed. We have to get a smaller bureaucracy and any changes to the diagnostic map to the legends. Yes, because it's a cross-check on the diagnostic map, it can actually affect your life further. We're talking about health insurance here, and maybe a trip to the United States. That's what people might not think about. Tiredness and weakness I think conceal many different reasons, such as grief, divorce, poor rental and poor working environment. Diagnosis A04 is a bag diagnosis of lighter mental disorders. It is only when one can clarify the reasons why one can put action in place. But then you have to get a more honest Cause Card. One needs to initiate projects on the same line with e.g. the voluntary part-time project. Leaders must be taught that sick leave requires good guidance. It's about caring, even in areas that are difficult. With the red, good health pay system we have today, there is a much more solution orientation for the individual as well, and not just for the groups in total. The progress party has wanted a more honest picture of the disease absence for a long time and has suggested it. I then have a question to the Council of State: are there any other active measures that a sick alert should trigger - not just classified sick messages, but actually some kind of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1226	The representative specifically asks me if after a while the search report should trigger activity. I believe that this is a very important discussion. Because if we look at some of those who have been sick for one year and who later switch to redundancy benefits, there may be one year out of work, and then the requirement for activity or a place of action does not occur until after a long time. So offering activity during the illness period I think is an important way to get more people back into work. It's a very central discussion. The representative is also concerned with this with mental disorders. We've seen that even if sick leave goes down, psychological disorders tend to increase. It may be that the diagnosis is now more accurate than it was 10 to 15 years ago. Then it might have been that the doctors wrote out that you had a whiplash, and that you had a pain in your shoulder or neck, but the reality was that you might be tired and relaxed, or that you had a mild mental disorder. The challenge is often to keep up the diagnosis at the time of the first medical report. After a certain period of time, you can get a more precise diagnosis. We will follow that up more in the further work. But this with symptoms as a cause of sick leave is a big term. It also deals with musculoskeletal disorders, it deals with mild mental disorders, and it deals with pregnancy-related disorders. So it's a big bag post. But it is important to get more accurate diagnosis – that the diagnosis that comes initially is not necessarily the one that comes after a while. Much more training for health caregivers is important. We have now developed a tool to enable the individual doctor to compare his/her medical practice with that of others. That's what we want to use to a much greater extent. I will, in cooperation with the social partners, contribute to the faster activity of several of those who get sick. Before, when it came to muscle and skeletal disorders, they said that it was right to lie down on the sofa. We're looking at longer medical reports, just like mental illness, that if the prescription is to lie down on the sofa, it could increase the risk of staying away from work for a long time. So we have a lot of work to do in Norwegian working life to better facilitate mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1237	If we halve our sick leave in our municipality, it is as important as if we introduced property taxes, said the rapporteur, Karl Einar Haslestad, in the Sande municipality of Vestfold, once we discussed sick leave in the municipality of Norway. As a result, Sande, a typical municipality of growth, has a strong focus on sick leave. Not all municipalities have it, and I think that's one of the problems. Because we see so many examples of the success of municipalities when they systematically control a high level of sick leave, I think the municipalities take far too much sick leave for granted. This is particularly the case in the health and care sectors, where the pressures are greatest and sick leave is consistently high. That's why I want to compliment the interpellant that she addresses it with a worryingly high level of sick leave in the municipalities, not because I think such an interpellant in and of itself changes the world, but because it's necessary to keep focus on an increasingly inclusive working life. It may also contribute to a growing recognition of the importance of the IA Agreement for Norwegian employment in her own party. Since the IA agreement saw the light of day in 2001, we have achieved good results, including in the public sector. Over time, sick leave is reduced but less in public and female-dominated professions than in the private sector. There are several explanations of what the Council of State was about. The IA Agreement is one of several examples of tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life. When the IA Agreement is to be renegotiated, it must also continue to be in close cooperation with the social partners. Cut-off in the sick pay scheme, not to say the introduction of normal sick pay periods, is hardly a basis for such cooperation. Therefore, there is also reason in this context to fear any government change after the 9 September elections. Today, the daily newspaper has a thought-provoking editorial dealing with the distrust of people’s diseases and the medical practice. There is a lot to be said about it, and there is reason to consider the role of doctors in sick leave work – not because there is reason to doubt the diagnosis, but because it turns out that better interaction between nav, fast doctors and the business community, including the public, actually helps to reduce sick leave. Even more so, this brings workers back to work. One of the results of the so-called 1-2-3-4 collaboration in the municipality of Larvik, which is initiated by Nav, is that the entrance to work clearance money is reduced quite dramatically. The 1-2-3-4 project is precisely about interaction and early intervention. For example, the focus is on the first dialogue – within seven weeks – than is usual. 1-2-3-4-cooperation has also led to a change in the medical practice of decision-makers. There are many good examples of good absenteeism. Municipal Pension Fund Fire Prize – which goes to a person who has made a special effort to reduce sick leave in Kommune-Norway – happened in 2012 in Kristine Borvik at Søbakken Hospital in Larvik. She received the price of good and inclusive management, which has contributed to a significant reduction in sick leave at her nursing home. I don't think there's any alternative to laborious and deliberately unhealthy work in municipalities over time – if you don't resort to coercive measures of a different nature, as you've seen examples of in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1254	Thank you for an interesting and timely interpellation debate. This isn't a problem that gets lost with the first one. You have to use numbers with a certain amount of caution. Sometimes it comes, for example. reports that several smugglers enter Norway. It does not automatically mean that several smugglers, it may also mean that the police have become more effective. Similarly, caution should be exercised when there are reports from Nav that weakness and fatigue are a category that is increasingly being used, because it does not automatically mean that it is being abused. Of course, that could mean that, but it could also mean that you diagnose more correctly, that you put people in a different category than before, and a lot of other things. In any event, what is likely to be a problem is that for some of the sick leave, the sick leave scheme is currently being used as a general welfare leave scheme. We've seen examples of it from society, too, that when it blows hard, you get a medical report. But you don't get sick just because it blows hard. There is reason to believe that one of the objectives must be to get more of this kind of absence into the arrangements that are meant for it, because we have today arrangements that allow you to get free from work. You have the right to leave work if you, for example: experience great grief, need to care for someone who is ill, or otherwise. The difference, of course, is that these arrangements essentially don't give you 100 pst. compensation for wages and salaries when you are away. I guess that could explain a little bit of the change. In the case of sick leave rates in Norway, it is very new and slightly new. It is quite right, as the interpellant says, that the public sector is worse off reducing sick leave than the private sector. In particular, Norwegian industry has taken the lead with a brilliant – brilliant – example. It is particularly important precisely because industry is still a heavy-lifting sector, although it has been heavily invested in machinery and equipment in recent years. Of course, it is a paradox that the sectors where politicians have the greatest responsibility are the sectors where sick leave is the highest. The interpellant mentions the municipal sector, but you can also mention the state. Sickness in the state is high, and it does not go down as much as in the private sector. If the state’s sick leave had gone down as much as in the private sector, there would have been much more money to spend on, for example. hospitals, the elderly and school. It is particularly worrying that the department, the directorate, responsible for sick leave work, even has a very high level of sick leave. However, the municipalities also do a lot of good, including: through the strategy drawn up by the Minister of Labour. The value to mention is e.g. the nursing home in Oslo, which addressed the problem of an increase in sick leave during pregnancy. This is probably because many women are unsure about how much they can work, and how much medically sound it is to work during pregnancy. A regular conversation with a midwife gave you the sick leave. Or you could mention the Stabeck home in Akershus, which, by working systematically with new lifting techniques for employees, also managed to reduce sick leave. It is important that we continue with the good work done in the contract of inclusive work. It is also important that the agreement is not too wide and that too many good intentions are not included in the agreement. It is important that we anchor sick leave work even more clearly as a clear and clear management responsibility. I have to say that there may be a somewhat awkward point – if you call it that – but it must be allowed to point out that several of the leaders in the state sector have had a very favourable wage trend in recent years. It's not unnatural, I think, that well-paid public sector leaders are even asked to make demands in terms of reducing sick leave among their employees. Finally, it is also important to follow-up on classified sick leave — as the Minister of Labour said. I could not agree more. Graduated medical report is very important and very good. But one of the questions is how to follow it up. I don't think you're going to miss doing any of the things that the Labour Party, the Right and several other parties put together in 2004, that's also to see if there's a need for a new round of review of the doctors' important gatekeeper role.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1276	I thank you for a good debate. Even though we weren't as many people as we were concerned with this theme, it's good recordings and good thoughts we all have with us. I really want to say that many, many people do a good job when it comes to sick leave for women, including in the municipality. That's what I want to say. Then we have to learn from them – we have to be able to get the good signals out to everyone else and not say: Yes, they do well there, and then there is not much more. We actually have a good job to do there. The Council of State recognised the importance of activity, precise diagnosis, training of health practitioners with regard to practice and better organisation for mental disorders. I'm very, very much in agreement with that. But I think we have to get a lot of other thoughts, lots of other ideas. We have to open up to a whole country to see what we can do with this. We can't sit down and say, no, we're not going to talk about this, and this shows that it's good enough. As the representative Gullvåg also said, savings are formidable. One sees what well-being can only be obtained from a saving of 1 pst. of a municipality. Let's talk about 1 million. kr. There is a lot of money that can be used in other areas. Yes, Gullvåg was out with a little fear in connection with the cottage's choice. I'm not worried about that at all, because it's easier to say that we actually want healthier women in this country, and that's what we want to do. We have a good rental – yes, that's very important. But if there's a working environment where a leader is actually involved in the fact that there's a high level of sick leave, it doesn't matter what to put this leader to this task. Unfortunately, we see many examples of this not being so good. Then I think like that: maybe there should have been some kind of team that had gone in and helped to get this done, and got better solutions for both employees and the working environment in general. But again, thank you for the debate. I hope we get more focus on this area, because it's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1291	I thank you for a very good discussion. Now we start negotiations on a new IA agreement for the autumn. I have to say that I agree with the representative of Røe Isaksen who warns against having very many objectives in an IA agreement, because the point of an IA agreement is that there should be few and concrete objectives that can be achieved. We've reached a long way in terms of sick leave. So we're saying in terms of increasing retirement age. That's very good. In terms of the number of people with disabilities in the workplace, we haven't reached that far. So it's important to look at the objectives of the IA agreement, and we'll look at it in cooperation with the FAD. But there are also some who want more goals, some other goals. Then I will also praise the industry, which has gone a long way, not only in this area, which is about sick leave, but which has also taken up the retirement age – much more than what we really expected. Now there are a lot of people in their 60s who are in their working life. They're postponing their retirement. So when we got new figures on the presentation of the revised national budget, the forecasts for the cost of the population's security were 5 billion. kr lower than in December 2012. This is because there are fewer disability benefits and redundancy benefits, and sick leave is falling. But this pension agreement works so well that there are fewer retirements, so that you postpone retirement. Thus, in all these areas, there was a reduction in the cost of popular protection. That's a sign that we've reached very far with this IA agreement. So I'm busy looking at doctors' gatekeeper role. I'm not going to have a meeting with the General Medical Association on just this. But I would like to warn something against the proposal that is about more punishment of doctors and norms of healthcare. As a result, doctors may spend more time documenting to avoid punishment, in order to report why they deviate from what is the norm. Then we don't use the doctors for what we're going to use them for. We're going to use them more actively in the follow-up work of the individual. So the desire for more control can simply lead to a desire for more bureaucracy, or the result can be more bureaucracy. If there is something I have received in response to the IA agreement, there is a desire for red tape and no further control measures. So I would say that this is an important social discussion. Researchers say that although men participate more and more at home, women today are being subjected to a very large cross-press. It is about demands in working life, demands in family life, demands for a successful leisure time, and that there may be elements that researchers today are not able to capture in their models. So thank you for a very important discussion, which will continue in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1306	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1322	According to Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure § 67, the questioner only gets 5 minutes, then a member of the presidency gets 5 minutes. Both can then have one post each in 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1325	As we all know, the biggest thing is Norway's legislative assembly. In this house, legislative proposals are dealt with by the government, but also proposals promoted by representatives. Now it is far from all legal representatives, and there are few – if any – who have top competence in legal matters. When a representative of the legislative assembly lacks such competence, it is natural for me to turn to where the competence should be, namely to the ministry, which – as I have seen it – is subject to the Stortinget. When, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance, I signed the Legal Service of the Ministry of Justice and Defence for assistance, I took it as a matter of course that such assistance would be provided. The surprise was great when the rejection came. As it could be perceived as asking for more than what, in the view of the department, was natural to provide assistance, I sent a new letter stating that it was only legal assistance equivalent to the one we received in 2008, we asked for. Once again, we received a rejection of our request. For the undersigned and for the Progress Party – and I believe for most representatives and large-scale groups – it is natural to ensure the best possible quality of their proposals. It's natural, as I see it, to use the department's competence in the Law Department. Is it true that, as far as possible, the Law Department will help to ensure that legislative proposals are as accurate as possible, that they are in line with the Constitution, and that that department will be a neutral body in legal matters? Or am I wrong? Is it so that the Law Department is subject to it at all times and acts and gives opinions only on behalf of the Government? In that case, in my opinion, we have a democratic challenge. We then have representatives in the legislative assembly who do not have equal opportunities for the government parties to use the competence of the ministry and which the ministry holds on behalf of the legislative assembly – which is Stortinget. If it is not possible for the Ministry to provide legal assistance to the party groups, how best to ensure the quality of its legislative proposals? If it is the case that the Department of Law is only responsible for the interests of the government, why is this right not stated? In my opinion, the letter of reply from the Council of State clearly shines through the fact that the ministry is acting in this way. If the Legal Department is to be a neutral body to provide neutral assessments, the Storting must also be able to use this professional competence. If the Law Department is the government's extended arm, it is interesting, because – in my opinion – the law department's opinion is of little value to others than the government and nothing to do with others. As a neutral department in opinions and advice, it has no value at all. I look forward to the presidency's assessment of this and of the questions that lie in the matter itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1346	The Presidency will stress that it is an important complement to the Storting procedure that the committees have the opportunity to contact the departments to ask for answers to questions relating to matters for their consideration. For Storting’s legislative activities, it is important that the Ministry normally complies with the request to provide legal assistance during legal proceedings. With regard to the question of whether a batch group is likely to receive legal or similar assistance from the government apparatus, it is necessary to distinguish between cases where assistance is linked to a proposal for treatment in the Stortinget and those which are not for treatment. As regards the specific matter to which Mr Johansen's question relates, the underlying correspondence between the representative and the Ministry of Justice and Defence shows that there has been a request here for assistance concerning a case which is not pending in Stortinget. There is thus a significant formal difference between the request from the Progress Party’s Liaison Group for legal assistance in connection with the 2008 legislative proposal and the request sent to the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 20 March this year. The former legal proposal concerned a case which was pending in Stortinget, which is not the case with the latter. In the view of the Presidency, there is no practice that suggests that party groups can expect assistance from the Ministry for the legal review or design of legislative proposals when it is not related to a proposition dealt with in the Stortinget. The Presidency points out that even when dealing with legislative proposals, the party groups do not have a formal right to obtain legal or similar assistance from the departments, even though they are expected to receive it as a result of a long-standing and charitable practice on the part of the department. The Presidency considers that this practice is very positive but understands that, in some cases, the Ministry is unable to respond to requests for such assistance when it requires extensive work. The Presidency will draw attention to the fact that if a department rejects a request to provide legal assistance in a case for consideration, it may be an alternative to propose that the bill be returned to the government or that the Storting ask the government to promote a proposal for legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1357	As President Andersen said, the Law Department is an important supplement for Stortinget. There is no doubt about it, and the committees are still using it away. It is, as the President-in-Office said, in dealing with matters that the Law Department will benefit the Stortinget. It is that legislative proposals from representatives and party groups are constantly being promoted, and it is, in my opinion, a great advantage to be able to receive legal assistance before matters are brought forward. That's the whole point. There are issues to be promoted for Stortinget, for which there is a desire to receive assistance. When Grandning President Andersen says that this is true in relation to the propositions that are under consideration, what I suggested in my first post is clear: the department of law in the department is the government's extended arm and will work after that and give advice from the positions and views of the government at all times. This is going to be wrong for me. It is the legislative assembly, the Stortinget, which is promoting legislative proposals, which must have the opportunity to assess their proposals, whether they are in line with current law, whether they are in line with international law, and not least whether they are in line with the Constitution. If the representatives of big business and the Storting do not have this opportunity, I think we have a democratic challenge. I would like Mr Andersen to give some views or explanations on how the representatives will then deal with such challenges as we have in promoting legislative proposals. The Progress Party has a proposal that has been submitted on the subject of legal assistance at Stortinget, and I would like that to be taken into consideration by Mr Andersen, President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1366	Let me first make it clear that there are good opportunities to explore alternatives in relation to treatment issues. When the representative Ørsal Johansen refers to the Law Department, I have to underline the formal link between corruption and government. The majority know only the councils. Any question that goes to professional departments under a department goes from Stortinget's side to the State Council. On the other hand, the political groups in Stortinget are not the senders of questions to the ministry, nor is it the case of matters that are being dealt with. That's what the committees are doing. The only exception to this is a practical approach we have taken in the consideration of the State budget by the Finance Committee, some of which is sent directly. But this is an understanding of how to practice the general rule, which is that the Storting Committees send questions to the ‘its’ Council of State when appropriate. So, as individual representatives, we have no direct relationship either to the Law Department or to other parts of the government apparatus. Then ask the representative how we will get well enough alternative proposals. This is also a good opportunity in today's system, because if so, for example. a proposal for a representative that a law in a given area should be amended – and so on – it is fully possible to obtain a majority for it in the Stortinget and ask the government to rule. So the government has to make such a proposal. But that is the way to provide a democratic basis for that requirement, and that requirement will be put in place. Then we have the practical arrangements that we have in the ongoing context, where the government apparatus essentially answers current questions, as said, when matters are being dealt with. Let me also mention that in the amendment to the Rules of Procedure that we made last week, on a proposal from the Presidency and after a long time of preparation, we have also strengthened the minority's ability to request consultation and to request the opinion of the Ministry in connection with the proposal for a document 8 to be examined in a committee. It also means that the possibility, through a Document 8 proposal or a proposal for a representative, to have the government’s assessment of the actual content of the case further strengthened according to the legislation that has now been adopted but is beginning to apply from the next big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1377	Case No. So 6 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1391	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1405	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1419	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1433	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1448	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1462	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1476	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1482	Then the Storting is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1530	During the debate, Henning Skumsvoll has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Swedish Government to review the agreement on electricity certificates with a view to drawing up and presenting proposals for the necessary legislative changes, etc. so that all power plants starting from 1 January 2004 which qualify for green certificates from 2012 shall be included in the transitional regime.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1553	In Case No: 4–6 no voting theme is available. Voting in Case No 7-13
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1559	In the case of cases No. 7–13, are the second legal proceedings. The President proposes that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no comments in any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-21.ana.ud650e1573	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
