ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e51	The representatives Sverre Myrli, Ivar Kristiansen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Tore Nordtun and Lars Egeland, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Henning Skumsvoll and Eirik Sivertsen on leave of 9 and 10 April – both in order to participate in the travel with the Stortinget delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, to Rovaniemi from the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen on leave from 9 April to 11 April in order to participate in the travel with the Stortinget delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, to Rovaniemi, and the meeting of the Nordic Council of Stockholm from Knut Arild Hareide on care leave from 9 April to 22 April These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Vest-Agder County, Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Henning Skumsvoll, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder province: Kjell Ivar Larsen 9-10. April For Akershus County: Ingunn E. Ulfsten 9-17. April For the Nordic counties: Knut Petter Torgersen 9-10. ==References====External links== April
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e122	Kjell Ivar Larsen, Ingunn E. Ulfsten, Knut Petter Torgersen and Liv Hauknes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e128	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – it is deemed to be adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e138	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e141	I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of the representatives Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Kenneth Svendsen, Ida Marie Holen and myself on changes in the sugar levy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e146	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e150	On behalf of Laila Davøy, Line Henriette Hämdal, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to propose measures for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e155	The representative of the Svein Fleet wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e158	On behalf of the representatives of Ingerd Schou, Lars Myraune, Øyvind Halleraker, Svein Harberg and myself, I would like to make suggestions on broadband expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e163	The representative, Mette Hanekamhaug, wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e166	On behalf of Tord Lien, Bente Thorsen and myself, I am delighted to propose the introduction of sign language as an electoral subject in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e171	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e188	Today, it takes about ten years — often significantly longer — to plan major road and rail projects. I believe that there is a broad political consensus that Norway is spending too much time planning new infrastructure projects. In their proposal for the new NTP 2014-2023, the fagetates say: ‘The assessments consider that the time taken to prepare large-scale transport projects is too long and that there is a broad consensus that measures to reduce time use should be implemented.’ They go on to say, ‘The transport networks consider that a new planning regime for large state infrastructure projects must be considered.’ I believe that there is a broad political consensus also that the planning time has to go down. But then there was this with the executive power. However, my impression is that, at best, new planning procedures are planned and that that planning takes a long time. Raise the threshold for landfill treatment, where there is a case of treatment in weeks and not years, is like shooting sparrows with cannons: great noise with low yields. In November 2011, the last Minister of Transport decided to set up a working group to identify how the planning of large-scale transport projects could be made more effective. The recommendations of the group were submitted in April 2012. Now it's almost a year. The challenge to the Council of State is: How has the report been followed up, and what effect has follow-up had or should have, and from when? In April 2012, a report was also prepared by Vista Analysis for the National Association of Construction, entitled ‘Ten intervened for faster planning processes’. Initially, the report states: ‘For Norway to have a modern infrastructure in 20 years, changes in the way we finance, plan and develop roads and railways Policy and planning must be more closely linked and a time limit for opening up the project must be set.’ [[...]] Has the report come up with political leadership in the Ministry of Transport? The challenge to the Council of State is: Are the recordings and proposals being used? Does it make sense when there is such clear input both from the construction industry and from your own bureaucracy? The Progress Party believes that the planning time must be cut sharply. The goal should be to come down in three years. There are too many people today who get to say too much too long when a project is planned. Very long planning time in Norway is one of several main reasons why it takes too long to build new roads and railways and that projects often become expensive. A long period of time from planning to completion leads to an increase in the price. It's a bad economy. The effect of a new safe road is delayed. Big accident costs are the consequences. Cost savings through reduced time consumption from plan to completion provide a valuable financial contribution to the individual projects. Lower construction costs and faster realisation of good socio-economic impact are good economy and responsible management of societal resources. The construction industry has the following recommendations: Requirements for choice of concepts and quality assurance should be limited to projects where there are real conceptual choices, i.e. where there is actually something to choose from. Quality assurance 2 process should be simplified. Predictable funding of the entire project should be available at the start of the planning process under the Planning and Building Act. The State Road Service and the Railway Agency should be given freedom of priority between individual projects within overall policy priorities. A separate planning regime for large road and rail projects should be established in the corridors. Planning under the Planning and Building Act should be anchored in strategic clarifications. For each project, requirements should be made for the year of completion. Participation should be committed and primarily exercised early in the project. The right of objection should be exercised within a clear framework, with requirements for participation in planning forums. Until a new plan for large road and rail projects, a more frequent state plan should be used. Then comes the recommendations of the Department of Transport working group. They recommend: the implementation of internal measures in the State Road Administration. That's interesting as a little parentheses. developing a more common legal basis for clarification of interest to introduce a clear and binding target for overall time use for a planning process that limits KVU/KS1 to projects where there are clear conceptual choices, one of which has conflicting recommendations from these two groups to further develop the KVU/KS1 scheme so that the results of this work provide clearer leadership than today before the start of project planning under the Planning and Building Act. There I would like to refer to the project Ferjefri E39, where the project group is just recommending such a solution to continue this project: 6. the involvement of the State in the planning process and coordination of its interests and the introduction of measures to shorten the length of proceedings on objections. A little more on coordination: Co-ordination of state interests is essential in achieving key NTP objectives. Today there are too many coincidences that determine if the floors are collapsing. We have clear examples from my own home town, Bergen, in terms of trains to Flesland Airport and the location of new rail freight terminal. There is a need for stronger government policy action by ministerial teams to coordinate several transport sectors when planning projects with similar objectives. The Ministry of Transport Working Party further recommends: 7. to lower the threshold for State level 8. to increase the use of State approval of Plan 9. to transfer the decision-making authority in the context of the use of State plan or the establishment of a programme of plans for transport projects from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Transport 10. to establish simple criteria which automatically trigger State plan 11. that planning becomes more strategic. And then I'll take the opportunity to remember that it was actually the starting point for today's NTP, as it was formulated in Document No. 8:47 for 1993-1994. Let me refer once again to the ongoing project Ferjefri E39, where the project group wants less municipal regulation to speed up the project. They believe that more decision-making power should be transferred from the municipal level to the regional level, or preferably to the state level. This is a good input that the Progress Party supports. The Free E39 project is a national project that needs to be launched in a new NTP, and the project should therefore use new tools to reduce both planning time and construction time. I have mentioned a number of the recordings available from both the Ministry of Transport itself and the construction industry in order to streamline planning processes and short-term planning. A number of other actors and stakeholders in the field of transport have also made proposals to shorten a too long period of planning. To Baug.no, even in August 2012, the Council of State says that the planning of large road and rail projects takes too much time. She wants to halve the time and say, ‘A halving of current time consumption is a reasonable measure.’ My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to streamline the planning process and reduce planning time to a maximum of three years, and when can changes have an effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e312	The government believes that it is important to streamline the planning process and reduce the time it takes to plan transport projects. There are two main reasons for this: Firstly, extensive planning processes are expensive and require considerable resources, and that resource use should be limited and rather distorted to development. Secondly, long planning time leads to projects being completed later, and then it will also take a longer time for society to benefit from the new transport projects. So far, the interpellant and I have a common starting point. But where our roads are also separated, because when the interpellant believes that the planning time should go down to a maximum of three years, it is – in my opinion – an unrealistic goal. To believe in such a short planning period will be to ignore important realities related to the planning and development of new transport projects. Approved plans under the Planning and Building Act are a prerequisite for the implementation of the main weight of investment measures on the road and rail networks. Projects prioritized during the first four-year period of the national transport plan shall, as a general rule, be adopted at local level or at local level. For the implementation of major construction measures or measures to have a significant impact on the environment and society around us, a regulatory plan is required under the Planning and Building Act. We have to plan faster, but we don't have to plan worse. We must also have respect for the fact that the planning under the law must be based on a democratic basis, where there must be open and inclusive processes. It is essential that the measures of efficiency should be capable of ensuring the necessary involvement and transparent democratic processes through consultation and public oversight. It is simply that many people are affected by transport measures and their ability to participate through open processes needs to be safeguarded. It is necessary to ensure that different societal considerations and, in particular, the legal certainty of stakeholders are also ensured. Involvement and participation can be time-consuming, but in fact it can also sometimes be time-saving and effective, because it creates more understanding and stronger anchoring of projects and then smaller conflicts and better solutions. Moreover, the major transport projects are often complex, and there is also a need for time for proper planning. It is therefore necessary to require a proper balance between different considerations to be taken into account. All have served to provide sufficient time for balancing interests, technical clarifications and to arrive at solutions that are economically and environmentally sustainable. Therefore, efficiency should not be at the expense of quality, either in the levelling work or on the project. But the government is – as I said – concerned to streamline the planning process, but not with such unrealistic assumptions as what I feel the interpellant is up to when he talks about a time horizon of three years. The responsibility for planning, including KVU/KS1, is currently allocated to several departments. There is therefore cooperation between departments, with a view to improving the effectiveness of this planning. The external quality assurance system for large-scale transport projects is managed by the Ministry of Finance, while the planning part of the Planning and Building Act falls within the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. In addition, the Ministry of Transport and the departments linked to the Ministry of Transport also have a responsibility to carry out effective planning, within the framework of existing legislation. As mentioned above, the state road services have implemented a project that has looked at different measures, which can make road planning more effective. The follow-up points here are largely related to the conditions that the State Road Administration itself can influence, and this is also detailed in the Ministry of Transport's budget for 2013, which was discussed last year. Since the introduction of KVU and KS1 into the transport sector in 2006, the type of quality assurance of about 50 projects has been implemented across urban, road and rail areas. Some of the KVUs, such as KVU for transport solution for e.g. Trondheim–Steinkjer includes both road and rail. An important assumption that should underlie KVU and KS1 is that there should be at least two concepts in relation to the zero option. The treatment of KVU and KS1 by the Government shall form part of the basis for NTP and therefore the result is an important basis for the priorities to be set out in the national transport plan. The management of KVU and KS1 by the government also provides guidance for subsequent planning under the Planning and Building Act, and clarifications of design choices and trajectories, and better coordination of those processes, therefore provide a potential to facilitate planning according to the Planning and Building Act. The Ministry of Transport will assess the scope and number of new KVUs in preparation for work on NTP 2018-2027. It's a goal to limit the number. It may be linked to a more critical assessment of whether conceptual choices are in fact available and that there is a need for a KVU. Then it is that KVU and KS1 have already been implemented for many urban areas and a large part of the road network, and that it would be unnecessary to repeat that type of investigation once again in connection with future NTPs. A reduction in the number of KVUs and KS1 will undoubtedly contribute to an improvement in efficiency. As Stortinget is familiar with, there is also work to look at various efficiency measures, and the representative Sortevik addressed it in his statement. There has been a working group set up by the former Minister for Transport in 2011, which delivered input to the Ministry of Transport in 2012. Part of that work is briefed in the 2013 budget proposal, Chapter 5.2. It mentions the report that was handed over, and mention is also made of the Swedish Road Administration's project, which I discussed earlier in my article. The representative is right that there are a number of proposals, a total of twelve, to how one can have a more efficient process. These proposals include both improving the efficiency of planning processes under the Planning and Building Act and improving the efficiency of the processes associated with the KVU and KS1 scheme. There are proposals which are quite different in nature and which will probably also require different levels of follow-up. The Ministry is fully monitoring the outcome of that work. It has a high priority, and measures that can be implemented quickly are being considered as well as measures that will take a little longer. The government and the ministry are also open to a number of external recordings. We see that many of the recordings that have been made, either from the independent environment or from the working group to which I have just referred, go in the same street and cover a number of the same conditions. What we will do in concrete terms, and what concrete proposals will be followed up, we will come back to Stortinget with a more detailed description of the submission of the NTP gross domestic product, which can be expected in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e348	Thanks for the answer. Governments are quite right that there are some similarities between the two investigations that I spent a lot of time referencing from. There are also conflicting views between the reports of the two groups and other input from other actors. But what matters is when we get effective measures implemented. What matters to car users and users in Norway is when we manage to cut the planning time from today's ten plus five minus. Then it is interesting to see that there is less distance between the objectives of the Council of State and the aim of the Advance Party than there is between today's planning time use, after nearly eight years of red-green government, and what was an explicit goal from the Council of State when she joined last year, in 2012. What matters, however, is when the halves will be completed, and how we can be sure that this is actually going to happen in a reasonably short time. One question in this regard, in addition to what I addressed in the main article, is whether construction in many small stages extends the planning time – that many small projects provide a lot of planning. Does the Council believe that the construction of major projects will help to reduce the time spent on planning, and that, overall, more rapid development will also be achieved? Another possible time-limiting measure is to allow road construction contractors to also take responsibility for planning processes. As far as I have found out, it was mentioned and recommended by one of the State Secretarys as late back as 2010. So my question remains: what measures will the government take, and when will we see the effect? How the Stortinget will be informed further, we've been told a little bit about, by the expected reference to NTP. When the previous councillor, Meltveit Kleppa, mentioned this in a Question Time in 2010, she said: «The road system of the State and the Railway Agency work continuously in many areas to ensure the necessary capacity and competence to streamline the planning process. [[...]] I want to have a dialog with the etats about what to do anyway [[...]] We haven't come much further after these statements from the Council of State's predecessors in 2010. Therefore, there is still a need to identify more effective measures and effectiveness in the process of reducing the time spent on planning. It's still so that too many people get to say too much too long. When and how will the government change that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e368	So, as I was also in my post, there are a number of recordings. Some of the recordings have come through the Working Party on the Ministry of Transport and some recordings have come from outside. They have in common that there are many of the same types of elements that emerge, whether it is to try to limit the use of the draft investigation or KS1, to set deadlines, to try to simplify parts of the process, to have more predictable funding, or to give trade unions greater freedom in terms of projects and planning than they have today. I think we should recognise that some of these measures will be able to be implemented quite quickly, while others will take longer. It is a rather complex picture, for some of the proposals are about changing the practice of today's legislation, while others are about changing the legislation or setting new deadlines. So I think the picture is pretty complex. Something will take time, other proposals can be implemented quite quickly. For example, setting clear requirements and targets for improving the effectiveness of trade unions will be an action that can be implemented quite quickly, but it will also be a measure that needs to be measured over time. The same applies to the question of the KVU system. We have implemented many KVUs now, before this national transport plan. There probably won't be that many in the years to come. The choice of when to implement the KVU, whether to choose between sufficient alternatives that can provide a basis for the KVU, or whether it is really just a continuation or improvement of a route – that kind of thing – must be taken seriously. It's an important input. But it's also a measure that doesn't come overnight, it's going to happen over time. I also believe, as the representative was concerned, that there can be advantages to shorter planning periods in terms of continuous development. I actually think it's a reciprocal effect of that. I think shorter planning times can allow for larger continuous expansions. Because if you get more efficient and cut short during the planning period, you can also get a more coherent development of larger distances. This can actually lead to a faster expansion of the sea. So the effect that's pointed to, I think is a reciprocal effect. I am concerned that we are going to move forward in terms of faster planning. I think it's important that you have a goal for that work, but in my opinion, it's unrealistic to imagine that you're going down to a level of three years of planning. Then I think a goes along with the democratic part of the process and with the legal certainty of those who are affected by such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e379	For the Workers' Party, it is also important to shorten the planning time in transport projects, not least the Prime Minister has stressed on several occasions. Four-field E18 through Vestfold is one of the most frequently highlighted examples to illustrate the consequences of long planning periods in Norway. Local protests, including: from the municipality of Larvik, led to a number of changes in the original plans of the Road Directorate. Among other things, a tunnel was longer and a bridge changed. Now it should be noted that the municipality had good arguments: a new kindergarten was built and lay in the middle of the noise zone of the new road. The municipality wanted this to be taken into account, and there were important arguments. That is why I fully agree with the Council of State that the interpellant's wish for a three-year planning period is too small. There will not be enough time to ensure important democratic rules. But in any case, the objection from the municipality of Larvik led to an increase of 3 billion. kr, and delays. This type of disagreement between builders and municipalities or between municipalities about the choice of routes and length of tunnels delays and encroaches on a number of construction projects. The municipalities are planning authorities in Norway. This means that the process can be significantly delayed if the municipality concerned does not accept a plan as presented from, for example: The road service. It's about time and money. Municipalities often choose more expensive alternatives than transport modes suggest. Reasonable requirements are often based on good local knowledge that underpins the position of municipalities. It gives better results to the planning process, and the principle of subsidiarity is followed. At other times, the decisions of the municipality may be more marked by the fact that it is the State that has to bear the costs of the municipal regulatory decisions. The State Road Service and the Railway Agency are faced with a choice between initiating the project in a timely manner and objecting and initiating the time-consuming process of mediation under the County Government's control and possible treatment in the Ministry of the Environment – processes that may take several years. Political change can be a third factor. E8 into Tromsø is a blatant example. After 24 years of fighting, extensive decisions by the local council on trasé elections, split layers with the state and not least extensive planning, the new majority, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, chose to override the agreement between the municipality and the state. The municipality now demands a new trajectory and refuses to pay tolls. Twenty million. kr in planning materials are so far thrown out of the window. Now, the opposition, indicated by several big business representatives, requires the state road authorities to start re-planning, which, of course, is to be paid by the state. The greatest loser is the population of the Ramfjord, who must live with a deadly path. It does not benefit the community that large, cost-intensive transport projects are even more expensive and delayed due to local disagreement. We need to use new tools to reduce planning time. The State Road Service and the Railway Agency must be given greater opportunity to cut through at local resistance. One instrument may be the use of a State regulatory plan. According to the Planning and Building Act, government regulatory plans are only to be used exceptionally, but in reality they are almost never used. We're not going to overstep local considerations, but we have to make some adjustments. A reduction in planning time demands both local democracy, the state and the acts of society. Government interests must be involved earlier in the planning process than today. We have to look at a simplification of the planning process, as the Council of State has pointed out. Binding deadlines should be set for the whole or part of the planning process and, as I said, the threshold for making use of the State plan should be assessed. Shorter planning also makes it easier to build more coherent, which in turn contributes to faster deployment. When the dynamics of the planning process lead to an increase in the total cost of large-scale transport projects, we will have fewer projects carried out within the budget framework. Although we have increased the travel budget by 64 pst. Since we took over the country’s governance in 2005, it is inappropriate for increased scope and exceedances to push other projects beyond their borders. In a few days, the next national transport plan will be presented. That's where we're going to continue the journey promise we've started. But we also want to spend the money smarter. Reduced planning time becomes one important grip. That's how we take Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e400	Now I've been on the Transport and Communications Committee for almost eight years, and we've had three Central Transport Ministers over the eight years. Everyone's told us to cut the planning time. Maybe in four days we'll get an answer to what the council will do. I'm recording that the Council of State is most concerned about saying that three years is completely unrealistic, but that we're going to come down to five years. We are not told clearly how to do this by the Minister of Transport. There's a lot of talk, a lot of wool, and little concrete about how to get down on time. But it's very simple if you just want to. I think the E18 through Vestfold is the example that makes it so incredibly clear how wrong it is when we are doing the clumsy expansion that we are doing in Norway today. 6 projects and 16 years of extension — less than 8 miles. There have been 32 years of planning and development, and the result is 78 km or less. It shows that we have to start doing other things and grab other ones. The party of progress says clearly from: First, we have to start building bigger. We have to start projecting larger sections at once, because it's not like that there's going to be so much longer planning time because you're taking a larger stretch. Actually, there might be a lot shorter planning time by taking it as one project than taking it as six projects, as we've done on the E18 through Vestfold. If the E18 through Vestfold had been done as one project, they would have saved a lot of planning time, lots of consultation rounds and lots of treatments in local government and county councils, and then they would actually have built the road much faster. I think we've got a lot of good insights into how we're going to do it, both from the government-designated committee and not least from the BNL proposal, which provides ten clear feedbacks on how we can do it. It's been over a year since these proposals came, and we might know in four days how the government intends to solve it. I want to refer to the E6 at Akersvika outside of Hamar. The Ministry of the Environment has discussed for three years where the road should lie, because they disagree with where that route should lie, as is agreed by all local politicians, state politicians and state-owned policies – all – but not by the Ministry of the Environment. If you don't set time limits for those who have the right to object to their objections, it'll take almost forever. E6 at Minnesund – two municipalities that have been fighting for ten years. Once they have finally reached agreement, the Ministry of the Environment decides that they disagree with the line the two have agreed on. This is the main tour between Oslo and Trondheim! Many people have lost their lives while the two municipalities disputed and the Ministry of Environmental Protection dealt with the matter. It took almost 12 years for you to finish and start thinking about putting the shovel in the ground. It can't be like that anymore. That's why we say we have to set a deadline for how long those who have the right to object will be allowed to do so. Then we have to make sure to shorten the processes. Of course, we have to take account of local recordings, but we have to have more state regulation. Then someone will probably say: But in Ås, the Progress Party locally has been messing it up. Yes, I think it could be said that local politicians have been fooling it into quite a lot of places in the country. That's exactly what we have to end up with. We have to listen to the local politicians, we have to bring the signals that are coming. But sometimes someone has to say that enough is enough, and then we have to make sure to start building the road. That's what it's about, and that's what the Progress Party is concerned about. The main road network, our national road network, is the responsibility of the state, and we are responsible for ensuring that it comes, and that it will be in a good way. As I said, we're going to listen to the objections, but I'm recording that we have a government council that is not very happy to listen to objections. In my home municipality, Bamble, where we are going to build a new E18, we must build with narrow four fields, while all the floors – the emergency buildings, local politicians and state politicians – will have 23 meters. If the government gets what it wants, it's the drivers who have to pay most of it through tolls too, so we should at least be able to get a real way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e419	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing an important topic. It's kind of like déjà vu for me as a former transport politician to see that it's the same debaters, it's the same issues, it's the same answers – and that's the same answer from the Council of State. It's a new state council, and that's at least a change. Bård Hoksrud has many good points when he points to all the projects that are trained, that are exposed, and that do not come off the spot. But I think we should be very careful about blaming local politicians. In Lier we have a regulatory plan that has now been in the Ministry of the Environment for two years. On 14 March, there was a two-year anniversary of the Lierstranda Regulation Plan, where there is not one target food land, where there is talk of expanding housing for 20,000 people, where the intercity triangle is to pass, and where rv. 23 shall be connected to the E18. Nothing is happening, and it has been two years since the Ministry of the Environment — the Ministry of Environment — dealt with this matter. A year and a half ago, the Ministry of the Environment was visiting Lierstranda, looking around and so it looks like this. After that, Lier Municipality has not heard one thing. So I think the jam of blame distribution for who is training is going to be settled in a way that shows that there is at least one thing a new government can do – I hope – and that the Planning and Building Act is to be managed uniformly and completely in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and not in the Ministry of Environment. We've suggested that, and we're going to repeat that. Many good points have been taken up by the interpellant. Of course, the right-hand side also wants to simplify the planning system by limiting the use of KVU and KS1 to projects where there are clear conceptual choices. It was also the Council of State: it must not be used in any case, it must be used where necessary, and where necessary. We also want to apply state regulation to large national road projects if necessary. Bård Hoksrud mentioned the E18, and then he talked about the E18 through Westfold. But we have an E18 that goes out of Oslo here, and so now it's been years without anything happening. We have an intercity triangle that's going to be expanded, and everybody's busy. But perhaps one of the biggest projects, namely passing the city of Drammen, has not even begun to think about how they're going to do it. So there's also something about the order of things and seeing things in context. We have an E16 that goes from Sandvika and over to Hønefoss. One managed to build a small plot in the middle of everything first, and then the coupling remains towards the E18 and the transfer to the Hönefoss. There is at all a lot that can be done by also doing things in the right order, seeing things in context and getting a more holistic plan for how to build up the national main road network. I'm pleased to record that the government is now going to bet on the Ringerix Railway. It's been a press conference. It started a little late, because the council came half an hour late to Bergen because the train was delayed. There has been an offensive action at all railway stations along the Bergensbanen today, with everything from Martin Kolberg and Per Olaf Lundtägen on Hønefoss to all SVs in Hordaland and others, and state councils have said that they should start building the Ringeriksbanen in 2018 – i.e. after the next downtime. It's at least a happy signal, but it also says that the planning horizon is quite long for the major national projects that it's a desire to get started. The planning period must be reduced, but at the same time coordination must be improved. Norway will have one million new inhabitants over the next 10 to 15 years. By 2030, it is predicted that we will have one million new inhabitants. The vast majority of these will live in and around the big cities. Then we need housing, we need collective plans, and we need roads. The connection between these is, in my opinion, far too bad today. The planning of large residential areas needs to be much more closely linked to the planning and realisation of large-scale collective projects. I hope that NTP will also give it the collective promise and the opportunity to develop our big cities, so that there will be no complete chaos in traffic if you want to settle one million new residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e436	This is an interesting debate, not least when we listen to those who are good at sitting in the Right and the Advance Party, because we know that they are betting on doing a job together in the fall. Then it becomes interesting to see what comes out of it, of more efficiency and construction. With the Progress Party's policies, which they are running forward here, and which do not have multiples, it would not have been built particularly many ways in this country, because the Progress Party will not have a funding that all the other parties want. In other words, the consequence of the policy that the Progress Party is pursuing would mean very little in relation to what it is now. So it's Right, who clearly manages to rejoice a little over the efforts of the government with regard to the Bergensbanen and Ringeriksbanen. I know that Greece has been working for, but I just want to remind the representative of Greece that when the Left and his own party were put in government offices, it was 1.3 billion. for investments in the railways. Then it would have taken a hundred years to build the Bergensbanen as right now, in opposition, says they will. But for all things, it's clear that when one has offensive railway party as SV in government, the level of rail clearance becomes a completely different one and the priority is a completely different from what the Right had when they were in position. We just have to register that. Then the Council of State – quite correctly – says that the whole NTP is now being presented on Friday. To date, there have been only a few leaks, which are common when you have government offices – also for the Right when they were sitting there. So on Friday, we get the healing of this, and then we see what the government is doing with regard to planning. The intention of the inter-pellant I think is good, that we should have more effective planning, so that we get more out of the money – which the Council of State mentions as one of the important points to make it more efficient. It's very important to say, I thought, and Hoksrud was also involved, that all parties may have problems in their municipalities. In Ås it was the Progress Party that seemed to be able to stop a road. So the question is, how do you balance this? Should one just say that one is running over local democracy? Is any project so important, or is it such that we have to reflect a little on that we actually have to listen to local democracy, as we do today? Perhaps in some projects – at least it is EN open for, not least in the railway sector – we can have national regulatory plans to just keep pace, because it is an advantage for the climate. The progress party has nothing but the car list and the car to take care of, and not the greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, we have a financing system today that the Progress Party is opposed to, and that means that there are a lot of motorways being built. Perhaps one might consider – as I know Vegvesenet did in Westfold: Would it be necessary for four-field road in Westfold if we had built double-track railway first? Then the answer was that there was probably no need for the four - lane road. It is SV's claim that we build in the wrong order. I'm glad we're getting another round on this with planning and efficiency. The Council of State has done well for what we have done, and what some reports have been, and on Friday we will present the National Transport Plan, where there will also be some detail about the processes that are taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e453	The centre party also believes that the planning time should decrease. It's going a long time today, and it's important to cut it. But let me also say that planning is important to clarify the best solutions for infrastructure development. There are many considerations to consider in order to arrive at the best solutions. But it's true that there are many examples that it takes too long today. There is a local debate about trasé elections, there are rematches that take time – we have seen in a number of municipalities – and there are objections from the government that make processes stop and take too much time. But there is a lot that can be done within the legislation we have today. I'm going to give an example that it's possible to do things faster and smarter. Melhus municipality in the South Trondelag has taken good steps to take local angles and initiatives in the planning process of E6 through the municipality. They took an active role, took control of people's meetings and the Presidency as a plan board, had many meetings, and had all the actors with them from the early stage for different solutions. The effect was that one was able to carry out the process in such a way that no objections were raised from any team – one was able to save 350 decaves of cultivated land in addition – and one cut down on the planning process for many, many years. This is proof that it is possible – if you want to take things locally and want to get the wise grips done. It also shows that it is possible to reduce planning time without going into the state level. Other measures that I think are very important are getting clear deadlines for all parties. Possible objections must be placed on the table immediately. It must not be that after two years of local planning, you have to raise objections and start over. It must be on the table quickly. However, local involvement is important as there are many considerations to consider. This is both about democracy as a general rule and the relationship to legal certainty. Solutions must be found for local traffic, for which the municipality is responsible, and collective solutions must be found, for which the county is responsible. It is therefore appropriate to contribute to finding ways of doing this without the general implementation of the State level. But there may be a need to cut through when the quarrel has pulled out, or you can see that it is incompatible to reach agreement within a reasonable time. Then you have to have a way to cut through, so you get on with it. I agree with the Council of State that a critical review should be carried out of whether there is a need for a draft selection inquiry. In some cases, I think there are no conceptual choices, there is one solution that applies, and then you have to be able to cut through and make sure you don't have to take the road to a KVU. I think it is important, as many have said here, to remind you that local democracy is important, and I would think that the representative Hoksrud does not want to be on a collision course with his party traps around the country when they want to have a participation in planning processes. I believe that a situation in which we are quickly told that the state is exceeding the local level, and I do not think that is wise, as I said, because there are so many considerations that need to be balanced both in relation to local traffic, node solutions for public transport, and in terms of ensuring that the best solutions are chosen in terms of soil protection and other conditions. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is a responsibility for all actors to ensure that the planning time falls both on a local level and also in relation to the state actors who often object. You get good planning processes that I've shown you, among other things. from Melhus, one can balance the different considerations in such a way that the planning time falls significantly. In addition, we will take wise action in the forthcoming national transport plan to help improve and reduce planning time in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e472	The interpellant addresses a very topical and important topic. The challenge of time-consuming planning processes is well known both at local and national level. It takes too long to build a road and a track in Norway. An important reason why it takes so long is the planning time itself. Even after a decision has been made on a new road or rail project, it may take a very long time before the project is completed. Formal planning processes shall be carried out with policy treatment both locally, regionally and nationally. It is necessary to streamline these planning processes. The opposition has made a number of proposals that would lead to an improvement in the efficiency of the system. Now the ministry has also taken a price-effective approach, and the signals are uplifting. Large road and rail projects are too often delayed. When we look at the current transport plan, we see that two thirds of all new road projects are delayed after four years. Three-quarters of new rail projects are delayed. This shows that we're not going to get enough for the money put into the sector. There are too many plugs in the system. It does not help with promises of large appropriations unless the plans can be implemented. Examples from my own county, Akershus, are the double track Oslo–Ski. According to the government's plan, we had to spend 2.5 billion dollars. kr for the period 2010–2013. Now we don't know the end of this project. Another example is rv. 22 through Fetsund. Here, both the lace frogs and the crossroads of Glomma have created a skull. It may seem that the state itself has delayed itself. The inhabitants and commuters have had to deal with an unsustainable situation for years. As many have seen in the debate today, the Government's rapid working group has looked at the efficiency of the system and a number of measures are available. These are proposals which relate partly to improving the efficiency of planning processes under the Planning and Building Act and partly to the quality assurance system for large-scale State projects. Several of the proposals are also linked to changes in legislation and guidelines. The Christian People's Party now expects us to rediscover several of these good proposals in the new NTP coming this week, and I am pleased that the Council of State now promises that it will happen. In particular, I would like to point out three absolutely necessary measures: Firstly, I believe that the state must coordinate and coordinate the interests of the various agencies in a better way than what is happening today. We know that there are different interests, for example: related to the environment and to agriculture. The type of interests of the State must be clarified as early as possible. Secondly, I believe it is very important that all the parties involved get into the picture as early as possible in the process. Then we'll secure a good process, and we'll let go of rematches. Tracing choices and the different solutions must be anchored and early involvement ensured. Thirdly, it should be possible to use government plans and regulations to a greater extent than at present. I think many municipalities that have been struggling with a matter for a long time can experience it positively when the state cuts through. This must of course be carefully considered on a case-by-case basis, but for large projects of national importance, State intervention may be necessary to avoid delays. The transport sector needs to be renewed and made more efficient. These include: on new financing solutions, but also reduced planning time for new road projects, must be an important part of that renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e501	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for having an interesting and important debate. It is not a debate that is new, but a debate that we have had for a while. The response from both the Council of State and to the extent that we in the government parties have been that we come up with our opinions and solutions when we present our National Transport Plan, so maybe it should not come as a surprise to anyone. Nevertheless, it is interesting to take the debate here too and see where the political divisions go, for example. in the case of local democracy and the involvement of municipalities, county councils and others. To start with the most important thing, I would like to repeat what the representative Bjørnflaten said in his statement, and what the Council of State has already said: we are to reduce the planning time – of course we are. But it's both about distinguishing between small and large projects and about discussing what is shorter planning time. Large-scale projects need to be planned for a few years. Shorter planning time: Yes, but not too short. It's an important point that I think the Council of State had in its answer. We're just going to have to have a short enough time to have the right decision base and get the right solutions. It is often the way to get the right decision-making and the right solutions when you involve local democracy and those who sit close to the projects of transportation. I think it's interesting to reflect a little bit on why the planning time has been as long as it has been. This is not necessarily because the provisions are too extensive, not necessarily; it may also be because unnecessary procedures and procedures have been put in place – a practice that makes it possible to achieve an average planning time of 10 years on major projects. But it is also the case that there has not been any hurry in the past, because there was much less money in the transport sector before, nor was it used to be used to the actual implementation of national transport plans. Then it was perhaps a little pleasant for transport politicians to blame for the fact that the projects had not been completed. It was comfortable with long planning time. It was referred to the working group that has looked at improving the efficiency of planning processes in large-scale transport projects, and there I think it comes very interesting and much to be taken into account. I also think that the point that is particularly about the need for the state to coordinate its interests at an earlier date today is important. I don't think many of us are engaged in transport policy, which is particularly happy in the Ministry of Environmental Protection – to put it that way. We've all heard about Akersvika and pointed frogs and nesting eagle pairs and everything that sticks screws in the wheels to get the transportation solutions in place. Here, at an early stage, you actually have to be in the planning process and not object when you're approaching the end. There's something I want to say in addition to this. In the past, the Progress Party has drawn up Albania as a good example of how to run a transport project. To make this clear, we don't want a planning system like what you have in Albania. There's a way of sketching a diaphragm on the map about with pencil, you start building, and then you do the detailed planning along the way. But it turns out that the road projects in Albania are cracking down on costs, so there are huge challenges to how to collect the exceedances. We don't want it like that. It is also true that although Albania is a growing democracy and has put its democratic systems in place, it is not possible to boast about having great local democratic traditions in that country. We therefore do not want to identify with the democratic treatment that we have, for example. in Albania. So there are examples of how it's a good idea to have concept selection investigations, and there are examples of how it's actually a good idea to go back to the start and ask that you have to have more assessments when you've got a concept selection assessment in place. I think the concept selection investigation for the new freight terminal in Trøndelag is a good example of that. When you leave to take account of new freight flows, and when you leave to take into account the political desire to increase maritime transport as well, I think it makes sense for the Minister of Transport what she has done: she has said that we need to have more assessments here, because it cannot be a good idea to meet the political objectives we have of transferring goods from road to rail and sea, by laying a new freight terminal far up on a land in the interior of Melhus in the South-Trandelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e516	There are many and good reasons to bring down the planning time. The way the planning system works today and has worked under this government, the result is from a zero vision attitude that the cow dies while the grass grows. When, on average, we spend nine years planning — and in many cases more — there is little or no doubt that with faster planning and development, many accidents and deaths in traffic would have been avoided if we had put in place effective, new and safe roads in the past. It is a paradox that with today's system, planning and bureaucracy, everything from eye-catching, hedged hubro and salamander is given priority before the accident and health perspective. It should be the opposite, and therefore the planning time has to go down. It is high time to implement state regulatory plans and major projects. It has to be over that we build piece by piece and divided. There's much more reason in building completely. Although today’s planning time is too long, there is no doubt that many critical questions can be asked about today’s planning routines, control procedures and HMS: Will it be followed up in the planning time and in the construction time? We see in the VG today that the State Road Administration is getting the smooth layer of the newly created Road Authority. 26 samples of development projects are available in Oppland. The Road Service could only document quality plans for half of the projects, while control plans could be submitted in 11 out of 26 of the projects. Not one of the 26 development projects could demonstrate that the road safety review was attached to the handover, and the completion documentation could at that time be provided for 0 out of 26 projects. So far, the Vegvesen cannot explain whether they have carried out the necessary checks, claims the Director of Road Safety. The Road Safety Authority does not follow up Manual 151, which is a governing document for development projects, neither in terms of quality and control plans, tradition nor completion. Then you have to start wondering what you're actually doing at that store, because it indicates very little professionalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e523	I thought I would start with a story from two people's meetings for the E18 from the Eastfold border to the Winter Bridge on which I was an observing participant a few years ago. So there the Vegvesen had called for a public meeting on a new trachea. The built town of Kråkstad met up. There are many who have farms and interests. What you got was a gigantic map, and then the participants at the meeting were going to sit down and draw lines. This was the people's meeting in Ski, the same round they had at the people's meeting in Ås. So it went three quarters of a year, and they called for a new meeting of the people. At that time, the Vegvesen’s own proposals, as well as the recordings of all the various drafts from the people’s meeting, were scaled down to five–six alternatives. That's what you should say about it. Clearly, it is quite as democratic as we are planning in Norway. Many of the same people who were at this meeting ask why planning should take so long to build transport in Norway — while wanting to be as involved as possible. I'm not saying that this is necessarily wrong, but it's an example of how it's done, and an example of a thing that helps to make us have as long planning times as we have. Of course, there are also a number of other things that make planning time long, and that are also possible to do with. I believe that several of the measures referred to by the interpellant in its main contribution are reasonable, and I agree with the Council of State in several of the measures she partially supported and said that the government will implement to reduce the planning time. I agree with the objective of halving. Today, the focus has been on KVU – concept selection investigation. I agree that there are sometimes no conceptual choices, and that one can choose to go further in the planning of the project to be built, and thus save time. But sometimes it's absolutely necessary to have a concept selection investigation. There may be distances between the choice of transport solutions, for example: between track and road, or we have the urban packages, where I think the concept selection investigation is absolutely necessary. Take Nord-Jären as an example. There you had the choice between a car-based development, a bus path or an urban railway. I believe that what has been an advantage with a thorough assessment. Now you've made a concept choice there, and everyone hasn't shown the same joy over the choice you've made, but you've made a careful assessment of the different options, and it turns out that it was probably necessary. There you couldn't just go straight to a solution. Nor should one go into traps where one is in danger of becoming easily wise, that one starts something that is not entirely known about being implemented as planned. That's why you have to hurry – unless you hurry slowly, so at least hurry carefully – when you're planning, so you don't risk starting things that you can't manage to do. Then there are several projects that are very expensive and complicated. Take Folloban as an example. There's no point-breaking or hedged hubro, but ruins and – who knows – maybe medieval lives that are the problem. If you want to find good solutions that can be implemented, you have to plan properly, but I can assure the representative Ulfsten that Follobanen will come, it will be built. Finally, I can't let go of returning to E18 from Eastfold to Winterbro, because there was the Advance Party locally who put his hand on the steering wheel and took a U-turn – not five at twelve, but perhaps five at twelve – and kept putting that planning back several years in time because they ultimately wanted to figure out something completely new. Luckily, you could reason – I don't know if it was Hoksrud's mission out there that did it, but you finally made sense there. But it also shows that the Progress Party has a job to do itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e540	To the latter: I believe that all parties and all local politicians use the planning space that is offered to them when they have a project that affects them themselves. The point of state regulation is, of course, to raise important national projects by cutting through, through the use of a government plan. Thank you to those who took part in the debate. It is quite right, as pointed out: there is no new debate – unfortunately. But there is still an important debate. I see that there is a broad, cross-political desire to reduce planning time, that there is a broad consensus that we need to reduce the use of KVU, and that we need to reduce the impact of the opposition institute that is currently in place. There must also be reason to remember that the state is delaying itself when, for example, it is slowing down. let the eyesticks stop for two years. A few days ago, on April 4th, there was a look in today's business about what seems to be a performance project for this government, that is, E39, that stops for two years because of the island stickers. It is of the measures that the government has to deal with itself. We hope they release it and they get their redemption. It is also the case that the drops of new NTP that have arrived before we have the entire plan indicate that the regime we have continues. We continue to build in stages and small – with a long planning horizon, I think one of the participants here said earlier, and it sounds like that from what's leaking – and that means we're getting little change. It's going to be wrong. The danger is also that the roll-out of the plan becomes so project-oriented that the more fundamental and important things, such as planning arrangements and the time it takes to plan, drown. We believe that it is a sin, and we believe that it is a fundamental error. In fact, we want a communication to the Storting on concrete measures to reduce the planning time from ten years and preferably down to three, but at least down to five years. Important steps to get started are, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to use a much more governmental plan for both road and rail – the last with the address of the representative Langeland – to build large-scale projects. This means faster overall expansion, but it also means less planning time when fewer small projects are to be planned. We need to make concrete demands when projects are to be completed, and we need to limit the use of KVU. The government has been sitting for almost eight years. At least in the last four of these eight years, it's been talking a lot about that the planning time is too long, and that it has to be shortened. They have not yet delivered, and nothing from the leaks indicates that they will deliver – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e555	There has been an interesting debate, and I feel that representatives from different parties have pointed out many of the same instruments as important. I also feel the intention of the interpellant as good, and that there is really quite a consensus about a number of instruments that can contribute to shorter planning times. What has been mentioned here is the question of coordinating state interests to a greater extent, a prior anchoring of the process, an assessment of the use of KVU, the routines and practices that have developed, and which in some cases are likely to be far too long-lived – and also what the interpellant was last upon, namely that locals use the time available to them. I think that's right, and there might also be a potential. But what's primarily the problem locally is the rematches, and that's where I think the government plan also has a greater role than what it's had in recent years. So I think it's been an interesting debate. Then I record that the representative of Greece says that it was largely the same debate, the same response from the Council of State and the same things that the government says. Let me say that it was also largely the same type of posts on the Right as we usually hear, and it was difficult to see that the Right had so many new proposals here that have not already been debated, including on the part of the government parties. This also applies to the representative Hoksrud, who says that it is very simple if you want to, but it is difficult to see that the representative Hoksrud said so much about what were the simple grips. There's a lot of agreement about some of the grips that are going on, but it's a composite image. Some of the grips can have an effect quite quickly, but some of them will take longer. In my statement, I was concerned that the government of the Ministry of Transport budget for 2013 has informed some of the work being done on efficiency improvement measures on the planning side. The work of following up that is what we're doing. It has a high priority. The Government will come back to the Storting with details of concrete measures and concrete proposals in the context of the submission of NTP in just a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e566	The debate on substance is then closed. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e580	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e594	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e608	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e617	On 2 April 2013 was a historic day. After Norway, as one of several countries in 2009, took an initiative in the United Nations to establish an internationally legally binding arms trade agreement, Arms Trade Treaty, ATT, was finally adopted in the United Nations with broad support. It was a historical breakthrough. The agreement will be opened for signature on 3 June and will enter into force once 50 countries have ratified. The agreement is good and represents an important minimum platform for further work and provides a good basis for the further development of international standards and rules in the field of arms trafficking. I want to start this debate by congratulating the Foreign Minister and his team in the U.D. and in New York on an important breakthrough. Through several debates in this Chamber, we have cross-politically believed that the problem of illicit arms trafficking and military material is being resolved in a global way only by means of a stronger international commitment. Many countries are today restrictive with transparency in their defence exports. This makes it particularly important that Norway is open and that we contribute internationally. As a small country which practises strict legislation and which takes precedence over the international transparency of Norwegian exports of defence equipment, it is important. Openness also contributes to a broader societal debate on defence-related sport. However, strict legislation also guarantees the legitimacy of Norwegian exports of defence equipment and thus Norwegian defence industry. In 2011, the total value of exports was below 3 9 billion. kr – a decrease of approx. 1.7 pst. The production and export of defence equipment is based on the need to have a defence, it contributes to our defence capabilities and represents a significant value creation in Norway across large parts of the country. The defence industry is at the forefront of technological development and the transfer value to civil industry is high. The treatment of the annual notifications by size has shown broad cross-political support for the practice of the export control legislation, as well as this time. It is a unanimous committee that will maintain and further develop strict legislation, and our starting point is to make Norway's good export control even better. In view of the events in the Middle East and North Africa in 2011, the government has followed up the comments of the Storting on the practice of the U.D. export guidelines and evaluated its practices. The Government considers that there is scope for more systematised assessments of recipient countries in relation to matters related to the fundamental human rights situation, democratic rights and the risk of military equipment being used for internal repression. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore, in cooperation with the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, established a checklist to ensure more systematic assessments of the issues of respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and the domestic policy situation as a result of existing contradictions or armed conflicts in the country of final destination. In the hearing conducted by the Committee, it was said from both industry and organisations that they were positive to such a checklist. There is also a unanimous increase in support of the change in the rule that licences for B-materials can be refused on the basis of the Annex A criteria – this becomes a little technical. In addition, we will strengthen the export control regulation by including the permission to suspend or limit a previously issued licence. This will help to lower the threshold for intervention and stop exports if the situation in the recipient country changes, compromising to the worse. This is important and ensures that human rights and other domestic issues are assessed when exports are permitted or refused. In a democracy there will be a different view of how strict the arms export regime should be. However, I believe that we have found a good balance in our legislation, which a unanimous committee also seems to agree with. It is important, I think, in one case like this, that we are working towards a cross-political expansion of our export control legislation. The Committee assumes that the government will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with information and assessments of the experience of the changed practice with regard to the control of the export of B-materials to which it is now assigned. I would like to add: the Workers' Party believes that the acquisitions of the defence will also be used to build a solid Norwegian defence industry. That is why we are pursuing a policy in which large acquisitions of defence will contribute to increased value creation in Norway through repurchase agreements, that we should focus on multi-national cooperation in defence policy and further develop Nordic defence cooperation. We see results in the form of modern and high-tech defence, a high level of defence, highly skilled jobs in Norway and important technological developments, which also have a large civil use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e636	It is a unanimous committee that is presenting a position on this matter, dealing with the notification of exports of defence equipment from Norway in 2011. It is essential that the export of defence material takes place in a sensible, ethical and sound manner and to nations that, as far as possible, we can rely on the intentions contained in the agreements concluded as regards the use of the defence material we export. In 2011, the total value of exports was below 3,9 billion. kr. There is no doubt that there is a potential to increase exports without at the expense of transparency, control and security. Chapter 3 of the Storing Communication describes the framework for export control and how Norway is working to strengthen control of exports of defence equipment. This framework has its background in a decision already taken in 1959 — of course with modifications and changes several times over the years. Of course, it is crucial how we, as a nation, comply with this legislation and ensure that exports take place within the framework adopted. It is important that the Ministry and the Stortinge are constantly aware of how the guidelines in force are being complied with and, in particular, how recipient countries are assessed against how the material can be used in each beneficiary country. Strict export control legislation needs to be practised, while not having to put obstacles in place to ensure the development of this industry, which ensures new, competence-focused jobs in Norway. For the Progress Party, it is important to stress that we are now adopting a real intensification of the criteria for export of defence material by rejecting applications for B-materials on grounds of behaviour criteria. This will mean, as we see it, that some of today's recipient countries will need to be re-assessed on the basis of the new criteria. The Party for Progress is committed to the export of defence equipment within the framework of the rules in force and is anchored in the Storting decision and intention. We therefore believe it is important to have clear rules for this type of export, so that Norwegian industry can target its market efforts against those countries that meet the criteria for reception. Norway is served by a solid, high-tech defence industry. It fully supports the Progress Party. It is therefore gratifying to see industry agreeing with the legislation proposed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e649	As the rapporteur and the representative of the Progress Party have underlined, this is a unanimous position we have on the table today. I just want to stress from the Right that we are very pleased that we have an annual opportunity to discuss these questions. There is a clear and good message we have in front of us. There is also reason to stress from our side that it is very positive that the arms trade agreement in the UN General Assembly is now in place. However, there is reason to stress that this agreement will only be effective once 50 countries have ratified it. Of course, if the agreement is to have the meaning and effect that we all hope and believe in, it is very important and absolutely essential that the major arms producing countries ratify and comply with the agreement. There is – curiously – reason to note that countries such as Iran, North Korea and Syria chose to vote against this agreement at the UN General Assembly. The Norwegian defence industry is a significant industry, and we should not hide that. It actually traded for a total of about 13 billion. kr in 2011. The industry represents about 4,500 annual works. In recent years, the share of exports of output has increased and is now more than 50 pst. of total turnover. There is reason to stress that without export, the defence industry would have no basis for driving technology development and production in Norway, and many environments of competence would be lost. That is why we also have a good synergy in Norway between the defence industry and the defence industry, which ensures a high level of cost-effectiveness, not least technology development, and also the close and good dialogue we have with international partners. It is, of course, important, as the two previous speakers have stressed, with legitimacy and ethics on these issues. Of course, a very strict international legislation is also positive. There are too many dangerous weapons in total in the world, and even more evil is the fact that many of these weapons today are in so-called crazy hands. As stated in the Communication, almost all Norwegian exports of defence equipment to our allies in NATO and so-called neighbouring countries are. However, the industry will probably be concerned that the future growth market is not necessarily here, but primarily outside Europe and the United States. Here, cuts in the defence budget have become more the rule than the opposite. The new growth markets take place in Asia, in South America and also in some of the Middle East nations. I understand those references as, among other things, The peace has pointed out in terms of unacceptable exports if exports arrive on land, among other things. in the Middle East, using weapons against its own population. In this case, there is a reference to Saudi Arabia and Qatar. In the Middle East, as is well known, many other countries to which Norway does not export defence material but which have ample and poor experience of using weapons against its own population. However, these issues have been addressed in the new formalised checklist, which is also mentioned in Chapter 4 of this message we are dealing with today. The industry's desire for stability and long-term framework conditions is easy to understand. This position ends with a unanimous increase, and I am quite sure that the SV's representative, the representative Serigstad Valen, will underline this in his next post. Finally, I would like to stress that the defence industry is largely a high-tech industry, and this issue is also addressed in Chapter 3.3 of the Communication. Many foreign countries follow developments and production closely. Nor can Norway have a sluggish approach to this issue. Among other things, we have many foreign technology and doctoral students in place in Norway, including Chinese.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e668	I'm taking the baton from the representative of Kristiansen. According to Norwegian legislation, Norway is not to sell weapons or ammunition to areas that are at war or threatened by war. Nevertheless, everyone knows that there is a risk that Norwegian weapons and Norwegian war materials will be ported to countries that are at war or break fundamental human rights. It is both because the practice of exporting to regimes that are clearly repressive has been too weak, and because there is no effective end-user declaration in NATO that prevents Norwegian weapons and parts from being used by, for example, Norwegian weapons. Our ally, Turkey, against the Kurds, by the United States in illegal drone operations in Pakistan and Yemen, that weapons end up in Israel and are used in attacks on the Palestinians – and not to talk about the fact that the Norwegian arms industry establishes sub-companies in other countries, thus exporting Norwegian weapons and Norwegian weapon technology to countries that Norway would not have allowed. In the big news we are discussing today, changes in both practice and regulations are presented that are very good. The aim is to strengthen the assessment of human rights, international humanitarian law and domestic policy considerations in the export decisions. What I think is fine is that the government is cooperating with SIPRI, the Stockholm Peace Research Institute, and has drawn up the checklist mentioned earlier to ensure more systematic assessments related to respect for human rights and international humanitarian law in the final destination state, as well as the domestic policy situation in the country in question. That checklist should be used to ensure that final decisions on exports of defence equipment may be permitted or not. This checklist is nice, it deals with both the human rights situation in the country in question there and then, respect for civil and political rights, and it also addresses such issues as: censorship of social media or other evidence that a country is oppressive. All of this, of course, I am very pleased with and very pleased with. These are important changes. To be completely honest, I have trouble seeing how the above criteria at all give room to export material to countries like Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and others. A short time ago, we were able to celebrate the agreement on arms trade which was negotiated at the UN, to which the case-rapporteur was referring. This agreement is far from perfect, but it's a very important first step. I want to pay great tribute to both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian dealers for very good efforts. Norway is blessed with a civil society that keeps this matter high. Both Norway’s Fredslag, Amnesty, Norsk Folkehelp and many others have much of the credit that Norway is in the international context a driver on the good side of these negotiations. But there is still a lot to be done, and there is still a lot we can do better on our own, and for which I will continue to work: better tracking mechanisms, even more stringent practices related to human rights and the risk of repression in the countries to which we are exporting. And not least, we need to look at different possibilities to prevent that, for example. Nammo exports weapons from the United States under US legislation to countries to which we would not allow export directly from Norway. The use of ownership powers, but also legal regulation of Norwegian companies' behaviour abroad, may be opportunities that SV will pursue in the next period. So – even if it gets to be in a debate another time when we have a little better time – I could imagine that in Stortinget we ask ourselves that question: What is the big arms industry we're going to have? Is it e.g. of course that a country such as Norway, with its defence policy needs, produces a rocket such as Hellfire? Is it natural for Norway to export expanding ammunition? Should we be in the front of the world with drone technology, which is currently being used by the United States to systematically undermine international law and carry out illegal killings in Pakistan and Yemen? I think that if a Republican president had used drones, as Obama does, the denunciations would be hailed. But now we risk making money on the U.S. drone policy instead. These are discussions where I am fully aware that I belong to a minority in this room, but these are very important discussions. These are questions that we could have had a good time asking ourselves. Because it is possible to make money on most things, but we have a responsibility to decide what we think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e689	In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to have better control of international arms exports. Therefore, Norway must actively contribute to the development of effective control regimes and operational criteria to assess applications for export licences. The aim is to contribute to a safer world. Diplomatic work on peace must be supported by control regimes for arms trafficking. Regimes which are a threat to international peace, or are responsible for the brutal repression of their own people, must not have access to military means that they can use for external warfare or internal repression. The annual press releases on exports of defence equipment contribute to increased transparency and knowledge of arms trafficking and to a completely necessary democratic debate on these issues. The size has been notified for 17 consecutive years about the export of defence equipment. Discussions have contributed to reinforced requirements for reporting and to more precise criteria for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' assessment of company applications for export licences. In a greater reluctance, I would say that the control regimes of arms trafficking have improved, there has been greater transparency, and there has been some more international cooperation to coordinate the rules of arms exports to be allowed. But it has indeed been the little steps march forward. When Norway has military defence and is involved in international defence cooperation, it is natural that we both buy and sell defence equipment. It would not be rational for each country to produce all material for the defence itself. That would make the bill for our military defence bigger than necessary and not least given to small countries worse conditions. Norway and other countries that wish to have strict legislation have an interest in obtaining internationally binding rules in this area. It also has Norwegian manufacturers of defence equipment. In 2011, the Christian People’s Party was among the perpetrators to demand a critical review of exports to authoritarian regimes where there is a risk that the equipment could be used for internal repression or human rights violations. The background was that in the middle of the popular uprisings against several authoritarian Arab regimes it became known that Norway, among other things, had allowed the sale of materials to Libya a few months before the dictator Gaddafi was overthrown. As a result, the government’s report of the year set out both its own guidelines and the practices of other countries. In cooperation with the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, SIPRI, a checklist has been drawn up to systematise assessments of human rights, international humanitarian law and the domestic policy situation. The Norwegian defence industry is also in favour of this. It is a strength to have such broad support and a unanimous attitude in this matter. In order to assess the value of the new checklist, the Christian People's Party took the initiative to ask the government to come back to the Stortinge with information and assessments of the experience of the changed practice of exporting B-materials. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we expect this to lead to a more thorough and stricter practice. As a former youth party leader, I could not avoid noticing a post from all the party leaders in general, pointing to exports to Libya, but also challenging what will happen to exports to other Arab dictatorships. It would have been interesting to know what the Foreign Minister thinks about it. In any case, it shows broad political support for strengthening among the youth parties as well. Over the years, we have had good cooperation with and a great deal of use of input from peace and assistance organisations in their efforts to improve the regulatory framework for arms trafficking. We look forward to continued good cooperation to move forward in this work of peace and arms control. Finally, let me express my joy at the fact that last week the United Nations, with an overwhelming majority, adopted an international arms trade agreement. It is not perfect, but progress, including: in the fight against the illicit arms market. The news is so fresh that it is not in either the message or the setting. However, it shows that work is beneficial and that sustained efforts are also needed in the future in order for the agreement to be ratified on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e712	A foreign commentator wrote in a comment about Norway when the bankruptcy of Kongsberg took place, that Norway must be paradise in the world, since sailing a weapons factory can go bankrupt. Norway has long had a tradition of weapon production, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is still saying that we have the strictest rules for placing on the market. It was just supposed to be missing. We can afford to have it, and we should have it. Today, weapon production consists of so many different components and so many different participants in a production chain – as it is in the production of very many other things of a high technical nature – that there are many different actors involved. Larsen from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said on TV today that we have not sold tanks to Saudi Arabia, and it is probably not as many tanks that roll out from Norwegian weapons manufacturers. We produce components and parts, and we participate in production chains. But that means that it's even more demanding to control the arms export we have, and it makes even greater demands on us and on how we're going to organize it. I am fundamentally positive with the new checklist presented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But I challenge the Foreign Minister to respond to whether it will lead to any real change. I hope the Foreign Minister can answer that. We are currently exporting to some countries to which we in the Left do not think it is right to export, such as the United Kingdom. Saudi Arabia. Sickly if we just export components of different character, we can experience that those components are used for our own population. In the international community we have today, we can see that we need to rescue a civilian population in the fight against a dictatorship, and that weapons or components produced in Norway, in a given situation, may be directed at Norwegian soldiers. I think that's the situation we're not going to get into. That is why it is extremely important that we follow the principles put forward by the government and that they also lead to changes in relation to today's exports, I believe. Then I want to raise a new debate: Norway as a country also owns a lot of companies that are also involved in the production of weapons. Then the government lends itself back and says that there are production rules in the countries in which we own them that apply. Then I believe that at least we need to discuss where we really should have ownership. Are we going to have ownership of companies that are doing things that we wouldn't have accepted if it had been within the Norwegian borders? We have strong rules for that within the oil fund – rules that I also believe should have been tightened up and developed further. I think it's important to make sure that the morality we stand for domestically is also the morality we stand for abroad, and that we don't lean back and say that foreign politicians get to decide the rules for those companies where we have large holdings. Otherwise we'll just have to sell out – then there's no reason to sit on those holdings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e727	I note with satisfaction that the setting is unanimous. It is important for us in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to have broad support for government policy in this area. That's the way it's been in the last few years. Let me start by stating that the defence industry is of strategic importance to Norway. Norway has one of Europe’s most modern and relocated defences, based on a significant commitment to new technology and investment in new material. For the defence, close and close cooperation with the industry is of great importance. The government discussed this in depth already in St. reported. No 38 for 2006-2007 on Defence and Industry. We were then in favour of a much closer cooperation between the Defence and the Norwegian defence industry than had been the case until 2005. The initiative has produced significant results. Since 2005, Norwegian exports of defence equipment have almost doubled. Norway stands out internationally by having an open defence market. While very many countries are trying to buy the most at home, quite independently of both price and quality, Norway imports a large proportion of its own material, actually up to 70 pst. For several large countries in Europe, similar figures are a few percent, while the United States is among the most protectionist. Norway has adopted a different approach. Actually, we import about as much as we export for. This means that the Norwegian defence industry has been able to specialize in special niches, where we in return do so in part very well in international competition. In this way, we overwhelm many of the objectives of both the EU and NATO for more open defence markets. I'm proud of that. At the same time, this means that there is an even greater need for clear and predictable rules, both nationally and internationally, than many other countries have. We want our defence exports to take place within strict and clear frameworks at home, as well as strengthening the international driving rules, as we have recently seen through the ATT arms trade agreement. The defence industry is technology-intensive and knowledge-intensive. The Government is committed to facilitating this industry to remain at the forefront of technological development and maintain important competences. This means ensuring good and stable framework conditions, enabling them to participate in international development and production processes. «Long-term» and «foreseeability» are keywords. At the same time, we are very concerned that we should have, further develop, maintain and strengthen one of the most stringent arms control regimes in the world. It's nice to be able to say that even though exports have risen sharply in the last eight years, it's still about 90 pst. of our exports goes to the NATO countries plus Sweden and Finland. These markets will continue to dominate, while we see that Norwegian industry is increasingly looking for new and more distant markets. Therefore – again – this debate becomes so important. As both the message and the setting emphasise, it is precisely therefore important that we have an up-to-date legislation on human rights and democratic development. It is clear from the notification that the government has taken several steps to ensure timely and continued strict legislation. I appreciate the Committee's support for the measures we are proposing for a more systematic assessment of recipient countries. It is not least that we have established a checklist in cooperation with SIPRI, which several of the speakers have been involved in. We're about to make regulatory changes in line with this. This will include, inter alia: be able to facilitate the suspension of licences previously issued. We also want to change the guidelines. Exports of equipment other than pure weapons, e.g. can be refused on the basis of EU behavioural criteria, i.e. so-called ‘B’ material, such as: The representative Skei Grande was in on. This is going to be part of our guidelines. Let's change the rules. We come back to Stortinget when we have experience of how this changed practice will turn out in terms of our export of so-called B-material. I would also like to mention that the new export control regulation will soon come into force. With this, Norway will implement an EEA-relevant directive, the so-called ICT Directive. The Directive lays down rules for simplifying the licensing of defence equipment to recipients within the EEA. In this way, there will be better conditions of competition in the EEA territory. At the same time, I would like to stress that the decisions to allow exports, or not, will continue to be the responsibility of each country. We have worked hard to reach an international arms trade agreement. It was high time. We believe it became better than we could fear in many ways, and have received broader support. This is an important part of this work. I will end by giving praise both to all the organisations that have contributed to creating interest and understanding in this, and to the Norwegian defence industry, which is an important partner in this work internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e753	In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of the defence industry for Norway. That's something we share and agree with completely. We know that the defence industry is an industry that requires technological focus and competence-based jobs. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel that this can be further developed without jeopardising the current legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e761	I want to start by saying that there has been a formidable development in this area. We see that some of our niche environments are completely in front. This applies, for example: the development of missile technology, where we produce and export some of the most advanced in its potential in this market. It's only been possible because you have an industry that's long-term, that's set on competence, that's set to stay in front. With the Norwegian pay structure, when you have a high degree of automation and many engineers, it is actually possible to compete both on price and on quality in this market. But then we have to have clear frames. We must therefore reconcile these two important considerations: we want industry well, but we want it within the framework of a very clear export control policy. I feel that the defence industry is also happy to say that their success takes place within the framework of a safe and good Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e768	I thank you for a very good post. I think we are all pleased with the broad alliance that is, the broad support and the unanimous attitude that lies here today. I was going to challenge the Foreign Minister for what I was also talking about in my post, just what lessons we have learned from the export of material – as we discovered – to Libya just before Gaddafi's fall, and what consequences today's decisions will have for exports to other Arab dictatorships. I want to challenge the Foreign Minister on how he views the effects of the good things that we can learn from, but also on new tools – in order to avoid a repetition of exports to dictatorships that can use it for outward warfare, but also to suppress their own people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e775	I would first like to say that, in the case of weapons, i.e. A-materials, of course, it has not been exported to countries such as the United States. Libya before Gaddafi's fall. What we saw examples of was the export of materials that were on the B-list. This could be done, for example, by: be concerned with binoculars or radio equipment, the type of question. One important change that is now taking place is that we are tightening up the legislation on B-materials, so that there too we will place more emphasis on issues such as democracy and human rights, and link ourselves to what is called the EU Code of Conduct – precisely in order to have a tighter grip on the export of that type of goods to that type of country. It's a clear and clear ambition from my side. Today, I have received support for it from a total accumulation, as I see it. And then we get to the next crossroads sit down and look at the experiences with this. Export controls are being carried out as companies apply for an export licence. It is by our ongoing practice that we can see how policy changes. But now we have made the legislation clear and made an ambition, in line with what Ropstad's representative asked for, and in line with contributions today from a number of former youth party leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e784	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e800	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and six lines with replies after the contributions of the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e811	European policy has received greater attention in the last year than in the long run. I'm glad. In the past, virtually all discussions have been about the form of association with the EU and whether Norway should be a member of the EU or not. The Norwegian people have said their own thing on this issue, it is not where today’s debate stands – I think it is good. Norway's relationship with the EU and the implementation of our European policy takes place through the EEA Agreement and the other agreements we have with the EU, where the EEA Agreement is the most important. There is a broad consensus in the Committee to deal with the EEA Agreement regardless of the EU position. The EEA Agreement entered into force in 1994 and has had a major impact on the country. It has been important for the Norwegian economy, for Norwegian business and not least for trade. We have served to have common rules in the internal market. Since Norway signed the EEA Agreement, the EU has been in a major change, not least because the number of Member States has increased, and also because the EU has changed its Treaty work, including: by the Treaty of Lisbon. Today, we see that the European Union and Europe face a financial crisis and major economic challenges. It also has an impact on Norway. About 75 pst. of our exports goes to the European market. We therefore rely on the EU to deal with this crisis. It is about securing Norwegian interests, and it is therefore necessary that we also help to mitigate the effects of what is now happening in many countries, including Norway. by strengthening the contribution to IMF support schemes and through EEA funding. That said, it has actually proved that, although Europe is now experiencing a crisis, the internal market has proved to be robust and has acted for trade and inter-country relations. There are several areas that are important for Norway in European policy and where we have important interests. This may be particularly true in the field of energy, environmental and climate policy, district policy, education and, above all, employment. Working life and the rights of workers are many who are concerned when we discuss Europe. In particular, at a time of financial crisis, it is particularly important to ensure wage and working conditions and to combat social dumping. The Norwegian model of working life is highly uplifted in Norway, and in our European policy it is important that it is taken care of. The committee had in its consideration of the big message we're discussing today, a hearing where we got a lot of good input. In particular, there was one area in which many had opinions, and it was that Norway had to use more of the space for action in the EEA Agreement and the other agreements we have. The Committee fully agrees. It is about participating in policy and regulatory design at an early stage. We must enter into when the Commission prepares proposals and when the Council and the European Parliament start their discussions. Once the EU has taken or is in the process of making decisions, it is too late, and in particular it concerns the EEA Agreement. The action space is to be used to safeguard Norwegian interests and it must be used actively from all sides. We have had several discussions in recent years about the use of the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement. The Committee agrees with the government that any use of this right must be based on a balance between Norwegian interests, the matter in question and the risk and consequences of any counter-actions from the EU. The Committee further states that it is important that the right of reservation should be assessed where the specific Norwegian interests are threatened by acts to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. I think that's a wise approach. Finally, a few words about the Schengen cooperation, which has been a bit in the wind lately, can be said. It is a unanimous committee that is committed to combating cross-border crime and shares the government's view on the interest of building on the Schengen cooperation. Today, in the VG, there is a suggestion that today, on 9 April, a system is being launched to exchange information between Schengen countries in order to deal with theft and abuse, among others. stolen passports, precisely as an instrument against cross-border crime. This is a good example and a good example of action in this cooperation. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that an active European policy should be pursued within the framework we have through the EEA Agreement and the other agreements we have with the EU. There is also a broad consensus that we should have more debate on European issues, and that is important. Today, I look forward to the debate we are going to have here in the Chamber and hope that it will be constructive and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e833	The Workers' Party and the Advance Party may agree a great deal on Norway's form of association with Europe, not least in the case of the EEA Agreement. But it's funny enough that there are two parties the Workers' Party has chosen to ally with in the government position, which actually represents the big opposition – even if it's quite small – in terms of the EEA. What I am aiming for is that the Central Party and the Socialist Left have recently decided at their national meetings that the parties should go in to terminate the EEA Agreement and negotiate with the EU some diffuse trade agreements that are not defined. Then I ask: If there were to be a continuation of a labor party government after the fall-up election, will the Workers' Party promise to overrun the two small government partners so to the degrees that the national meetings will be a blow in the air?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e838	‘Overrunning’ may well be on the edge of parliamentary language, my President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e841	The working party does not use that word. It's not allowed to apply it to other parties, just so it's said. To the question from the representative Myhre, I would like to say that it is perhaps Norway's worst-kept secret that there is disagreement between the parties on the European Union issues, including between the government parties. It's not a secret, it's probably everybody's got it all the time. Norway has been governed on the basis of the EEA Agreement and the other agreements we have with the EU. It's been quite fine, so I don't think the representative Myhre should be so very worried. I can promise you that the Workers' Party is committed to the EEA Agreement, so I don't think he should be so very concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e848	One is not very concerned, but when I read the message and hear the statements made by Mr. Hansen today, I wonder whether these almost sister parties – SV and the Center Party – have a completely uncomplicated anti-Europe rhetoric for the Workers' Party. When you read the message and read the setting, after eight years in government, it is now almost the last chance you have to see what kind of red thread it is in government's European policy, and what kind of ambitions you really have. It has been chosen not to intervene in information, information and coordination of European policy in the ministry. Or is this how I have a serious suspicion that the Workers' Party is now almost defeated by the Central Party and the SV's anti-European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e853	The working party cannot be knocked on the ground by anyone. Government cooperation works very well, and we have an offensive European policy. I believe that the big message we are discussing today is a good example of Norway's active European policy, and that is what we intend to continue with. That there are a little different opinions within the government, there is no secret, as I said to the representative Myhre instead, it's all well known. If the representative wants to ask questions to the sister parties, he has to do it, but I think they will confirm that there is good cooperation in the government. We want to have an active European policy, and we have an active European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e858	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e861	There have been two referendums in Norway on EU membership. Both times ended up with a no. Now that we are looking at the situation in parts of the Union, it is not so strange that the polls today show a large no-majority to Norwegian membership, which makes it a little bit topical to a new referendum. Euro-crisis, high unemployment, and ever-new countries entering the EU, make the situation of the entire EU project seem at the moment somewhat unstable. The long-term impact of the crisis in the EU on Norway is uncertain, but it is clear, based on the signals from industry, that the consequences will be – not only in terms of the movement of goods and services in the EU, but we also see a trend towards increasing labour migration to Norway. Economic and political integration has had a serious break that is clearly riveting at the foundations of the European Union, as we also notice here in the country. The more important it is, then, with an agreement that works between the EU and non-EU Norway. The EEA Agreement has worked well for almost 19 years. The Progress Party supported EEA cooperation, and we do so – of course we do. We are not doing anything without close and close cooperation with Europe, and I am actually of the opinion that Europe is not entirely doing without Norway, either. However, the agreement is soon to be 19 years old, and it should have been revised and updated in view of the fact that it has been extended by twelve new Member States and that new Treaty bases have been laid. A great deal has changed in the EU in these years. This applies to the number of Member States, and the Treaty of Lisbon provides more framework directives and not individual directives, thereby making the Directives more comprehensive for Norway as well. Framework directives and many of the actors in the EU's desire for an even more integrated Union make it clear that Norway is constantly coming to border countries for what is a denial of sovereignty, and is therefore also contrary to the Constitution. This is one of the reasons why it is a request from the Progress Party that we review and revise the EEA Agreement. There are several reasons. Through the Maastricht Treaty in 1993, the EU adopted cooperation on security and defence policy, the ESDP. Norway, as the only third country, has its own cooperation agreement with the EU on the ESDP. The EU's ambition to act as an independent actor in the international arena raises several important issues for Norway, including: on the implications for relations with NATO and the United States and their role in Europe. Norway is a member of NATO, and it will always be our main ally, but it is clear that several of the NATO countries may have difficulties in both participating as an EU ally and at the same time being a member of NATO. A little about Schengen. Norway became part of the Schengen cooperation in 2001. At the time, the Progress Party supported this cooperation, but we have become a little more sceptical and critical of parts of it. This is because this cooperation includes 26 countries, and there are very high levels of unemployment and poverty in some countries. Unemployment creates thieves, is called an old saying, and that is precisely what we see when organized gangs, and, to the extent that unorganized gangs, come to Norway to steal, trade in human beings and sell drugs – all because we do not have the necessary and strict control at the outer border. Fortunately, it gives us advantages to stand within this cooperation as well. We have close cooperation with Europol, with SIS and SIS2, which is being launched today, to combat organised crime. We should consider renegotiating the Schengen Agreement in order to tighten the external border control requirements. In addition, there is an important point that internal police and judicial cooperation in the Schengen area must become more effective in preventing and stopping cross-border crime. It's very visible to people most of what's caused by this type of crime. It is necessary for me to stress that many of the problems that are increasing in Norway, probably nevertheless, would have taken place, but they can be stopped more effectively with increased police efforts in addition to more stringent controls at the external Schengen border. So to agriculture. As we can read in our remarks, the Progress Party wants to see how agriculture can also be implemented in a possible renegotiation of the EEA Agreement. This is more than just a matter for consumers to have a larger, wider and, to the extent, better choice of different agricultural products. This is about opening up countries that are much poorer than Norway, and also getting the opportunity to deliver their goods here without the customs barriers being sky high. Nor will the consequences for processed fish from Norway be a meeting of customs barriers in the EU if we open up. This would result in more fish processing remaining in Norway and being able to compete on the large Union market. Of course, we're going to make sure that we have good quality short-range food. But I haven't had anything to put on in any of the European countries I've been in terms of the standard of food. I believe that the protectionist attitude that Norway has now led, last with ostetoll and hydrangea tax, has not contributed to the fact that the Europeans have looked at us with gentle eyes. The four freedoms are under pressure from Norway, one of the richest countries in the world – a great paradox you ask me. In this case, the Progress Party, together with the European actors who believe that the Centre Party is engaged in protectionism, and that the Workers' Party has been led by a government partner who is little different from a special party. The interests of consumers are completely set aside So finally, I'd like to say a little bit about exporting welfare goods. It is the general opinion that welfare benefits such as child benefit, cash support and unemployment benefits are well-being benefits for which workers working and living in Norway are entitled. I can understand that. Why should my tax credits go to children who have never lived in Norway, when children and so many other groups live here, who have contributed to the possibility of these goods, do not get a good enough offer precisely because the state cannot afford expensive medicines, health homes for all or well-kept indoors and maintenance in the schools of our children? It is clear that it is contrary to common sense that guest workers, who work in Norway for a short or longer period, should receive the same benefits as people who live and work here throughout their lives. Goods belong to each country and should remain there. People who want to enjoy the well-being of this country must also be willing to live here. Not that I don't want everyone well, but some rights we still need as foreigners. That it violates the EEA Agreement or directives may be so. No one saw Europe rushing towards an economic downfall, and that labour immigration to Norway would be so great. However, it should not mean that Norway should be a social office for the rest of Europe. Similar debates on the export of welfare goods are also seen in a number of EU countries. It is not only in Norway that exports of welfare goods go far beyond a reasonable definition of the social contract between the country and the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e894	The President would just like to point out that the speaker is talking about the Central Party as a ‘special interest party’. In the opinion of the President, the Centre Party is an ordinary party in the Norwegian Party Flora. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e899	The representative, Woldseth, pointed out that at the time of the conclusion, the Progress Party supported EEA cooperation, that much has happened in the development of the EU, which shows that the EEA Agreement has been flexible and has captured it. But she believes that it should have been revised and updated and takes the floor for a revision of the agreement. That's a very real position, but could she say a little about what she thinks Norway should achieve? What's the purpose of that? It's a little bit important to be clear. That's the one. The second is Schengen. There was the representative, Woldseth, unclear when it came to tightening up the border control, and so did the comments. There is talk about tightening up border controls, which cannot be understood otherwise than talking about the border between Norway, Sweden and other neighbouring countries, but in the posts of the representative she used the term ‘external border control’. It's the West, the coast of Norway. Is that the border with Sweden or the outer border she's talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e906	Thank you for the question. First of all, there's no doubt that that's the outer limit we're talking about. If we had crossed the border with Sweden, we would have somehow left Schengen, and that is not the case. It would also ruin the whole Nordic passagework, so that's the outer limit we're talking about. There are several purposes to the revision. It must be borne in mind that many new Member States have arrived and that the economic situation is also different in Europe, as well as the need to include agriculture in the EEA Agreement, which we believe is timely.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e913	The debate has been high lately on beggaring in Norway. I and others would argue that parts of the language used by some representatives of the Progress Party have been quite extreme, for example. in how the space people are referred to. In the past, the Progress Party has called for the sending of beggars out of the country. Many of the beggars, who are of foreign origin, who are in Norway today, are gypsies. They will then be sent to other countries where the practice towards the space people is often worse — ranging from countries such as France at one end to Hungary, which has stood out negatively in recent times. What I'm asking is whether the Progress Party is at least willing to use EEA contributions more actively to strengthen the space people's situation in Europe. Or is this a challenge you just have to push away and pretend that doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e920	As far as the space people are concerned, the Progress Party wants to facilitate the situation so that the space people do not necessarily have to go to Norway to beg, which the Progress Party sees as trafficking in human beings. In fact, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also contributed to the practicalisation of the fact that EEA funds should go to projects in the area of space, among others. in Romania. We are also working very hard in the Council of Europe to ensure that Roma people in Romania and in those countries where they are in a large minority have a decent life where they are actually going to live and where they really want to belong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e927	We experience daily well that all parties in this room care for their different special interests. Let me just say that to the discussion that was just. Since the representative, Mr Woldseth, mentions ostetoll and agricultural policy in his speech, it is tempting for me to stress that issues of ostetoll are issues of caring for Norwegian business interests, that they are not at the disposal of Brussels and the EU. Does the Progress Party recognise that reintroducing the krone duty on important agricultural products, which I have understood the Progress Party wants, weakens import protection? And does the Progress Party recognise that this will not only lead to a threat to Norwegian agriculture, but also to the fact that, for example, 40 000 jobs in the Norwegian food industry – in the processing industry – could then be at risk? What is the answer of the Progress Party to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e936	Yes, import protection will be threatened. That's exactly what we want, the customs barriers to be built down, and the consumer to get food from other countries too, without having to pay the swimming sums in customs. So that's the reason. We want agriculture to enter the EEA Agreement. The difference between the Progress Party and the Center Party – when the representative Breck says we are all a special party – is that the Progress Party is a special party for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e946	«... already at the end of the 1970s, SVs Finn Gustavsen must have sighed that «we won the referendum, but lost every day since». If that's true then there's an infinite amount more correct in 2013. No side won in 1972 and 1994, but every single day since then Norway has become more closely associated with the EU.’ This is a quotation from an article written by Professor Fredrik Sejersted, Head of the European Investigation, in the Evening Post on 1 February this year. The European Survey, NOU 2012: 2 Outside and within Norway’s agreements with the EU, gave us insights we had not had in the past. It systematized all politics and all history. What didn't fit in the 911-page report is really particularly interested. For us ordinary European enthusiasts and for us who really believe in the European project, it acts as a very useful reference work. It's easy to read, but maybe it's a little hard to carry. I want to point out some of the findings. The agreements with the EU have mainly served Norwegian interests and Norwegian values very well. The Norwegian social model has been further developed over the 20 years of the agreement. Norway's agreements have ensured a safe framework for businesses and citizens. They ensure access to the internal market and the four freedoms. The investigation demonstrates much more clearly than in the past how important the EEA has been for the Norwegian economy and business, mainly through labour immigration, which has served both businesses and, in particular, agriculture well, but also through trade and mutual investment. There is a broad consensus in the UK that the majority of EU legislation is then implemented automatically without any major debate, because it makes sense. In other words, while the issue of membership is controversial, there is an amazingly small debate on EU alignment. The investigation showed with all possible clarity how close we are to the EU. To put it another way: Norway has been through Europe. Through the agreements taken over by Norway, we have also taken over an estimated three-quarters of all legislation. It's like the EU countries that are involved in everything. So we're more integrated than many member countries. The study makes it visible that Norwegian European policies are equally domestic policies, and in this way they do not differ significantly from what is thought of them in Europe. Most EU members believe that European policy is domestic policy. Of course, there are also consequences for how we deal with legislation and decisions. I can't avoid adding a little visit to the Center Party's violent battle against the Right in the Class Battle yesterday. The fact that the government’s policy was to be a ‘national betrayal’ or ‘national disloyalty’ is a very big word from a party that more than any other party is working against the government’s declared and adopted European policy – now at the national meeting at the latest, with a decision to denounce Norway out of Schengen. But it seems that morals are also double morals. Norway is not in a negotiating position, and there is agreement that we should not apply for membership now. Then it is important to discuss how we relate to our main trading partner – where we export about 75 pst. of our goods. When we look beyond the continent and see the changes taking place in the EU, it is more important than ever to get involved in and understand how our agreements with the EU work. The communication is essentially a symbol that European policy in the current government is a compromise. It's a least common multiple. There is one 'yes' party and two 'no' parties, which means that the outcome does not always become offensive European policy. The message, which was supposed to be based on and responded to the most detailed analysis and investigation that has ever been carried out, is pretty thin and little forward looking. It also leaves out to address many of the issues raised by the investigation. The central element of the big message is how we make the best use of the action space. How can we be better able to influence EU policies and regulation? Influence requires both formal and informal channels to compensate for our lack of membership and thereby our lack of formal presence. So what about the use of the action space? Do we use it well enough? I'll probably claim that we don't. The influence and exploitation of the space for action is more than saying no. It requires more than just showing interest in cases where Norwegian interests are concerned. In the previous European Communication, which came in 2006, it called ‘active European policy’. Now it's called the action room, but there's still a deficit of involvement. The EU delegation in Brussels is doing a very good job of defending Norwegian interests. With increased political will and increased political attention from the government, it could be even better. Time and again, we meet both as a committee and in other contexts in Brussels with questions as to why Norway is no longer involved in a specific matter. Norway should be more involved in issues that affect both Norwegian interests and other issues. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee highlights the importance of increased Norwegian participation in the forums where Norway is invited, and strengthened participation by government teams at informal ministerial meetings and through other important channels of influence. Let me stress this last very clearly: both the Committee and the European Committee have pointed out on several occasions how crucial it is for Norway to make, and at the level of the Council of State at informal ministerial meetings. It opens doors, it gives access and it can cause influence. Knowing their European colleagues well enough to pick up a phone, to ask for a position and to promote a Norwegian vision is absolutely invaluable in the EU system. I am also pleased to say that more and more representatives of the big business both from the Committee and from other specialist committees are increasingly attending meetings in Brussels, whether there are hearings in committees or there are other types of meetings. So to point forward, how can we get even better? Well, in the Member States processes are largely driven by deadlines. They don't do that in Norway. Member States are forced to work together to deliver on issues to be addressed to the Council decision. We don't have the corresponding pressure, we get into the process a lot later. In addition, some departments seem to be extra late in implementing legislation. We must therefore have a clear political signal from senior management that this should be given priority, also because the European Union and European policy are domestic policies. We also need better coordination. We've seen some issues where departmental departments are very disagreeable, and it can train processes for a long time. It is a so-called coordination committee that is working on this and that is supposed to coordinate the efforts. Our impression is that it is primarily about the exchange of information and not so much about real coordination, real balance and coordination. It is also important for policy management to be early on the road. Many things start treatment early at the office level. We have had some of the issues discussed in the European Committee, but political involvement often comes only when there is a conflict case, when the flag goes up. Then you start to react. It's about not just having to respond, and not just when things go across Norwegian interests, but actually have an active attitude to the design of the questions. The Swedish people in Riksdagen have a slightly different model than us. They have a European committee which is consulted much earlier in the process, and which seeks to create a broad consensus at a very early stage in policy-making. We also have to work on several levels. We have to work overall and not just with individual things. To put it another way, if we are to have influence in individual cases where we have no formal role because we are not an EU member, it is important to engage in the Community solutions and the whole. That gives us access and opportunity. Norway has, inter alia: Through its involvement in the Middle East, many EU countries have received an intake, not primarily because there has been a question the EU has had at the top of its agenda, but because it has made us a relevant partner. That's how we have to work more. Not only can we safeguard defensive national interests, we must also safeguard the offensive interests. Not least: the EU is developing rapidly. There is a constant shift towards the sharpness of the euro area countries in particular. We must also make a clear commitment to those countries that are now at the forefront of the EU, both at individual level and through the EU. We have to recognise that we have lost many of the bodies within which we had a foot within, precisely because the Treaty of Lisbon has changed the shift in power in the European Union. It has consequences for how we work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e990	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e994	The representative said to use the action room "more than to say no". Yes, of course, and the government has really shown that. There is one example that we have said no, but there are many examples in which the scope for action has been used to care for Norwegian interests: the right to return home, differentiated employer's fee, the renewable directive and the ostetoll are examples. Then we in the committee agree that it is important to use the space for action to take care of Norwegian interests, but the Right Party and the Advance Party have a special comment on the use of the right of reservation. There is also a consensus that there is something that needs to be used with caution, and one has to assess the importance of the interests involved because there is a hole in the contract. But here the Right Party and the Advance Party say that its use should be consistent with the other EFTA countries. Does the representative really think that we should let Liechtenstein decide whether or not to use the right of reservation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1001	As the representative very well knows, the right of reservation is real. It also means the Right, but we are also very aware that it has never meant to be free. It has a cost for those countries that use the right of reservation. That is why, among other things: has been very critical of the government’s use of the right of reservation against the Postal Directive. There is one case that is still pending, in which there is no reply yet. In our opinion, it is also an area where there is obviously no question of caring for special Norwegian interests. It is simply a wish of some parties in the government to show that you can say no to the EU. Should one first choose a case, the postal directive is perhaps the worst thing to choose. I have also registered that the representative Hansen has not had any great desire to face this matter, rather on the contrary. As for the comments, our point is that we should apply the right of reservation, precisely because it has a cost, there should be a point that there is no Norway always doing it alone, but that we do it together with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1008	The representative Eriksen Soreide talks about the art of compromise as if it were something negative. It raises the question of what kind of forms of cooperation the Right sees for itself at any Right Party government, but I will leave it. Eriksen Soreide said that European policy is domestic policy. She is absolutely right in that, and especially when EU directives challenge important parts of the Norwegian model – our welfare state, our district policy and our safety rules on the base – it is important for domestic policy. In the past, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government have been very clear that when EU directives conflict with our obligations in the ILO and workers’ rights, the ILO should be at the top. It's a neat and very simple political clarification to deal with. Can the Right guarantee that they will oppose EU directives and directives that conflict with Norwegian obligations in the ILO?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1017	I notice that the representative Serigstad Valen assumes that there will be a government change for the autumn. Of course, we are very happy and fully in agreement with that. When the question comes about how to deal with individual directives, the answer to that is exactly what I expect from both the Foreign Minister and others will be, that we have to assess the content of the individual directive when it comes, and assess it against Norwegian obligations. I guess any Norwegian government will do that, and the government will do that now. There's also going to be a future government. Of course, we need to stand firm on the commitments we have made, but at the same time we need to assess each directive and see whether it conflicts with those commitments or not. That would be an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1024	I understand that the representative Eriksen Soreide is a bit sore about a look-up in the Class struggle yesterday, but I must be allowed to stress that I have experienced myself that the representative Eriksen Soreide in the European Parliament has said directly that they will reverse this change in the cheese duty proposed by the government. So let's make that a starting point. That is why I also ask the representative from the Right, in the same way as I asked the Progress Party: I recognise that reintroducing the krone duty on important agricultural products would weaken import protection and would result in many farmers, Norwegian agriculture and, for example, Norwegian agriculture. 40,000 jobs in the Norwegian food industry are also at risk? So I would like to end by saying, does the Right agree with the Advance Party that agriculture must enter into the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1033	The representative Breck and I were present at the same meeting. The point of trade relations between Norway and the EU was set up by the EU, something they wanted to discuss. The representative Lars Peder Breck presented the government’s vision. I and several others were asked directly by EU parliamentarians about what we meant. It would be a very strange situation if I did not respond to what our view is. Our view is well known through debates in Stortinget, through newspaper articles, and I believe that the European parliamentarians can read and understand that there is a real political disagreement, because we believe that the customs change sends a wrong political signal, and we also believe that it challenges the intention of Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. That's well-known, and of course we have to express that. So to the discussion of heads and centimetres. Well, in a previous line, the representative said that Norwegian agriculture is threatened by kronetoll. So the question is, if it's so important, why hasn't the government done it before? Why hasn't the government converted into a percentage duty before?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1040	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1043	First of all, and we saw an example of this earlier in this debate, in a line from the representative of Kristiansen: the Norwegian European debate is often reduced to a question of yes or no, of for or against, and finished with it. For all things – it’s important for-and-again issues we’re talking about, but that’s so much more. Let me start by making a firm statement: SV, like the other parties on the Stortinget, and as a very internationally oriented party, are strong supporters of Norway participating in many forms of European cooperation, including in particular: social development, research, education, environmental protection, culture, not least trade, etc. We are all Europeans, completely independent of our view of the Norwegian Member States of the European Union and our differing views on the EEA. Now that we are discussing the EEA Agreement, it is with a Europe in deep economic crisis as a backbone. There is an increase in mass unemployment, and there is a dramatic cut in welfare schemes affecting the population in many countries. It is important that Norway supports the countries in crisis in such a way that the interests of ordinary peoples are maintained and not just those of the banking and financial sector. This big message provides a lot of good advice to ensure the freedom of action within the EEA Agreement better than we have now done, and that is important. Initially, I believe that the agreement involves unnecessary detailed management. Firstly, I appreciate the fact that the notification alerts a stronger alertness from the Norwegian side when it comes to clarifying which new EU acts are relevant to the EEA, i.e. which acts are a necessary part of the EU internal market and are therefore to enter into the EEA Agreement under the conditions. I am excited about whether a new government will have the same offensive view of it – and I might stress it. Secondly, I am very pleased that the notification announces a more active use of the right of reservation against legal acts that could threaten Norwegian interests or values, and this applies in particular to legal acts that intervene in Norwegian working life. I noticed that I did not get anything that was near a satisfactory answer to my question instead. The government has been very clear that we believe that the obligations we have under the ILO Convention are most important, because working life is important to us. I could imagine getting a simple answer from the right. I believe that developments have shown that much of the criticism of the EEA Agreement is correct. The agreement involves detailed management from Brussels and has become much more extensive than many thought. I expect that many of the trailers of the EEA Agreement also agree that it is far more extensive and extends much wider than what was required when we became part of it. There I am particularly concerned that the EEA is jeopardising professional rights, following several judgments in the European Court of Justice that change the power of European labour, the disfavor of employees and trade unions. We must be vigilant. I want to give very much praise to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the clear and clear defence of Norwegian professional rights, and to the Norwegian Labour Codes that the Red-Green Government will protect. It has nothing to do with nationalism, pettyness or just caring about Norway — you can even say that it is the opposite. Especially in times like this, it is important that some countries stick to the basic values of working life that have made us such a good country to live in, and that shows other countries that it is actually possible. In particular, it is important to prevent the impact of many European Court of Justice rulings on labour market liberalisation in Norway. These are issues I have never heard any politicians from the Progress Party or the Right talk about from this pulpit – never in the many debates we have about the EU and the EEA in this Chamber. I could imagine that it was an end. I want to know what the Right thinks about these very important issues. So I thought, at the beginning of the debate here, that it was well possible that the opposition parties would take advantage of the opportunity to create the impression of a possible division among the red-greens. To that it's not much to say other than that all parties have their primary positions, both on the right and the left of the policy. We are working on the long-term goal of getting an alternative to the EEA Agreement, and the short-term goal of government on the basis of it, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. It should really be pretty straightforward to deal with, but for some people it's not. But we succeed with that line. The government has exercised its right of reservation and has refused to include the third EU postal directive. It is important to try to substantiate the importance of, as if the Postal Directive were such a peripheral issue that has no impact on Norway. But it was the first time that the right of reservation was used after the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. In the next period, we will, for example, together with the Center Party, working for the red-green government to use it more actively. Other things that I think are important in the future are that we show solidarity with the people of the EU by providing loans and by other means supporting the welfare state and preventing weakened working conditions, that we ensure that the EEA cannot over-examine tariff agreements and set aside the ILO conventions that Norway has committed itself to comply with, and that the ILO core conventions are given priority over the EEA agreement on working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1066	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1069	It was interesting to hear that the representative Serigstad Valen does not have a long-term perspective on government. That means he didn't intend to be sitting there for so long. SV says that their EEA policy is firm and that the EEA Agreement is replaced by a better agreement for Norway. The EEA Agreement ensures free access to a market with over 500 million inhabitants. The agreement guarantees Norwegian citizens the freedom to settle and apply for jobs throughout the EEA territory. The agreement provides Norwegian companies with the possibility to recruit, purchase and sell goods and services throughout the EEA territory. My question is: On what points does SV think they can negotiate a better agreement for Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1078	Now it is said that haughtiness is falling, and I think I remember that the sloping safety around the government shift was the same four years ago – that's what it's said. I still think the red-green wins. Government cooperation has not made me a NATO member, and it has not made Espen Barth Eide an EU opponent. This is how you cooperate in government parties, and it is hoped that the Advance Party will experience for the first time in the autumn. I'll do my best to prevent it. But I mean, and now I don't think I insult those who are hot followers of the EEA Agreement in this room either, that the EEA Agreement does not have a metaphysical value. It is not that the EEA Agreement is the only way to organise our relationship and our interaction with Europe. Then I think it is a neat position that we in our programme state that we are both opponents of Norwegian EU membership and want an alternative to the EEA Agreement in the long term. It's much tidyer than, for example, to follow the line to the Progress Party, which does not show up and does not want to tell anyone in this country what they really think about Norwegian EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1088	SV’s representative systematically answers the crucial question asked by the representative Woldseth. What kind of signals is that SV has, or to ask in a different way: what would mean that in a new debate on a new trade agreement with the EU, marked by the euro crisis and the financial crisis, the Sökkrik Norway would be able to achieve some new benefits in the field of trade, which we do not have today? The least you have to be able to get answers from those who go to the step of recommending to cancel the nation's most important agreement is what's the option. Rams up a short series of examples of the benefits – I want respect for SV’s alternative road choices if you can prove that Norway and Norwegian workplaces have something to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1095	I have not intended to present a NOU within a 1 minute line to the representative of Kristiansen, but he must also agree that there are many possible ways of organizing our relationship with Europe. The majority of the Norwegian population who see problems with Norway adopting a lot of policies that the Norwegian population does not want, because many parties, unlike the red-green ones, do not dare to use the right of reservation even when it is very important, are issues that the Right should consider. Right is interesting because they say – as Eriksen Soreide said in his speech – that they want more European debate, they want a more open, active and honest discussion about our relationship with Europe. But the debate we have, they wouldn't have, because it says they spread uncertainty. There is an argument that becomes quite a reason for all the time when the right self-representatives are present in this room who have voted against EU directives, for example. against the Data Storage Directive. This monolithic perception that it is the EEA Agreement or nothing is a game for the gallery with which the Right operates, and it reduces the Norwegian population to be stupid. I think the Norwegian population knows far better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1102	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1105	The EU is today our main trading partner. We depend on good, stable and predictable relations and agreements with EU countries and with the EU. Our nearest neighbouring country is members. It is obvious that we should have a predictable foreign and trade policy, not least on EU and EEA issues. The Central Party’s national meeting has once again confirmed its fundamental opposition to the EEA Agreement this weekend. Our fundamental scepticism is based primarily on the democratic deficit resulting from the agreement. NOU 2012: 2, Outside and within, on the basis of which the Landfill Communication is based, it appears that the democratic deficit is embedded throughout the EEA structure. The committee believes that there are clear democratic weaknesses in today's form of association and has analysed this from four key features of a well-functioning democracy. On three out of four, the EEA Agreement scores slightly, and the fourth is ambiguous: Firstly, Norway is not represented in the decision-making processes that effectively govern the development of major and important parts of Norwegian law and policies. Secondly, the possibility of democratic control and accountability is weak. Thirdly, there are major gaps and weaknesses in knowledge and debate on Norwegian European policy, which mean that this area little meets democratic demands for open and informed societal debate. I would add that greater attention must also be paid to the EU's weaknesses in its basic design for a more knowledge-based debate that can reduce the democratic deficit. The fourth criterion is rights and rights protection for private citizens and businesses. The committee believes that the agreements with the EU in general have led to strengthened rights and more judicial control. At the same time, this limits the scope for action of elected bodies. The EEA debate is, of course, often concerned with the practical consequences of the agreement – immigration, import protection, popular and unpopular directives. But we should not forget that the EEA Agreement is rooted in something fundamental. The EU, as a superstructure of the nation states, is not democratically structured, even though the Member States of the EU are of course democratic countries. I have no problem recognising the EU and therefore the EEA Agreement, by building on the EU's fundamental principles as important for a more stable Europe. However, it is obvious that economic cooperation in Europe in particular has broken down in recent years. The centre party is engaged in the open and biased EU and EEA debate. In my view, it is most relevant when it comes to the relationship between Norway and the EU that is the subject of debate and not the issue of an EEA agreement or not. The centre party is concerned that Norway, like all other countries, needs a regulated trade policy. The debate on the space for action in the EEA Agreement is about caring for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian businesses. In this way, we strengthen maritime law. This is also how we ensure Norwegian interests. Norway’s use of the space for action within the agreements we have concluded is a deliberate prioritisation of national interests and Norwegian business, rather than business in the EU. I am concerned that Norway has to abandon the naivety of trade policy. All countries negotiate on the basis of their own interests. There's a bone-hard realism. We also need to be able to use the space for action contained in the different agreements. The notification refers to the possibilities available to the Norwegian authorities to influence the content of the legislation, and to whether and how national legislation is to be implemented, inter alia. by vetoing the Postal Directive and changes in customs protection. Here I would just like to point out that I note that the Right will not respond to whether the introduction of ostetoll goes beyond Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry, nor do they say anything if they agree with the attitude of the Progress Party that agriculture is to be included in the EEA Agreement. In addition, we have secured the fall-back scheme and a differentiated employer's fee, to mention some examples. This shows that the red-green government in practical work serves national interests through its European policy. The role of the central party as a government partner is not influenced by our position in principle in the EEA Agreement. The agreement between the Workers’ Party, the SV and the Centre to govern on the basis of continued NATO membership, the EEA Agreement and the non-application for EU membership only confirms the government’s governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1147	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1150	We take note of this fundamental and fundamental resistance to the EEA Agreement on the part of the Centre Party. It is, however, in quite a contrast – now probably more than I am a little confused – to what is stated in the Committee's comments, a unanimous remark that has also been made by the Centre Party, and which reads as follows: ‘The Committee points out that the EEA Agreement has been in force for 19 years and has worked for a period of stability and economic growth for Norway. It has been important for the development of the Norwegian economy, business and foreign trade.’ What's right? Is it the fundamental and fundamental opposition to the EEA Agreement that is the view of the Centre Party, or is it the comment of the Centre Party that defines the EEA Agreement as important for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1162	There is no doubt that the EEA Agreement has many positive effects on Norwegian business, and there is no doubt that the EEA Agreement will safeguard the interests of many operators in Norwegian business. We have always said that on the part of the Central Party. But what I said in my post – and as I stress – is that the problem with the EEA Agreement is the democratic deficit in the EEA Agreement. It is quite strange, I think, that the Progress Party and the EEA members do not recognise this democratic deficit to a greater extent. It is not least underlined in the NOU that is the basis for the Storing Message. It points out exactly what I said, that there is a democratic deficit of at least three out of four criteria that they have examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1169	I have no problem joining the representative Breck's descriptions of the democratic deficit in the EEA Agreement. However, I also join in his description from 15 November last year in Stortinget, where he said that ‘it is obvious to everyone that we are dependent on good, stable and predictable relations and agreements with the EU countries and with the EU’. The European Commission points out that the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement are the main agreements of the 76 agreements we have with the EU. In the wake of the Central Party national meeting, I have to ask: does the representative Breck still believe that it is obvious to everyone that we are dependent on good, stable and predictable relations and agreements with the EU countries and with the EU, or would he make an exception for the Central Party national meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1178	I want to say that I have great respect for majority decisions at a national meeting. However, I would like to stress that, in the case of Schengen, we should not underestimate the problem of increasing cross-border crime, which has been part of the basis of the debate on Schengen that we have had at our national meeting. Of course, this case becomes a matter for new government negotiations. The end of the centre party in the election determines how much of the party program we've adopted, we're going to get through. Then I want to say that there is a long way forward before we can be ready to report Norway out of Schengen. The proposal adopted at the national meeting has not been reworked and clearly implemented from day one. Now we're going to start a strategy to figure out how to follow up that decision. I want a professional investigation into how Norway can exit Schengen. This should be part of a government statement – at least it is the views of the Centre Party in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1185	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1188	Norwegian European policy has the EEA Agreement as its main foundation. The agreement has proved to be a robust and sound basis for our economic relations with EU countries over 19 years. Since 1994, therefore, all Norwegian governments have been crystal clear that the EEA Agreement will serve as the basis for our relationship with the EU. I would like to underline the value of – and I am pleased to – the fact that a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence states that Norway is served with a common regulatory framework in the internal market. As a unanimous committee expresses it, and as it has also been quoted earlier, the agreement has ‘host and are important for the development of the Norwegian economy, business and foreign trade’. Over 19 years, EEA cooperation has worked and contributed to stability and economic growth for Norway. Over the almost 20 years of operation of the EEA Agreement, the Norwegian mainland economy has grown by about 3 pst. annual average. That's good, when we know that the average for the OECD area as a whole over the same period was 2.2 pst. annual growth. The professional proportion has increased. Employment has increased, while unemployment has decreased — yes, it is actually more than halved, from 6.5 pst. in 1993 to about 3 pst. Now. Not every country is so lucky. Contrast is high in some EU countries. Many countries were severely affected by the financial crisis in 2008, and the euro crisis has since seriously worsened the situation for many countries, especially in the southern part of Europe. The high unemployment rate in countries such as Spain and Greece is both an economic and human tragedy. The causes of such a failure lie both in the weakness of monetary union and in the malpractice of individual countries. The consequences are heavy for millions of European citizens. For Norway, it has been natural to show solidarity with disadvantaged countries in the EEA region. Since 1994, we have contributed billions to social and economic cohesion through EEA funds. Both in cooperation based on the EEA Agreement and in Schengen cooperation, it is important that Norway actively uses its potential to influence the development of the acquis. In addition, we need to use the space we have in the management of the agreements. We could probably be better at using different channels of influence. It is particularly important to contribute to an early stage of regulatory development. When the premises are added, the possibilities are greater, then they become more limited. There is also room for improvement both in coordination between departments and in other ways. Now that the European Parliament has gained a more important role in the European Union, we can also contribute more directly as magnification representatives. We should receive an annual delegation from the Stortinget to the European Parliament and improve the contact network for the party groups there. This shows the setting for a broad consensus. EU agencies have gained a more important role in regulatory development. We need to develop institutional solutions to facilitate the promotion of Norwegian interests towards these institutions. Nordic coordination is also an important strategy for influence. In addition, we must actively use the EU's northern dimension, together with Iceland and Russia, to engage in a dialogue with the EU on north-eastern policy. Both EEA and Schengen cooperation include countries that are close to us. It is therefore important that the suspension shows unanimity on so many points, not only in the case of EEA cooperation. It is also a unanimous committee that shares the government's view on the interest of building on the Schengen cooperation. We must actively use the cooperation that this gives Norway to influence the development of new legal acts, so that Norwegian interests are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1222	Kjell Arvid Svendsen was positive and gave praise in its mention of the EEA Agreement. He has every reason to do so, because the Christian People's Party was very active when it came into place in the Stortinget. I'm probably the only one in the Chamber right now who has had as long membership of the Storting as the EEA Agreement has existed. It has only been a joy – it has been an economic growth and a stability that has been outstanding. I just have a small question for Kjell Arvid Svendsen, because I think he drew up a part of what the committee also points out, namely the democratic deficit. The question is about the influence we're going to have on the future. Svendsen mentioned the northern areas. What concrete action does the representative Svendsen now intend to take in the future in order to have the important influence, in particular on the Northern Region policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1229	We in the Christian People's Party, as Nordtun says, are very pleased with the EEA agreement and the opportunity it gives us, and we are satisfied with the way it has worked. But we always have to look at opportunities and look ahead – can we do something even better? That's why I also show that in the setting that exists today, the Christian People's Party has signed up, and I guess it actually agrees with the government parties in total. But with regard to the North, it is very important for both fisheries and other resources that we have close and good cooperation with, among other things. Iceland and Russia, with which we should definitely have common interests in that sector, including in relation to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1234	After all, the government has taken important steps to strengthen the protection of imports recently, which will be essential for agriculture to increase its profitability in the future. Since the potential government co-operation partner of the Christian People's Party Right will not respond to the threat of reintroducing the krone duty on important agricultural products weakens import protection and leads to many jobs for farmers, but also 40 000 industrial jobs, I must also ask if the Christian People's Party supports its government partners at that point. They have said in the past that they share the objectives of the government – i.e. the red-green government – in agricultural policy. At the same time, they have stated that they want government cooperation with the Right Party and the Advance Party. So while the red-green parties are concerned with strengthening agriculture, it seems that the Right will simply reverse the customs regime that the government is taking, and remove budgetary resources, and the Progress Party has said that they want agriculture into the EEA Agreement. How does the Christian People’s Party view the challenges it will present in possible government negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1239	It was kind of nice to hear the expression ‘the government partners’, that one has already got us into the government. We haven't gotten that far yet. We have not come into negotiations, and we must have a choice first, so we will now wait and see how it goes. But the Christian People's Party has a warm heart for agriculture, I think the representative Breck knows very well, and what might happen in future government negotiations after a choice, we get to take it. Now we've just witnessed a government that has a very different view of using this, and it's managed to survive, so in case we get back to if we get that far. Now we have to make the choice first, and then we get to bet that we make such a good choice that at least it's going to be a government change. Then we'll get it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1244	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1247	I want to start by thanking you for a very good, interesting and very much coordinated attitude. Once again, this is a field in which there is broad agreement on the important questions, and it is not obvious. Given the uplifting rounds we have had on the very issue of membership, there is a very broad consensus on our current form of association with the European Union, and I think it is important to take this debate into account. There is broad agreement that the EEA Agreement ensures stability and predictability for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian society and for Norwegian economy, and that it is a fundamental foundation of Norwegian European policy. We have also, since the very important message from the Sejersted Committee was presented, not only given our message, but we have also received the views of both the Council and the Commission on the same issues. It is interesting and positive to note that the tone of those reports is also fundamentally positive to the EEA Agreement and its form of association. It appears that there is agreement both on our part and on the EU side that the EEA Agreement delivers mainly along the lines on which it was intended to deliver. It is important to note. It is also interesting in debates on alternative forms of association that there is a significant increase in the use of words on the part of the EU in relation to, for example: The Swiss solution to a number of bilateral agreements with the EU, which they are now saying, has actually come to an end. In contrast, we see that we have a dynamic and effective form of connection based on the fact that we have twice voted no to the European Union. I voted in favour, and as well as previous and current yes-man, I would like to say that it is clear that there is a democratic deficit in the EEA Agreement. There can be no doubt that a Member State of the EU has a greater influence on developments in the EU than a non-participating country. It was an argument that we, which belonged to a large minority, tried to make as late as 1994, but it was therefore voted down. Given that, we have a form of connection that gives us less influence than if we had been involved, but still has considerable room for influence. So we've put a lot of emphasis on what we call the action space. The action space is not just about doing things differently, it's about influencing by participating early in processes, affecting the outcome of processes in the EU, and first if it doesn't succeed and we still want a different course, looking at adjustments in relation to implementation with us. There I believe, as a comment to the representative Eriksen Soreide, whether we are good enough at it, that we are significantly better than was the case before 2005. The long list as, among other things, Svein Roald Hansen referred to some examples from, showing it. Can we get better? Yeah, and that's the essence of the message. We're going to be even better at coordinating, even better at being early, even better at involving all relevant parties, even better at thinking strategically in European policy. Then we have stressed that there are some areas where we are particularly concerned about taking an active role towards Europe. Case No. 1 are the issues related to working life and well-being, the European social model, and the continuation of Norwegian and Nordic traditions in that field. I believe that the progress since we were serious about this last autumn has been fundamentally positive. We have received many important clarifications, not least through the clarification in the yardcase, which show that it is fully possible to maintain the basic planks in the Norwegian social model and in Norwegian labour rights in the EEA. It is also the main findings of this field in the investigation into the Sejersted Committee. I believe it has been further confirmed that we can work towards social dumping and that we can maintain the principle of collective rights. Right these days, we have a big ILO conference in Oslo. It is the European Regional Assembly. There is the top management in the ILO, the top management in the OECD, there is one of the Vice Presidents of the International Monetary Fund, who we have had with two Commissioners from the EU, where we have leading representatives of employers and employees in Europe. A very central point in this conference has just been to put on the agenda the problem of finding in several European countries that the model of dialogue, the model of cooperation between workers, employers and countries is in the process of collapsing. How can we get it back on track? How can we work together on this? I also believe that this is an example of active European policy. Furthermore, energy policy, the environment, climate, food security, research and education, regional and regional policies and access to the sea food market are examples of areas in which we are particularly high-priority and in which we also feel that we are receiving broad support in the committee's position. So a few words about Schengen. As the representative Eva Kristin Hansen said, it has been a very poor secret that the Central Party has been skeptical of Schengen. I remember that they voted against, and I think there would be more headlines on the Central Party national meeting had concluded that now they think Schengen is a very good idea. But as Lars Peder Breck here and repeatedly fixed, the basis is also for the next round of the Stoltenberg II government. It's clear where we are in relation to that question. The more interesting it is to hear Mr Woldseth's comments on Schengen, which would give a possible blue-blue-making a number of interesting things to talk about with regard to the description given there of why we need a renegotiation of the Schengen Agreement along some of the tracks that we have also heard in the public debate. Then I would like to say that this is not the case when someone comes to a possibly restored Norwegian border with passports because we have left Schengen, that there are bankers or drug traffickers in that passport. It will also be for the rarest units to state for themselves that the purpose of visiting Norway is to rob, steal or rape Norwegian citizens. On the other hand, we have something called the Schengen Information System. There we have a system in which we can input experiences with some of the same citizens, which means that we have a significantly better basis for judicial and criminal cooperation across borders than what we actually had before. The United Kingdom has remained outside Schengen. Very well known is crime in the United Kingdom as well. It is therefore not the case that Schengen membership alone determines this. But cooperation at European level is important in this context. I would also like to thank you for the clarification we have received from the Progress Party. I think that is very honest, tidy and real by the representative Woldseth to come up with, namely that the violent series of attacks on the government's relatively modest change in customs policy in some particular cheese regions has a deeper reason, that the import protection is actually going to be built down: 'That is the reason', as the representative Woldseth said. I think that makes it much easier to deal with, because then we see what it really is about. The more important it is that we can gradually get an answer to questions that Lars Peder Breck has asked in many rounds of these debates: What do the other parties think about it? What's the real reason for the other parties that also have the same view of ostetoll? It's not like we have different opinions in this government about this. We have one opinion, we defend the policy we have. We do so, I believe, in luck in Europe, but it is a debate that is not to a small extent maintained by a strong commitment on the Norwegian side. Then it is clearly important to clarify the reasons for this. So I want to say that we're busy with the work we all have to do. The government has a very important responsibility, we have to work for stronger coordination, to see processes early. It must be operated by the social partners and Norwegian organisations. It is also very welcome that there is an increasing involvement of Norwegian wholesale representatives, from Norwegian parliamentarians, towards not least the European Parliament. I think we should strengthen that. Many of us also participate in international party cooperation. It is an important channel to use for those who have natural sister parties in Europe to capture and suck the impression of what is in the pipeline, but also to influence and set a Norwegian agenda. Through five large-scale projects, six governments have taken the EEA as the basis for Norwegian European policy. That's all reason to think that we're going to continue for years to come. I do not see the outlines of a forthcoming debate on membership. Nor do I see that it is a citizen to become a majority for a completely different European policy. That is why we must agree on what is the essence of the message and the setting: using the form of connection we have provided, as actively as possible, both for the benefit of the collective interests in Europe, and – where necessary – for the benefit of the interests we have. There we are on the right track, but through good cooperation we will be able to continue to be even better at doing just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1273	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1276	I expect that the Foreign Minister either did not hear what I said in my speech, or did not understand intentionally in the case of Schengen and the revision in that regard. I expect our representative, Peter N. Myhre, to come back to the matter to clarify this for the Foreign Minister. I'm going to ask him two completely different questions. The Foreign Minister is well aware of the British EU debate, I assume. As you know, the British want a renegotiation of some chapters and renounced sovereignty. This is due to a strong desire in the UK population and in the political system to ensure that the EU does not evolve in a negative, supranational direction. This is a wish shared by a majority of the population in most EU countries, showing polls. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think this process will affect Norway? Does he think that Norway can in any way benefit from engaging in this topic?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1285	This is an important and central question, but my first impression is to say: there you can see how things work when you get a conservative government, because then you get many other kinds of questions related to the European debate. There is no doubt that the dividing lines in the EU's own debate on Europe follow slightly different tracks from ours, and there is a very widespread view – among some of those who are probably close to Woldseth's party, too – that there will be too much Europe, too much integration and too much country, and that it is a sort of hidden socialist project. We do not believe that on the left – at least not in my party. What is important, is that I believe the consequences of the speech to Prime Minister Cameron, is that there has actually been an agreement among all the other members of the European Union to try to defend the established, the so-called ‘aquis’. You can negotiate different models from here up, but you can't have different ways of getting out of some of the collaboration. In that case, Britain must have a debate on the whole connection, which goes even deeper than what I believe Prime Minister Cameron intended to suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1292	I'm going on to another foreign policy question. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is, of course, also well aware of the announced negotiations between the EU and the United States on a major free trade agreement, following an initiative by Barack Obama in his State of the Union speech. This has been strongly focused on. Such an agreement would have an undue impact on Norwegian interests, both because Norway is part of the EEA territory and because bilateral trade between Norway and the United States has a large extent. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that Norway, through any EFTA cooperation, can become a part of and benefit from such an EU-US free trade agreement as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1302	There is active work going on right now in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the government to consider how to deal with this through the alternative tracks that open up, whether it is an EFTA channel, a bilateral channel or some kind of connection to the EU agreement, possibly in a few years' time, because this is going to be a long and demanding process. But I would like to remind you – at least it is my ideological basic view – that we should get to a successful WTO agreement first and foremost. The reason why there is a lot of talk about bilateral agreements is that it does not work in terms of multilateral processes. We have to deal with that. That is why there is every reason to say that we cannot have a worse trade agreement with the United States than the EU countries have, but we must not forget that the most important thing is to build up collective multilateral agreements in which all, or as far as possible, countries are involved. If this discussion of all the new bilateral agreements is completely overtaken, it will challenge the dynamics of the WTO itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1307	You don't have to go all the way to the United Kingdom to find disagreement between sister parties. After all, the Swedish sister party to the Central Party considered that the Schengen decision was directly alienated and that it was only the Swedish Democrats who argued in the same way. My question concerns what I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs has as a hot defence of the EEA Agreement, where he also says that there is a unlikely solution that the Swiss model will win some particular terrain in the EU in the future. We also see that the EU is increasingly concerned with homogeneity, and not least with avoiding the so-called ‘cherry picking’ of individual countries. The fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs said so clearly that the EU is now in a state of crisis in its use of words and that the Swiss solution is at the end of the road is a clear signal that a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement is a unlikely scenario. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs also say something about whether he considers it at all conceivable that Norway could have an agreement with the EU different from that based on the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1314	If the question is whether it's possible that we get a different and better deal, I think the probability of it is very small. It is quite possible to get a different agreement, but it is hardly as good, seen with Norwegian eyes. It is important to remember that the EEA Agreement was negotiated between seven EFTA countries and twelve EU countries. The EU was also larger, but it was a completely different symmetry. EFTA was the main trading partner of the EU, and we negotiated with Sweden, Switzerland, Austria and Finland, as well as the present ones. So if we are to renegotiate, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein – three important countries in Europe – will be against 27, almost 28 countries, with a total of 500 million inhabitants. That we could come to e.g. Bulgaria and say that they should take more account of the particular Norwegian problems we are facing, I believe that it is so unlikely that I believe we are doing well to build on the agreement we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1319	Country meetings are used for policy development, and they are used for the promotion of their own policies. I don't know how important the Central Party and the SV national meetings have been for policy development. But both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I know very well about the marketing that has been of both the EU and EEA scepticism of the two parties. The disagreement on EU and EEA issues was also apparent in the contributions of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen. She used the words "Norway's worst kept secret." Yes, there is no secret, but it would have been interesting to know what the Minister of Foreign Affairs thinks is the SV's and the Central Party's most important victors in this matter we are now discussing, namely the European Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1324	Since I wish my government partners well, I have to say that the fantastic interest that the national meetings have created – not least in the opposition here – they must be very pleased. So most of the debate on a position where there is a broad consensus is questions from the opposition about what we think about the Central Party and the SV national meetings, and it's good for parties that want to get even bigger than they are today in polls, to get that attention. I admire them. I believe that there have been significant joint victories in EEA policy. We have led a more active European policy. We have created and used an action room much more actively in several cases — often with good luck — than was the case, for example. under the Bondevik II Government. I mean, we're together about that. Different parties have different emphasis on what is most important of those issues, but there is a long and good list that we have pursued an active European policy. But we have also become increasingly integrated into Europe. The Seirsted Committee concluded very clearly that the number of agreements with the EU has increased considerably since 2005. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1331	Then I think I can confirm that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that there have been no winners for the Central Party and SV in the preparation of the European Communication, which has in some way been at the expense of the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1336	I said that we have had a number of joint victories by pursuing a European policy based on what we agree on, namely that we should govern from the EEA, Schengen and other agreements with the European Union. Then we have worked on what matters are particularly important to us, and that is what is summed up in a message that the government is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1344	Perhaps the most interesting thing to say about the replications we've experienced here from the opposition is that they confirm the broad opening up of government's European policy. So you don't have anything to challenge the government. It's just a matter of trying to make what we can call fun of what everyone knows, that there's a fundamental disagreement between two of the government parties and the Workers' Party about how our relationship to the EU should be. However, despite this, it is possible to govern and pursue an active European policy, for the benefit of Norwegian interests. There is broad consensus in the view that the EEA Agreement and our other agreements with the EU are important to Norway. They safeguard our interests in the European integration process in the best possible way, after we – by hardly a majority – opted out of membership in 1994. The European investigation, on which the Single European Act is based, made two points clear: we are deeply integrated into EU cooperation, fully in line with several Member States, and this has served us well. When things have gone so well in Norway, it is not because we stayed outside the EU in 1994, but because we joined the internal market through the EEA Agreement, and because we have conducted a wise economic policy here at home. Not in any of the areas where many fear that membership would impose undesirable restrictions on our national policies has this fear proven to be striking. In many of the policy areas where Norway was in the front 20 years ago, the EU has moved strongly towards our policies. In some areas they have gone further. The European investigation led to a certain debate on the EEA Agreement. An analysis of possible alternatives to the EEA was carried out. To those who want to replace the EEA Agreement with an old-fashioned free trade agreement, I would say the following: Of course, customers in our European neighbouring countries will buy Norwegian goods and services if we only have an old-fashioned free trade agreement with the EU. That's not the point of that debate. The point is that the EEA Agreement does not only give Norwegian companies access to the market, it does not provide any security for free trade agreements, because we are covered by the rules of the common market. If Norwegian companies are discriminated against, there is a complaint body and a court. That benefit is only the EEA Agreement, or membership, that gives. In addition, even if we were not to be in the internal market, Norwegian producers would still have to deal with much of the legislation. Not one litre of chemicals are sold in the internal market without meeting the requirements of the REACH Directive. That is why we see that EU product requirements are now setting a global standard. It is equally important that the EEA Agreement also gives us the security of our European neighbours. When we are there, as students or employees, or we choose to spend part of the pensioner's life in a southern country, we are treated as the country's own inhabitants. Those rights and that security cannot give us a free trade agreement. If we choose to get out of the Schengen cooperation, a thought The Progress Party Lefler is in the position – and I am glad that Karin S. Woldseth explained to the extent that it is the outer limits they are talking about tightening control – it is up with the passports, whether we are going over Svinesund or taking the plane to a southern country. More seriously, we will then also step out of the important police cooperation. Cross-border crime must be combated by cross-border police cooperation. The challenges posed by the use of freedom of movement by the cellars also need to be addressed in other ways. Rather, we need to strengthen cooperation. There is a broad consensus that we need to exploit the space of action that lies within this cooperation. It is about two things: we need to do what is possible to participate in the development of new policies and legislation, so that it also captures Norwegian peculiarities and interests. Secondly, we must use the possibilities that always lie in the implementation of new directives, so that the provisions function properly, in a Norwegian reality. The action room is not about being able to choose and reject what provisions we want to include. If there is a directive that violates Norwegian policy so strongly that we cannot accept it, the right of reservation exists. But it means that there will be a hole in the agreement, an area where we do not have common legislation. Then we have to accept the consequences. The right-wing party's remark that the use of the right of reservation must be in accordance with the other EFTA countries is somewhat surprising, and I do not think I got any good answer from the representative Eriksen Soreide on my question about it. For there shall be agreement also on the EFTA side, so that if one of the countries reserves itself against a directive, it will also apply to the other countries. The question is therefore: if Iceland or Liechtenstein disagrees with Norway, which wants to use the right to reserve for our national interests, should we then let the two countries decide not to do so? That should clarify to the right. There has been a certain debate on the chapter on employment. If we want to avoid the rules in this area, the agreement collapses. It is so fundamental to ensure a level playing field that our neighbouring countries will never be able to accept what we want to do in this area. They wanted to see it as an opportunity for Norway to relax the legislation, and to tighten it up, there is a great deal of scope for doing so. The European investigation shows that the common provisions in this area have strengthened the rights of workers across Europe and raised the standard of health, environment and safety — including in some areas in Norway. However, we must ensure that the common provisions in this area respect our working life model, how much is left to the parties and less to the legislators. The EEA Agreement has proved robust and flexible. It works well, although EU cooperation has undergone almost incredible developments since 1994. Cooperation has expanded and deepened and the number of member countries more than doubled. But there are challenges, of course it is. The EU's more horizontal policy design makes it more demanding to decide what falls within the scope of the agreement and what falls outside it. The EU is drawing up common policy objectives, such as: in climate policy, and it is not given that we should or want to share those objectives. A more pressing challenge is that agencies are given the competence to intervene with Member States and with enterprises in Member States. Then we'll have problems with the Constitution. It's a problem we share with Iceland. This applies, inter alia, to: the new financial supervision. We cannot deal with these powers as we have done with developments until now. Therefore, a unanimous committee asks the government to find an institutional solution in line with the two-pillar system on which the EEA Agreement as a whole is based. This is also necessary for Iceland, which has an even smaller opening in its constitution to transfer competence to non-member international bodies. Many EU countries are still deeply affected by the economic crisis. The way out may seem longer now than we thought for a while. The crisis is not created by EU cooperation. It is national politicians who have to take responsibility for their agreed debt and deficit requirements not being followed. On the other hand, the EU countries have, in an impressive short time, embarked on relief packages and supervision aimed at improving the monitoring of banks and finances in the countries. There is agreement that the way out of the crisis is more and deeper cooperation, not less. That's good, because it's most in our interest that our most important export markets get a line on the economy. But most importantly, unemployment and the social tragedies that follow in the wake of the cold water can be combated for the millions of our European neighbours who are now affected. In the debate we have received a clarification from the Progress Party on Schengen. It was useful to clarify that it is the external borders they want a better control of, not to take Norway out of Schengen. I am pleased as a representative of Eastfold, because the Eastfold Progress Party has called for the reintroduction of passport controls on Svinesund. It's good that they don't get through to it. But then the Progress Party in the vote, and Karin S. Woldseth repeated this in the debate, said that they want agriculture into the EEA Agreement. That's an interesting point of view, and I think the Right should say if there's a thought they share, if it should happen that they're going to sit down and negotiate government cooperation for the harvest. At the same time, the Progress Party notes that they do not want EU agricultural policy. That's kind of weird. I do not think that agriculture can be included in the EEA Agreement without incorporating the EU's agricultural policy into the EEA Agreement. So here I think the Progress Party has some wish dreams. Finally, Karin S. Woldseth said that it is said that “unemployment creates thieves”. Karin S. Woldseth is wrong. ‘Leisure does thieves’; that’s the way the saying is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1388	I think the most useful explanation in today's debate is to listen to all the red-green politicians who are calling for government change in September, and it is predicted that their own government will have to lose. It's obviously both government parties and a government saturated with days, who want to get away from the compromise's ride and over in isolation. Norway is served by strong and close cooperation with the EU. The EEA is our lifeline to the EU. Whether it is knowledge, research, police cooperation or culture — to mention only a few areas — the EEA Agreement is an important area. Economically, of course, the agreement is very central. Our trade with EU countries is about 75 pst. of Norwegian exports. The migration of labour through Schengen cooperation is extremely important for Norwegian businesses, and we Norwegian consumers benefit from it every single day. The agreement contributes significantly to mutual investment. An EU that goes well financially secures Norwegian jobs. It contributes to Norwegian growth and provides Norway with better opportunities to provide good welfare services. I believe that, regardless of whether you are a member or an opponent of Norwegian EU membership, you have to be governing. The communication, which should be a political follow-up to the European external and internal investigation, has become a thin communication, characterised by few responses. I am not afraid of debate, and at the same time there is a significant need for knowledge. On the right, the debate on the importance of Europe and the EEA for Norway is welcomed. We do not want at least a debate related to the Norwegian Space for Action. However, the debate must not create uncertainty about Norwegian positions and what is government policy. Another useful discussion is how Norway should use the room for opportunity that is. There have been several discussions on Norway’s presence in Europe, both linking contacts and influencing open doors. Let it be raised above all doubt: it is best done with political contact – at the level of the Council of State, but also at the parliamentary level. The right is already doing so today in close and close cooperation with our sister parties in the EPP cooperation. The government is doing it to some extent. However, if one considers the level of ambition of the Central Party leader and government member Navarsete, she says – something similar: if there are important issues, they can also come to Norway. I think it's the wrong angle of incidence. We should always have as a national approach that we should be present where decisions are made. We're going to be in front, and we're going to do our best to influence, so that it's the Norwegian positions that eventually win through. When we talk about the cooperation party to the party, it's also very important. I talked a little bit about Right cooperation with our sister parties. Although I do not want the Central Party so much good in Norwegian politics, I think it is a pity that they are moving away from their sister party in Sweden and thus get an ever larger political desert between the two parties. The last few days’ quotes in Norwegian newspapers are a good example of this. At the same time, I fully agree with Mr Breck's description when he says that: ‘It is obvious to everyone that we are dependent on good, stable and predictable relations and agreements with EU countries and with the EU’. It strikes me as almost incomprehensible that the Center Party uses so much of its political power to make the opposite true. I must also say that I was amazed to read yesterday's Class struggle, where it says that the Right has performed 'nationally unfair'. I find it to be a gross and completely wrong statement. In the case of ostetoll, which is otherwise managed claws and a clear breach of the intention of the EEA Agreement, the Centre Party cannot be held responsible for the problems of the Government. This is the government's fault. A single Commission, a single Council and parliament are opposed to Norway, and I do not think that the Right was able to do so. If we had done that, it would have been a political trick.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1410	It has been said several times today that the EEA Agreement is important for Norwegian interests. I'll go even further. The EEA Agreement is undoubtedly crucial for Norway’s prosperity, for Norwegian business, exports, access to knowledge, labour and value creation. The Agreement contributes to the necessary common rules in a number of key policy areas in Europe. Most of the provisions of the EEA Agreement are in line with Norwegian law and are therefore unproblematic. Other regulations have helped to strengthen Norwegian legislation, such as: the protection of employees through transfer of activities, or in the case of a number of other HMS issues in the labour market. Where the EEA Directives have been challenging for Norwegian interests, the active influence and use of our space of action have made it possible for us to continue our policy. Norwegian ownership of power resources, the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee or the recent case of ILO 94 are good examples of that. They show that we have found solutions to concrete problems through active influence. Announcing Norway under the EEA Agreement, cancelling parts of the agreement or inviting it to a full renegotiation due to some directives will undoubtedly have significant negative consequences for Norway and the Norwegian economy. For the Workers' Party, this is completely out of date. The directives most discussed in recent years have a particular impact on the field of work. Because of these directives, some have called for a single exit or renegotiation, despite the fact that no EU directives have, to date, actually changed Norwegian working life in a negative direction. The period of this government has shown that there is a great deal of room within the EEA Agreement to pursue an active employment policy. The years after 2005 show that there is nothing wrong with taking extensive action to improve the quality of work in the context of the agreement. Not only is the scope for action within the agreement large, but EU legislation has also led to better protection and extended rights for Norwegian workers in some areas because it came as a result of a directive. These rights are granted permanent protection because they are Directive-related. That is important, for the Storting cannot only come and adopt provisions which weaken those rights. It is important that, at some point – against assumption – in the future, we should have a Right Party government, which we know just want to weaken many of these rights. Then we have to remember that many of the employment-related directives we at home may not be able to say far enough and have nothing to say for our legislation, have considerably increased the standard for countries in Eastern and Southern Europe. We all deserve to have a common floor of standards in the European market. It helps us to maintain our standards because it reduces the distance between us and other European countries. The Working Time Directive is a good example of this. It is a controversial directive, and it is up to discussion. It sets a maximum working week limit, and it regulates rest periods, night work and holidays – 48 hours of working week, it says in the directive. Then some Member States have negotiated exceptions and reached 60 hours of working week. 48 hours working week or 60 hours working week is nothing to shout for in this room. So what's the point of pulling it up? The point is that if we had not had such a directive, 60 hours of working week or more could be the norm in the majority of EU countries. That is not the reason for the directive. It is an advantage for us that our main trading partners cannot avail themselves of such a ‘competitive advantage’. We are obviously challenged by important parts of our EU system policies. Justice and economic crisis in Europe are strengthening this picture. The challenges of social dumping are definitely not going to be reduced. But taking employment out of the EEA Agreement is not an alternative. Nor will it solve any of the problems in Norwegian working life. On the contrary, labour immigration, the labour force, we need. The solution is to be a driver and to continue on the Labour Party's course, call for agreement and continue to work to ensure that new EU rules do not prevent measures that Norway has introduced or intends to introduce. The dividing lines in Norwegian labour policy are between the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Party and the Right and the Advance Party. We want a decent working life, a fight against social dumping and a strong trade union movement. The right-hand parts want a different course. That is what is the biggest and most acute threat to Norwegian working life, not the EEA or the EU system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1430	The EEA Agreement is, as its name says, an agreement on economic cooperation between Norway and the other EEA countries. The Agreement defines, first and foremost, the rules governing participation in the internal market. The almost 20 years since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement have been the largest economic boom in Norwegian history. Thus, we can conclude that the EEA Agreement has worked as intended. In our cooperation with the rest of Europe, we also have institutions to be more conflict-free in cooperation – the ESA and the EFTA Court. For example, Switzerland has have a different form of association and do not have such institutions. Differences between Switzerland and EU countries can therefore remain unresolved for years. We can therefore conclude that ESA and the EFTA Court also function properly. Free trade is for everyone's benefit. The EEA market with its more than 500 million inhabitants is therefore essential for the Norwegian economy. The EEA Agreement has a price label. It's $14. kr for the period we are now in – 2009–2014 – or 3 billion. kr per year. It's 3 per million of the state budget. Per capita this is NOK 600 per year or less than NOK 2 per day. These figures were numerous, but the figures illustrate that the price of full access to the EU’s 500 million consumers is definitely not deterrent. So a little bit about agricultural products and the EEA Agreement. We refer to Article 19 of the EEA Agreement – for agricultural products has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement – which obliges the parties to develop a less protective trade in agricultural products. That's what this is all about. What some in this room choose to call import protection is the same thing as protectionism, and it is therefore contrary to the intention of the EEA Agreement. So, of course, the progress party is asking for a greater commitment from the government here, but not just that. If inactivity is to be the sole instrument of Norway in this matter, the Government should take an initiative to amend or remove Article 19 of the Agreement. Of course, the progress party will not remove or amend Article 19 but, as long as it applies, it is actually a breach of contract in Norway. You either get to remove Article 19, or you get to follow it. The party of progress will recommend the last and that we introduce free trade for agricultural products. Both referenda on Norwegian membership of the EU in 1972 and 1994 showed that Norwegian voters are divided roughly in the middle. Norway is not a member of the EU, and the Progress Party sees no need to put this matter on the agenda now. The EEA Agreement therefore appears to be an intermediate solution. It defines the economic cooperation that Norway should be part of and respects the majority of the two referenda. Even the two government parties that want to terminate the EEA Agreement want – like us others – a great deal of free trade. However, free trade can only function as intended when it is agreed which rules should apply. To compare: Football would become a completely uninteresting game if each player were to define the rules of the game that apply to each player. The EEA Agreement implies that Norway has to give something to get something. We adopt the rules resulting from the directives. We cannot always get what we want, but we get back in diversity through free access to the EU market. Those who say that Norway can only cancel the EEA Agreement and make free trade agreements with the EU instead ignore the fact that such free trade agreements will necessarily have to be committed. Therefore, in my opinion, such trade agreements would, in confusion, be similar to the EEA Agreement in order to enable both parties to accept them. With regard to the Schengen Agreement, there is a case in point. The principle of free movement across Europe's internal borders is good, but it has therefore had adverse side effects. Something has to be done, but introducing daily passport checks at thousands of border crossings in Europe is probably more expensive than it tastes. Spending money on active crime control and better control at the external borders of Schengen is likely to be more effective. I will come back to this in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1451	The EEA Agreement links Norway to the EU's internal market and forms the very foundation of Norwegian European policy. That's why it's so important, and that's why it creates as much commitment as it does. It affects our everyday lives and is comprehensive enough to have both covers and covers in it. I read this big message with optimistic eyes, as I think it takes care of those who are very much for today's content, but also shows the scope for those who are somewhat more skeptical, precisely in those areas where you are skeptical. Keeping an active European policy at a time when the economic situation for many countries is very demanding means that we need to keep a firm track of our efforts to improve and influence the agreement in order to ensure our access to the European market in the future. It might be wise to think carefully about what we want to improve, and what we want to criticize. At the same time, we must keep the debate going and work to strengthen the agreement for ourselves, but also in solidarity with the rest of the countries that are part of the agreement. The internal market is important for us because it provides important access to a large market for Norwegian export-oriented business. It helps secure our market access, secure our market position and – not least – secure jobs, many of them district jobs. About 80 pst. Norway’s exports go to EU countries. Sweden and Germany are the main importers of Norwegian goods. In this context, I can actually mention that the Business Committee was in Berlin for approx. A month ago. We got a little closer to the situation in Germany. It wasn't very uplifting, but God they were working to tighten up the situation they're facing! We also saw that there were already large differences in gender equality, in getting women into working life and, not least, in terms of the level of pay there versus here and welfare schemes. So you get a slightly different perspective on it when you take a round like that. At a time of crisis among all the unemployed in Europe, I believe that we are best served to bring about peace for improvements rather than uncertainty about this agreement. What this message clearly shows is that the rule of action should be exploited more fully. Yes, we may have been somewhat afraid to knit that knit, but the experience shows that we can use this even more clearly. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that we participate in the discussions and that we actively participate in the processes when new directives are to be introduced. So we have to be in place in advance and put the leads for that type of work. It will also be very important for the whole of the Norwegian working life model and how the debate is related to it. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is a sector in which we can clearly see the benefits of the EEA Agreement. The growth of the fisheries and aquaculture industry in recent years is a good example of why stable framework conditions in our relationship with Norway’s main trading partner – the EU – are crucial for Norwegian business. Although the EEA Agreement has created a stable framework for a competitive industry, it is nevertheless such that our exclusion has cost in terms of loss of market access and lack of predictability for parts of Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industries. This includes, inter alia: that we do not have full access to the market for seafood. This applies to important species such as: salmon, herring, mackerel and shrimp, which are charged customs duties. These fisheries are an important part of our total export to the EU, and here there is a considerable room for doing something about market access. Furthermore, the EU has the opportunity to take advantage of trade measures against Norwegian fish, as we saw when the EU imposed anti-dumping measures on Norwegian salmon. The seafood industry knows very well that there are several things about the EEA Agreement that are not optimal for fish. Even if we are involved in legislative development, we are not at the table when the final decisions are made. Nevertheless, we can state that the main problems we have with the EU are those that are not covered by the EEA Agreement, and not the other way around. The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark was quite critical of what the government did in the fall for agriculture and imports. I really have to say that I don't recognize myself in that description. It almost seems that the representative has been on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1472	It is very transparent that the SV parties and the Central Party have found, through both their national meetings and today’s debate, a kind of market segment that shows that there may be a lot to go into attack on Norway’s sovereignly important and most comprehensive trade agreement, an agreement that has given a continuous growth in Norwegian trade, business, export and economic development since the start of 1994. On the other hand, it may not be so important that a few parties that are not quite close to getting a majority or decisive influence over Norwegian trade policy, believe what they think. But here I do not entirely agree, precisely because these parties have succeeded in one area in particular, and that is that they are helping to pass on Europe's approach to the third cooperation party. They contribute to the passiveisation of the Workers' Party. They do not sufficiently contribute to reforming Norwegian European policies. They contribute to the non-development of information on the EU and the EEA in the necessary direction, to the cessation of necessary coordination of Norwegian European policy and to the Norwegian reduction of European influence. The SV parties and the Centerpartie operate a kind of reverse policy of evidence management. They attack the existing institutions, including the Schengen Agreement. They don't say a single word about consequences. They don't say one word about what are alternatives. So they're going to replace a successful deal with something that they're going to present that's going to be even better. It's usually the way in this world that what's too good to be true, is usually not true either. Thus, a search for Norway will be able to gain benefits that we do not have today with a new agreement with Europe, which is now at the heart of the euro crisis and the financial crisis. Why don't SV and the Center Party point in these areas? Why do they not mention a single example of the sector or area that will help Norway to get out better? A little everyday example: editor Thomas Nilsen of BarentsObserver, perhaps one of our leading Barents experts, comments today on the Sunday national meeting in the Central Party, which will report Norway out of Schengen. At the meeting this line was fully supported by the rapporteur, Mr Hansen, from the Central Party, Mr Sør-Varanger. Thomas Nilsen says: ‘– If Norway withdraws from Schengen, the South Varanger society would disappear overnight from being one of the most international and inclusive municipalities in Norway to become one of the most isolated outposts in Europe. Steps to notify Norway out of Schengen are the least thought-out opinion of a rapporteur in South Varanger over time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1488	The representative Serigstad Valen said that there is no need to raise the EEA agreement to anything metaphysical – something for which there are no alternatives. I agree. There are alternatives, and the best option would be full membership of the main political community in our part of the world, namely the EU. It would give all the benefits of the EEA Agreement, but none of the disadvantages. As the Evening Post, last year the European Commission summarised: ‘The EEA has been a gold commodity for the Norwegian economy, but membership would be even more profitable.’ However, membership of the European Union is not a current issue, and thus the EEA is the best option we have. However, we need to exploit the potential for participation in EU decision-making processes in a much better way than today. A new European strategy must be based on the recognition that EU policies are as much domestic as foreign policy. This must involve early and clear involvement in EU processes. It will require better coordination between departments and stronger political anchoring early in processes. Most of the acts coming from Brussels are not controversial and adopted unanimously by the Stortinget. Only a handful of directives have created a big debate. However, the debates have in common that they come almost several years after the Brussels decisions. It is the result of a reactive and partly passive European policy with limited political presence in Brussels. To illustrate: In 2011, Norwegian State Councils carried out 182 trips abroad, 16 of which went to Brussels. I guess that's what it says. I share the foreign minister's view of the priorities Norway should have in our European policy work. Especially in the environment and climate — and energy, of course — the EU’s choice of ways is very important for Norway, but also in the field of work. In the latter area, the treatment of the social dumping packages, where most of the measures were supported by the Right, shows that there is a large national space for action. It's positive. More knowledge about the EU in the population is also important. The European Survey pointed out that the educational textbooks on the EU ended with the referendum in 1994. Since then, both Norway and the EU have been developing rapidly. It is therefore essential that teachers and students learn more about Norway’s agreements with the EU. Several have raised the issue of the right of reservation. The government has used it once. The battle is about state monopoly on the carrying of window envelopes below 50 grams, which is soon replaced by e-mail. The right considers that the right of reservation should be reserved for more important matters than this, and that European policy must be more about early involvement than saying no to as much as possible, as some parties seem to wish. Svein Roald Hansen is concerned with our remark that the use of the right of reservation should, as far as possible, be clarified with our partners Iceland and Liechtenstein. As long as the reservation also applies to them, this is natural. However, the representative Hansen should notice that we are saying «breed», not «breed». It is strange that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not show the same respect for important allies in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1506	I feel the need to comment on a few of the things that have come up during the debate. Firstly, I would say that one of the things that is widely agreed – there are many things that are widely agreed on – is that it is important to be present in Brussels. It was both the representative of Astrup, the representative of Kristiansen and others inside – Ivar Kristiansen with the addition that our sister parties have passiveized the commitment of the Workers' Party. I feel very little passive in European policy, I spend a significant part of my working time in Brussels, and we already have a strong commitment in many of the areas that have been requested. It was mentioned earlier in the debate on the northern regions. We have worked systematically – both my predecessor and I – to put the northern regions high on the EU agenda, but I believe that we can also rely to a large extent on turning the EU's approach to the northern regions in the right direction. I feel that in the last meetings I had with EU Commissioner Damanaki in Tromsø together with the Minister for Fisheries, in Brussels with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the European Parliament and in the PSC, the Political and Security Committee, i.e. the ongoing level of coordination for foreign policy issues, in which Norway has also participated twice – both with me – about the policy of the North. This is outside the book, it's not a norm that non-member countries let in there. But we have established ourselves in the North Region policy – and this is just one example. We have similar rounds on the Middle East and a number of other questions, and we use – at least from the side of my party – our party relationship very actively. I myself have been on the board for many years for PES, the Party of European Socialists, which is the equivalent of the European People's Party. I believe it is important that we use all possible channels into the EU. We're definitely not passive. Another thing that is requested by several – now also by the representative of Astrup – is that we should clean up the unproblematic issues. That's right, and we've done that with full gravity. I think that in the summer we can bring some good results and accelerate the process on some of the issues that are not a problem, and that then clears up the most important issues. One of the most interesting things that came out of this debate is the proposal of the Progress Party to make agriculture part of the EEA Agreement. It's an interesting innovation. I therefore voted in favour – like some others in the Chamber. One of the reasons why this turned out to be no was, to a large extent, agricultural policy. I would also like to ask the question: do you mean that we should take in agriculture, but not fish? If agriculture and fish are finally included in the EEA, what is the difference between the EEA and membership? That would be just a lack of participation. It is probably difficult for most people to say that the only reason to say no to the EU is that we would then have co-determination. Here we have an innovation in Norwegian European policy: No to the EU, but yes to the EEA with agriculture – a little open about fish. It might be interesting to hear what the other parties, who themselves claim – not us – that they should form government together, think about that idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1519	In today's class struggle, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the right side represents a policy that will make it a supporter of EU policy, i.e. that you are following and being guided. What's interesting about today's debate is that the Right goes beyond that and surpasses the polemic characteristics of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Because in his post, the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark said that – and that is a term I have heard used earlier – the EEA Agreement is Norway's lifeline. The Norwegian dictionary defines lifeline as a lifeline tied to life. If that is the approach, it explains part of the Right’s contributions to today’s debate and the Right’s view in the debate on the EEA Agreement and EU membership. Skovholt Gitmark said in the previous discussion we had about this earlier this winter, that the government is unmanageable as a result of the different views of the government parties on EU membership and on the EEA Agreement. I'd say it's the opposite. Neither the effort on a differentiated employer's fee, the right to return, the postal directive or the rules on safety on Norwegian pedestal indicate a lack of passivity. It suggests on the contrary that the red-green government has taken, because of its active debate on Europe, and that I doubt that a right-wing government would dare to take. You don't take up the fight with those who keep your lifeline. If you look at the EEA as a lifeline, a breathing machine or some kind of intravenous food, it explains why the Right will not answer any very simple questions about which fights they are willing to take if they are to rule. That is why, during this debate, I have still not heard anyone from the Right take the floor and answer yes or no, to a very simple question, and I would very much like them to do so: Will the Right, like the Red-Green Government, state that our ILO obligations should outweigh EU obligations? It shouldn't be very difficult to answer, I think. I have until now suspected that the Right will not respond to this because they do not think it is as important as what we red-green do, to defend employee rights and obligations in the ILO. But the view of the EEA Agreement as something passive, as a lifeline that we should be grateful for keeping ourselves alive, can help to explain why the Right is silent about what political struggles they are going to use their active European exposure to, if they are going to come to power.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1528	As regards the foreign minister’s question about the attitude of the Progress Party to the EEA Agreement, agricultural products and fish, it is to say that the Progress Party is ideologically anchored in liberalism. It implies that free trade is an extremely important instrument, both in the interests of consumers and in the interests of cooperation and free trade in Europe. Then it's answered. With regard to the Schengen Agreement, I would like – since there have been some misunderstandings here – to quote from page 12 of the Innst. 227 S for 2012–2013, from a special remark that only the Progress Party is behind. The following is to be read: ‘There may therefore be reason to consider a renegotiation of the contract in which the requirements for external border control are tightened. At the same time, it is important to point out that many of the problems that are increasing in Norway can be stopped more effectively with increased police efforts than with border control.’ Then that misunderstanding should be cleared of the way once and for all. I would like to say to those who now call for the reintroduction of passport controls: Norway's external contact area consists of a border of 2,562 km in length. There are 68 cross-border roads from Norway to our two neighbouring countries Finland and Sweden, which are therefore Schengen countries. There are dozens of airports operating in international traffic. There are four cross-border lines. It's under the administration of the Coast Guard 600 ports, and in addition to the 600 ports, it's going to be a little difficult to define, but it's in the order of 10,000 jetties, quays, moles, etc. by which it is possible to moor. We have a coastline that – a little bit depending on how you define it – is about a place between 40,000 and 50,000 kilometers in length. If passport checks are to be introduced, all these must be filled – in order to use a slightly ugly word – by trained police personnel. At least that's how you study this. At all events, how should it be possible to find police resources to carry out regular police work in Norway if, as far as I can understand, several thousand police officers are to sit and browse the passports of people. At least it could be okay if the government could answer whether this is realistic at all, and what the price might be, so that we can put a stop to that discussion as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1542	Now we can well assume that Peter N. Myhre has made it clear that we do not want to introduce border controls within Schengen. What has created the uncertainty – if you read a little more in the comment on the Progress Party – is that it says that at the same time it should be examined to what extent it is possible to reintroduce the border control. It goes down that ‘what disadvantages any reintroduction of border control will have for all lawful and desirable traffic’. So the word "outward border control" has been forgotten. But it might be clear now. Then I have some comments. A lot of people are concerned about getting a living European debate, and I think that's important. But what the opposition has been most concerned about here has been criticising and trying to ridicule a European debate that has been at a couple of party national meetings. It cannot be that we want to have a European debate that we like the content of, but that we should not have a European debate where we disagree with the content – that is not the way it can be. Peter Skovholt Gitmark uses a form of debate where he goes up to this pulpit and says he thinks it is interesting to hear so many red-green politicians mane for government change. I haven't heard a single man who's been manning for government change. What we have said is that it can be thought that the accident could have affected the country that there was a change of government, and then it is not unnatural to ask: What does the Right think about the proposal of the Progress Party to include agriculture in Schengen? So they haven't been willing to answer that. If they don't know what they mean, they might say it. But what remains after this debate is that there is thus a new uncertainty about agricultural policy for a possible government consisting of the Progress Party and the Right. We have the ostetoll and customs protection as a result. It's been there a long time. So now we have uncertainty as to whether it is also a desire to include agriculture in Schengen. So a few words to the representative Karin Woldseth. She mentioned social security exports. There may well be some problems about this that we're going to think about, if, for example. child benefits and cash support shall require residence in Norway. But the basic idea that you in Europe cannot be discriminated against because of nationality, I think is a fantastic idea and a vision that has become a reality. This means that the members of the Advance Party in Spain can go to a doctor and be treated – in the same way as a Spaniard – and let go, for example. self-proprietary. It's also part of this. Finally, Peter N. Myhre has taken the trouble of calculating what he called the price of access to 500 million European countries. consumers: 2 kroner per person per day – if I understood him correctly. There's no price tag on it. The internal market does not have a quota. It's a community where we put our brawls together, and where the contribution we make is voluntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1555	It's interesting to hear that it's a voluntary contribution we make, when it's the subject of tough negotiations, what kind of size it should be on the contribution we then voluntarily make. There is a great deal to be taken into account in Svein Roald Hansen's speeches, and I think it is especially to be criticized for making the position of other parties ridiculous in European political debates. I do not feel that I have done so in any of my articles. But when, on the contrary, we point out that there is disagreement in the government's European policy in the field of customs, national fraud is accused. If it's not an attempt to squander a debate, I don't know what it is. So we've said that we believe that the one-sided customs increase of hundreds of percent on some selected products gives a very unfortunate signal. What's the problem here is not the conversion from a dollar to a percentage to itself, but this huge increase that the government finds absolutely necessary after eight years – because if we can't put 40,000 jobs at risk, as the representative Breck said, while the Foreign Minister and Svein Roald Hansen believe it's a small fillet case. So the government parties should perhaps agree on whether it is important or not to increase customs duties by hundreds of percent on some selected products. Then I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very active in Brussels, and I will give him credit for his commitment to European affairs. The problem in European policy is that the trade union councils in Brussels have too little involvement in the areas of major importance to Norway, but where Brussels lays the framework. That is what we see, among other things. in the attendance statistics for informal ministerial meetings, that Norwegian government councils make very little representation there. It has to change. Then the representative Serigstad Valen has been involved in the ILO Convention. Of course, Norway's obligations to the ILO Convention are also very important and must weigh heavily in any assessment if, in a hypothetical case, there is a conflict between the ILO Convention and the other obligations we have under our agreements with the EU. Of course, it has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis how to deal with it. I believe that we need to use the space for action contained in the agreements we have to promote and actively take care of Norwegian interests and Europe's development in areas such as: climate and energy, and also in the field of working life, but in the first two areas, Norway is also well placed to choose the EU’s road map. Then we have to be early in promoting our views on that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1568	It's been said a lot of interesting things here from the pulpit today. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen attributed the quotation of impotence to Peter Skovholt Gitmark. Well, Peter Skovholt Gitmark often says that it makes a lot of sense, but it was actually Martin Kolberg, former party secretary in the Workers' Party, who went out hard on 27 October last year and said that if the SV and the Central Party's attack on the EEA Agreement did not stop now, it would make the government unmanageable. That's something I share with Martin Kolberg. Otherwise, I think it has been interesting to note that several of the Workers' Party's representatives today have gone out of their way and warned against the policy SV and the Centre's will in terms of the EEA. They have warned against renegotiations, warned against withdrawing parts of the agreement – because it will cause the whole agreement to collapse – and they have also declared a strong and warm defence both because EU labour policy has strengthened the rights of workers, including in Norway, and because – as Jonas Gahr Støre said in a reflection debate a little ago – the 20 years of EEA have been Norway’s 20 best years. It is precisely at the heart of the discussion here: the EEA Agreement has served Norwegian interests and Norwegian values very well. Then there has been a question of including agriculture in the EEA Agreement. The right has not wanted to include agriculture in the EEA Agreement. We haven't suggested that anywhere, and we probably won't propose that either, and that should be known to most people as well. With regard to the discussion on customs increases, the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about: ‘The relatively modest change in customs policy of the government in some specific cheese regions’. So there are hundreds of percent customs increases on some oysters and on some meat products, and former Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck says that without this change, 40,000 jobs will be at risk, and agriculture will be reduced. At some point the government has to decide whether this is big or small, and it has been the trend in this whole discussion: it has communicated both parts, both that this has no meaning whatsoever, and that without it it would have dramatic significance. I repeat what I said in my line exchange with Lars Peder Breck, that if this was so important, it is amazing that the government with a majority behind it in the Storting for almost eight years has not done this before. I responded to the debate on the ILO Convention in the reply of the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, and it has also been repeated by Nikolai Astrup. I would otherwise like to thank you for a good debate, where I also ask the representative Svein Roald Hansen to note what I said in my post: I challenged the government in a number of areas where I think we can become more proactive – not just talk about Norwegian interests and things that go across Norwegian interests, but take a greater responsibility for the whole and development of the continent of which we ourselves are such an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1588	Yes, it's been using relatively harsh words in this kind of debate lately. This also happened when we discussed the EU earlier. At least that reminds me very well. It has been used as a 'double moral' by this pulpit, not by the representatives of the government parties, but by the chairman of the committee. As far as I was aware, it was also about comparison with the Swedish Democrats and xenophobic attitudes. Let me say that I think it's best for all of us that we avoid that kind of debate. What surprises me at least when we talk about Schengen, if we now have different views about it, is that there is no more ongoing discussion about cross-border crime. For it is also a theme in other countries, in Sweden and in several EU countries. In any case, no mention is made on the part of the opposition. Then we have now received an answer to what the Right believes about agriculture into the EEA Agreement. I think it was good that was underlined. At the same time, we have not received a reply from the Right on whether it is considered that reduced customs protection would threaten Norwegian agriculture or Norwegian jobs in the food industry. For there is a reduction in customs protection Right-wing representative Ine M. Eriksen Soreide has talked about when she in the European Parliament has said that the Right will reverse the cheese duty change. So to the representative Myhre, who says that this change regarding Article 19 is a breach of contract. Let me say that it's wrong – I'm not going to use stronger words for it, because I don't want to risk being clubbed down. But the whole point is that we have just renewed the Article 19 agreement. It has been negotiated with the EU, there is agreement with the EU on Article 19 of the Agreement. The point, but perhaps not noticed by the representative of the Progress Party, is that the Article 19 Agreement should also reflect the agricultural policy of the respective parties. This means taking account of the EU's agricultural policy and taking into account the Norwegian agricultural policy. It also says that one should have the intention of opening up and liberalising trade. But that's the jam I've done. EU exports to Norway in the field of food have increased enormously in recent years, while Norwegian exports have changed considerably. So the representative Ivar Kristiansen talked about some things that we didn't deal with in the EEA Agreement. But what I experience is that – apart from the representative Astrup – one does not at all talk about the democratic deficit that Astrup has said he agrees with. There is nothing to be said about it by the representatives of the Right in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1602	I would like to mention a few points at the end of a good and important debate, which, in spite of persistent attempts to create disagreements, really brings out that there is a fundamental consensus on very many key issues. Firstly, I would like to say to the representatives of Astrup and Skovholt Gitmark regarding participation in Brussels: I believe that we will be even more pleasant to participate at the level of the trade union council in Brussels. Because we're now at about the same level as the Bondevik II government. That's why there's room for improvement. We have set in motion an effort to be even better at attending the number of meetings, because it is important to point out, as it says in the communication, that we must be politically present where decisions are taken, both in Brussels and in the informal ministerial meetings, which, as you know, are not normally taking place in Brussels, but in the Presidency country. So we've been in the EEA for 19 good years. For eight — almost half of the 19 years — there has been a red-green government. Integration between Norway and the EU has only been strengthened during that period. So we don't need to warn against some kind of other policy that could come out of a new Stoltenberg government. My point has been to confirm what we have achieved, and what we agree on as a basis for further cooperation in the Stoltenberg II government, after we have been re-elected for the autumn. It is based on the EEA Agreement, Schengen and the other agreements. There's no news that different parties have different basic views about it. Once again, we have been confirmed that also applies in the opposition. Some of the clarifications that this debate has led to are good. The fact that the Progress Party wants to work to get agriculture into the EEA is very interesting. We still don't know if they think we should refrain from taking fishing into the EEA at the same time. Peter N. Myhre replied to refer to free trade, but the EEA is much more than free trade. The EEA is just a type of integration that goes far beyond the general product turnover. So we really don't have an answer to that. It'll be fun to volunteer to include the area where we have defensive interests, without at the same time including the area where we have offensive interests. Why is it said in about the same spirit as saying that you are against the EU? It seems a little illogical. Then we know that there is disagreement between the Right and the Advance Party about it. It's also good for the voters to know. Finally, last words about the ostetoll. So it's not going to break Article 19. Article 19 states that, within the respective agricultural policies of the respective parties, the intention is to work towards liberalisation. We have. The current Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck was involved in this work. Article 19 cannot be seen in relation to individual decisions. I'm saying it's a message. There's not a modest increase in customs duties on the six toll lines, but there's six out of one to 100 toll lines. It is a modest change in Norwegian agricultural policy, and it is based on the same basis as the EU has, namely import protection plus subsidies. We're on it, they're on it. We're allowed to do that, and we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1615	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1618	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has just confirmed the wording: a small amount of money can be lost. Because if a message of change could jeopardize 40000 jobs, there is reason to be very concerned. To the representative Breck, I can say that the quotation on the Swedish Democrats, mentioned earlier, was a quote from the Central Party's sister party and their representative at the Central Party's national meeting, and not an expression of positions that some from the Right have on the Central Party's policy. So the Foreign Minister said that we have tried to create disagreement in this room today. I believe that the task of this room is just to discuss what we disagree about. If we were to spend all these hours discussing what we agree on, it would be a little fruitful and not bring the debate any further. I believe that the debate has been clarifying and good. Unfortunately, there are not so many of us who agree that we should take the step even further and go for full membership of the main political community in our part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1627	The representative Peter N. Myhre has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1630	Thank you very much. I asked for a brief comment on the occasion of the last speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If he reads through the debate after it is available in writing, he will see that I said that fisheries and agriculture will be more subject to free trade in our agreement with the European Union. I have to say, agricultural products are already part of the EEA Agreement. So it says Article 19, as there is a great deal of disagreement in this Chamber about how to understand. However, Article 19 unequivocally states that the parties, i.e. Norway and the EU, commit themselves to more extensive free trade in agricultural products. But it's obviously a paragraph that not very many of the red-green politicians have read.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1637	The representative Lars Peder Breck has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1640	Finally, I would also like to make a brief comment. Nikolai Astrup explained it with the Swedish Democrats and xenophobia, and that it does not come from the Right. That's good. It's equal error anyway -- let me just underline it. What's the starting point for the Center Party is that we have to take care of the Norwegian to be international. We need to be sure of our own identity in order to meet the challenges beyond the borders of the country. Let me put it this way: Some of the intentions of the Central Party national meeting decisions can be said to be correct in line with the spirit of EU skeptic Margaret Thatcher.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1647	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1653	The size is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1663	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1671	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-09.ana.ud793e1922	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
