ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e32	The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Heidi Ørnlo, has now taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative Borghild Tende on welfare leave from 23 May to 31 May from the Group of the Party of Presidents on the leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth on 23 and 24 May to attend the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Tallinn. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Akershud County, Inge Hallgeir Solli, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Borghild Tenden, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Inger Johanne Bjørnstad 23-30. May For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland May 23, 2013
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e77	Inger Johanne Bjørnstad and Torkil Åmland are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e91	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and will be divided into groups as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e100	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. The EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of Norway’s relationship with Europe, both for enterprises, for jobs and for students, as an example. At a time when new countries and regions are emerging as power factors, it is also a reminder that it is actually Europe that is our continent and our sovereign main trading partner, who receives nearly 80 pst. of our exports. European policy is domestic policy. Not only is it a general trend that the distinction between domestic and foreign is emerging, but it is particularly relevant for European policy, which then until those degrees are relevant to Norway. The EEA Agreement has proved to be dynamic and with a significant unused space for action. Through the agreement, we are, in line with the EU countries, part of the internal market in Europe. Cooperation in areas such as energy, environment, justice, security, education and research, areas that become more important to us in the time that comes, accelerates, and we need to make our voice heard earlier and more effective. Right wants closer contact with the EU in order to change or achieve the best possible adaptation of the legislation and in order to avoid unnecessary confrontations. We are in a mildly challenging situation in Europe with mass unemployment among young people in particular, a generation that loses hope for the future and ground for extremism and hatred. President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, spoke about this yesterday. He said, Our main task is to ensure that young people have a future in Europe. It is very important that we provide ourselves to help Europe, our continent, remain a place of peace, freedom, stability, tolerance and respect for human rights. Our close story shows us that it's not a matter of course if we don't work for it every day. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned Norwegian participation in EU programmes and how our participation in the various programmes enables us to form the basis for policy development in Europe. We should like to see a broader explanation of our participation in these programmes because it forms our main permanent contact area with Europe. Of course, the participation in Horizon 2020, the new Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, is of particular importance. It is also a framework programme in which Norway has participated as a full member since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. If Norway decides to stand outside, there may be considerable consequences, and not least Norway will have status as a third country. I want to pick up the thread where the Foreign Minister concluded his statement: the question of what kind of EU we are going to meet in a few years, when the crisis is over, and how we deal with it. The right is that the EU comes out of the crisis, just as previous crises have been generators for the development of the EU. The crisis will increase the breadth and pace of the integration process, but the focus of policy development shifts towards arenas where we have few or no formal influence channels. A very likely scenario is an EU in which euro area countries are increasingly at the heart of both integration and policy development, and lead. I share the Foreign Minister's assessment of the need to strengthen European policy dialogue with key countries in Europe. He specifically mentions Nordic countries and Germany, which I fully support. Germany is becoming more and more a European architect. Poland is also a country of great importance; it is a new, heavy player in the EU. Of the Nordic countries, Finland has a particularly interesting feature, namely that it is the only Nordic country in the euro group and will thus increasingly be part of this inner core. The point is that European issues are often not a priority in the bilateral dialogue with important Member States, and we are likely to miss out on an important area of change. In this new, more closely integrated and more complex EU, where ‘the development of EU cooperation is increasingly taking place elsewhere than in the institutions to which Norway is linked through the EEA Agreement’ – it is from the Minister of Foreign Affairs’s statement – Norway must be present in the areas where we have access. It's important to claim Norwegian interests, and it's important to participate in the development of our own continent. Norway has a role to play in the development of Community solutions. There are meetings in the EU all the time, and Norwegian state councils and state secretaries are, of course, taking part in many of them. The picture is not that Norwegian Governments do not attend meetings of the EU, but the informal ministerial meetings held every six months in the Presidency and bringing together trade ministers in different fields are special in the sense that they gather colleagues from all 27 Member States and provide a unique opportunity to follow up contacts, to promote Norwegian views and interests in a wider context, and, in particular, to open doors to other areas. They are policy workshops that preside over legislation — which will also include Norway — designed. As long as we do not participate in the formal legislative process because we are not an EU member, this arena is very important. Taking advantage of the space of action is to a large extent about the presence right here. Instead, systematically absent from the meetings we are invited to at the level of the Council of State is not taking advantage of the space for action. This half-year, during the Irish Presidency, Norway has been invited to seven informal ministerial meetings. We have attended half of the seven informal ministerial meetings with the Council of State. As demonstrated by the European Commission, with statistics back to 2007, this is a model for government. In total, then, there is a participation at the level of the Council of State in these meetings of about 40 p.m. So the challenge is that it hasn't improved, despite repeated points from the Right and from other parties, and it hasn't improved despite repeated insurance from the government for improvements. It's gotten worse on the contrary. Of course, it is becoming increasingly difficult for Norway as a foreigner to get an invitation to this type of meeting. It's far from being obvious that we're going to be invited. It is said that interest has to be expressed in order to be interesting, and the statistics from the European Survey also show that there appears to be more systemic absenteeism from the Central Party and SV Councils. As I said, this attendance pattern is unfortunately not unique to the Irish Presidency. We have pointed this out several times in the European Committee of the Regions, no later than now on 2 May, and in debates like this, which we have every six months. As late as the previous European Committee meeting in May, the Minister for Foreign Affairs answered the following questions about just this: ‘But, to put it this way, I would like to join the intention of the question, namely that, as far as possible, we – and that is really the most important thing – shall participate at the level of the Council of State at these meetings.’ Of course, participation in informal ministerial meetings is not always good here and now, but participation is long-term, and continuity is a key word. The meetings give us a unique opportunity to gather information on issues, who are and can be potentially important allies for Norway, and in certain cases connect networks that allow the day it comes to a matter that is particularly important for Norway, we have an ally sitting at the table where the decision is taken. I noticed that the Foreign Minister on the radio this morning was humming the importance of these meetings. Well, then it's strange that the European Union delegation in Brussels, our embassies who are holding it at all times, and the U.D. at home are laying down such considerable resources to provide Norway with invitations to these meetings. Of course, they wouldn't if the meetings weren't important. In his comments on radio this morning, the foreign minister also thought it was okay to send state secretaries. Yes, it might be good to send state secretaries as long as you're represented at political level. Large countries — such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom — can afford to send state secretaries, precisely because they also attend formal ministerial meetings. They meet and participate in many arenas. For Norway, informal ministerial meetings are the only arena and therefore so important. Governments have the opportunity to discuss policies that are of major importance to Norway. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs frequently used the word actively about Norway's European policy, and I noticed that it moved a little extra in some Central Party and SV representatives each time he put the word into action. But it is not enough to talk about an active European policy. The government must demonstrate in action that it uses the space for action that is, exploits the opportunities that exist, and thus contributes to the promotion of both Norwegian and European interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e139	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a broad and thorough presentation. We now have our own assessment of the EEA Agreement after almost 20 years, and we have the EU assessment. We are satisfied, and the European Union is satisfied. The EEA Agreement has worked as it should, i.e. to integrate important trading partners into the internal market without becoming EU members. An agreement concluded between 12 EU countries and 6 EFTA countries also works the same for 27 EU countries and 3 EFTA countries. The agreement has thus been able to capture developments in EU cooperation that have been more dynamic than anyone could believe in in 1992. The EEA Agreement ensures our financial interests through participation in the internal market. It's not just giving market access. It provides rights and security for fair competition. There will be no free trade agreement in the same way. We and the EU also largely share the view of what are the challenges of cooperation between Member States and countries that will participate, but not be a member. One challenge is to ensure that legislation is introduced in EFTA countries as quickly as possible, so that legislation is consistent. Nobody's earned that the code is different because someone's having sex. I refer to ESA's 2012 Annual Report, which points out that last year ESA opened nearly three hundred new internal market cases due to a lack of national implementation. In the preamble to the Annual Report, the ESA President says: ‘The three hundred cases relate largely to technical legislation, but there is no excuse for EFTA countries to establish more robust administrative procedures and have greater respect for the deadlines in the EEA.’ Of course, this is not the case in Norway. It rests on three countries. But the sails have to be reefed in order to speed up. It must not just be a ship's roof. It has to be normal. Another challenge is that the EU is increasingly empowering agencies. It challenges the provisions of the Constitution not to transfer powers to international bodies of which we are not a member. EU financial supervision, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is the last challenge in this way. I would like to repeat what I said in the debate on the European Communication. We need to find an institutional solution in line with the two-pillar system of the EEA Agreement. The most nearby solution I think is to use ESA. ESA has been shown to fulfil its task in a way that neither the EU nor EFTA has had any reason to complain. A third challenge for the EEA Agreement is that the pillars of EU cooperation are gone. This, together with the increasing tendency of the EU to make overall and cross-cutting policies, creates confusion as to what is EEA-relevant and not. It concerns maritime and coastal strategy, transport and climate policy. One of the latest examples is the 2030 Green Paper on climate and energy policy. These documents draw up policy objectives. Once they have been adopted, action plans and measures will come into effect in regulations or directives. The EEA Agreement does not oblige us to share the EU's policy objectives. Nor has it been given that action plans and actions are EEA-relevant. Nevertheless, regulations and directives may be relevant because they also affect trade, free movement or competition law. In short, it has become more demanding to know what falls within and what falls outside the EEA Agreement. The assessment of the EEA Agreement by the EEA Service states that legislation has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement which the EU initially did not consider to be EEA-relevant. A good start would be a debate on the Green Paper on energy and climate by 2030 – in the European Committee or here in plenary. Another important issue is the EU’s Blue Belt plans – a concept for more efficient maritime transport of goods between EU ports. This is part of the Internal Market Action Plan and therefore interesting and relevant to us. At the same time, there may be many challenges associated with these measures. We should therefore engage early in following the process in the EU on these issues and debate new measures as early as possible, so that the Storting is also involved. In the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee, we will have discussions with our partners in the European Parliament on both of these issues at our meetings in spring. I think it is important that we pay more attention to this issue. It is in our interest as well as in the EU to protect the integrity of the EEA Agreement. What is inside, and what is outside, should as far as possible be based on a technical and legal assessment — not a political one. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also invites the Stortinget to participate in the debate on our positions as early as possible. The debate on how to deal with general and cross-cutting Green Papers is a strong candidate for such early involvement. It can happen in different ways. This is the most profound of all about the further integration into the internal market and cooperation in areas that support this core. Research cooperation, education programmes, gender equality policy and family policy are important elements of a social model that is productive and flexible. Cooperation in this area is therefore important in order to achieve overall objectives such as creating economic growth and combating unemployment. However, policy objectives and instruments in these areas are not part of the EEA Agreement in the sense that they bind us, as regulations and directives do with regard to the internal market. Therefore, we should pay more attention to new green papers and white papers and blue books and what they are now called, discuss them and consider what might be EEA-relevant and what is not. We would like to share the policy objectives of reducing climate emissions, improving the rail system and getting more goods across from road to road and cooling. However, this does not mean that we need to adopt instruments to achieve the objectives, unless they are clearly within the scope of the EEA Agreement. The international financial crisis has hit many of our European neighbours hard. But the crisis has also revealed underlying problems in several countries: weak governance, corruption, too weak tax systems and lack of political will to pay for the well-being adopted. It's a national responsibility. Every day has become brutal too many. It's 26 million unemployed. In several countries, half of the youth schools have no job prospects after education. This, of course, weakens the confidence of politicians and politics. It can also give surprising and strange results. On Iceland, the voters returned to the parties that drove the country by the sea, and turned their backs on the parties that dragged them into dry land. In other countries, the situation gives ground to extremism and nationalism. It's a warning. It's urgent to create hope that the worst is behind us. The debt crisis cannot be resolved unilaterally by austerity policies — nor are the unemployment problems. It's no longer useful to have a one-sided focus on savings. I would like to support the Minister of Foreign Affairs in that we should work to increase the proportion of EEA funds allocated to targeted action for space people – preferably during this programme period, whose funds and agreements open it up. A priority should also be given to the next programming period. The Treaty of Lisbon also provides for closer cooperation between the European Parliament and national parliaments – not only through the half-yearly COSAC meetings, but also through meetings between the European Parliament and national parliaments on concrete issues or policy areas. Not least thanks to the active efforts of the staff of the Stortinget in Brussels, we have managed to be invited to these meetings. It is equally important that we then follow up and participate, so it is important that the government participates in meetings where they can in Brussels. The last contribution to this cooperation is the establishment of such a joint parliamentary conference for Europol. Here we must work actively to make Norway and the other EFTA countries involved in this cooperation an observer. It is necessary if the Stortinget is to control the government in the field of justice. When a part of justice policy is implemented through Europol in Brussels, it is also important that we have access to it. I hope that we can jointly convince those who decide it in the European Parliament and in the Commission that it is natural that Norway and the other EFTA countries participating in Europol should also participate in this parliamentary cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e199	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough presentation on important European policy issues. The Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined the main principle of the EEA Agreement, namely a common regulatory framework for the internal market. Norway is perhaps the country in Europe most dependent on free trade between countries. Free trade is for the benefit of everyone, and the EEA market with its more than 500 million inhabitants is essential for the Norwegian economy. The EEA Agreement has a price label. It's $14. kr for the period we are now in, 2009–2014, or approx. Three billion. kr per year. It's 3 per million of the state budget. Per capita this is NOK 600, or less than NOK 2 per day. There were many numbers, but the figures illustrate that the price of full access to the EU's 500 million consumers is not deterrent, but I will come back to this. In addition to having access to the EU market, we are committed to complying with this common legislation referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. International trade legislation is not unique to the EEA Agreement. For those who believe that common legislation is a coercion, the advantage is that our trading partners in the EEA area are also subject to the same legislation. It provides predictability and prevents governments from introducing arbitrary, unpredicted protectionist measures, with the uncertainty of the Norwegian export industry if such legislation did not exist. The economic downturn in the EU puts pressure on the European organisational model. Deficits in government accounts, galloping debt developments and increasing unemployment lead to the reorganisation of public services, constant crisis meetings in governments, social unrest and the collapse of entire national states. These problems are not caused by the EU or by the common legislation. Nor is it due to the single currency, the euro. Rather, the reason is probably because of a state over-consumption over a long period of time, and it is due to a lack of ability to comply with the legislation we are talking about. To give some examples, Greece and Austria have both had the euro, and they are very similar in size and population. Greece is perhaps the most in crisis country by all, while Austria has not only done well, but now has lower unemployment than they had in 2008. Two countries that are also comparable in size and population but have retained their national currencies are the Czech Republic and Hungary. Hungary is in a deep economic and political crisis, while the Czech Republic has done quite well. It is mainly the crisis-affecting countries that need to find their way out of the problems themselves. So-called crisis loans do not solve anything in the long term. It has to be cleaned up in the state economy and administration in order to balance the economy and to make each Member State the best possible functioning within the common rules in force. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also pointed out that the conclusions of the two major messages we have received during the last two major periods of European policy must form the basis for the EEA government's work. On the part of the Progress Party, we have clarified this earlier, but I would like to repeat it here: the Progress Party believes Norwegian membership of the EU is currently totally out of date. Therefore, as the government – at least as the leading government party believes – the EEA Agreement is to be Norway's form of association with the EU and the bearer of Norway's economic relationship with Europe in the foreseeable future. The votes of these two parties alone in the Stortinget government provide a solid back cover for this strategy, the EEA strategy, and for the use and exploitation of the space provided by the EEA Agreement. The Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to Norway’s ‘harvest recognition’ of its financial contributions through the EEA funds and its large contributions to the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. It might be time to look at the sum of these two. If we make a small reduction of the grants, for example: To the IMF, this may lead to our no longer reaping recognition, but to the EU, for example. only is satisfied with our efforts. It would still be to live with. We don't always have to be the most generous of all. It is not a goal in itself to give away the most of Norwegian taxpayers’ money. With regard to the EU rail package IV and the possibilities it offers to create competition for train passengers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed strong doubts. For the Progress Party, I will only give full support to the government if the government follows the EU's rules of competition. The Labour Party was previously strongly opposed to giving NRK, Telewerket, Statkraft and Posten competition. Nevertheless, these monopolies are wholly or partly liquidated. Now the resistance of the Workers' Party has ceased. Competition offers a better offer, so will competition in railway operations. Let me also refer to Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, which states that Norway and the EU should continue their efforts to gradually liberalise trade in agricultural products. In the case of the dramatic increase in Norwegian customs duties on cheeses from the EU, the EU has decided not to allow this matter to have consequences in the form of countermeasures. We're gonna be happy for that. The European Parliament’s largest delegation for contact with the European Parliament met with the European Parliament on 21 February last year and on 26 March this year. Both times the EU team expressed strong dissatisfaction with the progress made in liberalising trade in agricultural products. They called for more regularity in meetings of expert groups and faster progress. Norway is a country that is particularly dependent on exporting goods that we produce a lot of, so we can import what we don't have enough of ourselves. Free trade in Europe is a prerequisite for Norwegian welfare and prosperity. Now it is enough that there were many in the EU bodies who understood that the Easter Customs case was an act by the Workers' Party to satisfy their small junior partner, the Senter Party. But there's reason to warn the government against experimenting with this. If a new stunt of this type were to be met with countermeasures from the EU, it would initially undermine the EEA Agreement, but in a wider sense create problems for the Norwegian export industry and jeopardize Norwegian jobs. Norway is doing quite well, largely thanks to the enormous revenues generated by the oil and gas industry. Without them, it would be much more difficult to maintain the Norwegian model of society, the transmission economy, our well-being and prosperity. Hundreds of billions that flow in each year make it comfortable to be Norwegian government. But this doesn't come of itself, and it doesn't last forever. Norway is vulnerable if EU countries demand for Norwegian export products such as oil, gas, technology and fish decreases or if the market price of these products should fall. We have to take this seriously. Now is the time to use our economic strength to invest in the future, build infrastructure and make Norway robust to tackle changing framework conditions for our current export industries, so that we can develop new export and income opportunities for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e240	I have 5 measured minutes, and not 30 hours, as other SVs now have a day. The five minutes I want to use to talk about the space people. For the situation of the Roma, the biggest single social problem in Europe has now been in several generations. Discrimination and persecution have kept them away from the society and social benefits that the rest of the population in Europe have developed. Despite the crisis that we have discussed so much here in the Chamber, which throws millions of people into unemployment and social distress, the situation for space people remains the greatest social challenge for Europe. It is then important to realise that this is not a small minority. In the EU, only every six rooms have schooling in addition to primary school. Half of them do not have access to water toilet, shower or stream. 90 pst. lives below the official poverty limits – 90 p.m.Oh, my God! It is apparent from a major study carried out recently by the UNDP and the World Bank. In all the 11 EU countries in the survey, at least 80 pst live. by the space people of households whose income is less than 60 pst. of the median income in the country. That's almost 100 pst. in France, Italy and Portugal, where the median income is higher than in the east of the EU. In France, Italy and Portugal, only a tenth of people aged between 20 and 64 are in paid employment — only a tenth! Discrimination is very widespread. It is the largest in Italy and the Czech Republic, and not least in Bulgaria and Romania. The total space population in Europe is 10-12 million if we include countries outside the EU. In Romania, the figure is approx. 9 pst. of the population rum, in Bulgaria 10 pst., in Slovakia 9 pst., in Hungary 7 pst. and in the Czech Republic 2 pst. In many of these countries, it is a well-known election campaign exercise to spread hateful opinions about this minority. The Director of the EU Centre for Human Rights concludes the study I referred to – UNDP and the World Bank – in this way: ‘Exclusion patterns are the same in all EU countries, and have a level that does not tolerate any excuse to make rapid and effective action to improve the situation.’ The integration of space people requires local communities to be involved, so that both space and non-space people can build the trust and social cohesion needed to combat prejudice and discrimination — that is, to start at the opposite end of what many politicians have done here in Norway, with prejudiced statements and strong generalisations. The social crisis of many people living in space is primarily a problem for these people – not for us, because it's embarrassing. It should be completely unnecessary to remember. So what can we do with this? It's no small problem, and it's not done in a hand turn. In the EU and EEA, we are facing a cross-border problem. This challenge can only be solved through cross-border political cooperation that is comprehensive enough in relation to the fundamental problems we face. There are social problems that we're talking about, and then there's a lot that needs to be done, beyond short-term emergency solutions like toilets and showers. Families need to be motivated to teach young people, and adults need to obtain vocational and other necessary training so that they can have the hope of finding a place in the ordinary working life. One of the prerequisites is that there are housing that allows families to stay long enough to make schooling and working life realistic. None of this will happen unless the space people themselves are the central cooperation and interlocutory partner of governments, politicians and non-governmental organisations. So what should Norway do? Well, I think in the next debate we have in Stortinget, we've already started. What about us, for example. with our Nordic neighbouring countries, taking the initiative of a larger European initiative to lift out of poverty space people – a long-term commitment from a ten- or fifteen-year perspective? By virtue of the EEA Agreement, Norway is transferring 30 million. EUR to Romania but only 10 pst. of which action is taken by spacemen. The use of EEA funds is determined by means of bilateral negotiations, so I – therefore SV believes – believe that Norway should negotiate with Romania and other EU countries with a large space population, with a view to ensuring that a much higher proportion of these funds go to lifting this marginalised and shamefully displaced population out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e267	Initially, I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation on the EU and EEA matters. One of the important issues raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that, with effect from 1 January 2011, the EU has established a new supervisory structure in the field of financial markets. The aim is to strengthen the supervision of the financial sector in Europe, which I think everyone thinks is necessary, in the light of the current crisis in many countries. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway becomes part of this system. The new supervisory authorities may impose binding obligations on national authorities and market actors. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that this raises fundamental questions related to the Constitution and the typilar structure of the EEA Agreement. He emphasizes, as is right, that the solution must be found within our constitutional framework. The issue of the issuing of sovereignty to the EU and the EEA bodies is a growing issue facing Norway. Financial supervision and air traffic control, etc. are examples of a development that we will certainly see more of in the future. It challenges the right of self-determination, and it challenges not least how we deal with such matters in this room. There is no doubt about the views of the Central Party on the EU and the EEA. The centre party is concerned about the Norwegian right of self-determination. Bit-by-bit gives national power to international bodies. Eirik Holmøyvik, first amanuensis of the University of Bergen, has, in an article that has recently been mentioned in several media, pointed out Stortingen's practice that decisions on the waiver of sovereignty are taken under the Constitution § 26, which requires a majority of two-thirds, and not under § 93, which requires a majority of three-quarters. Holmøyvik points to that: ‘The intensification of the plural requirement is intended to give specific democratic legitimacy to decisions of principle and political seriousness.’ The international legal order aims to find solutions that balance the interests of many countries. If in such a context we find that it is right to set aside national interests, this is both constitutional and political a serious act that I believe there should be a high threshold for and broad agreement on. Let me underline this: I think we need a little bit more national self-confidence. Laws and regulations are not improved by their being determined in Brussels, Strasbourg or New York. The waiver of sovereignty is not just about giving the EU more power in Norway. In my view, it is necessary that Norway has a fundamental critical position to transfer sovereignty to international organisations in our foreign policy. It may appear that developments in international cooperation are moving towards the need for national states to transfer more power and powers to international bodies. I think we should be aware of this issue, and we must constantly question whether this is right and necessary. Nevertheless, there should be no doubt that we need a regulated world order and that there must be long-term and predictable rules for relations between countries. Let me stress that there is a broad consensus that Norway should participate in such cooperation, and that a conservative approach to relinquishing sovereignty is not an expression of our not taking part in the international challenges, for example. related to climate noise or other major international challenges. As I said, the position of the centre party towards the EU and the EEA is well known. Let me repeat that we stand by our agreements. We are ruling on the basis of the EEA Agreement, still NATO membership, and Norway is not going to become a member of the EU. The willingness to use the national space for action within the EEA Agreement is a particularly important measure to safeguard Norwegian interests and Norwegian right of access. Let me say that we are not afraid of the concept of activity, as the chairman of the Committee, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, suggests in his statement. These include: The Swedish Government’s and the Central Party’s profits put a greater focus on exploiting the EEA Agreement’s space for action. Despite the beautiful words, the right has, I know, never challenged the EU or the EEA Agreement. In that farm you stand with lua in your hand, cf. The customs business, which we've discussed many, many times in this room. An important issue that I will mention in the end is the use of EEA funds. The question has been how these can be more targeted against poverty reduction, so that one can help people in their country of origin and thus perhaps also limit the flow of poor people to Norway. In the light of the economic crisis in Europe, it is our objective that the agreements we make with the EU on the facility of EEA funds should contribute more to social and economic development. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated that there should be an objective in the further work on the EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e296	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. It provided interesting updates on our EEA cooperation and current challenges facing the EU. In the Christian People's Party, we share the conclusion that the EEA Agreement has served Norway very well in the 19 years it has been in force. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated, the EEA Agreement has proved to be robust. Many had long been willing to do so, but the EEA Agreement has proved to be a solid platform for our cooperation with EU countries. It is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs now makes this clear; that is the way it is. Through the EEA Agreement, we are involved in that part of EU cooperation that works best in many ways: the internal market. Since the beginning of 1992, the internal market has created jobs, contributed to the creation of value added and contributed to cohesion between countries, peace and stability. The parts not covered by the EEA Agreement, such as the EU's agricultural policy, fisheries policy and rural policy and euro-cooperation, cannot refer to the same good results in terms of generating growth. Nor is EU fisheries policy good for the marine environment, because there is significant overfishing. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can show that the dialogue with the EU on Arctic issues has contributed to the development of the EU’s vision in a positive direction. Of course, EEA cooperation is not without challenges. From our point of view, we've always been clear about it. No form of connection has only advantages. In recent years, we have seen that the free movement of labour on which both the EU and the EEA are based can present challenges for a welfare society as developed as Norway. Then I think, among other things. on exports of social security benefits. Let me do an example. Poles who have worked in Norway can travel back to Poland and live well with Norwegian unemployment benefits there. I see that the government will address this problem. It is considered to introduce new requirements for beneficiaries of unemployment benefits, so that they have to meet regularly at the Nav Office in order to have the money paid. These requirements must, of course, apply to all unemployed people, since we cannot discriminate in terms of nationality within the EEA territory. The euro crisis is Europe's biggest crisis since World War II. In Spain, there is one in four without a job, in Greece one in five. Almost every other youth in these countries is unemployed. Many youths lose faith in the future. It is a human tragedy, but it also creates political risk. There are several reasons for the euro crisis. One of them is the weaknesses of eurocooperation itself. It has both contributed to the crisis and made it more difficult to get out of it. Through the EEA funds, Norway transfers large amounts to the more disadvantaged EU countries. I suppose I can also join in what Snorre Serigstad Valen said, that one should start the negotiations with a greater share of these funds going to the space people. This is international solidarity in practice. In the revised national budget, the government presented a package of measures for beggars. The first point in that was that 300 million. kr shall be used for the benefit of disadvantaged space people in EU countries until 2016. Some thought there were new promises, new proposals for funding. The Minister of Foreign Affairs confirmed that this is only a reference to agreements concluded for the longest period of the agreement which began in 2009. The Christian People’s Party believes that this is well spent money. Measures taken in the countries of origin of the Roma may have a multiple effect in relation to whether the same money was spent on travellers here in the high-cost country of Norway. In addition, the EEA funds can be facilitated to save the next generation from an unworthy life as beggars. An important explanation of the legacy of poverty and beggarhood is that the journey leads to children being torn out of school. In this way, they are deprived of training and qualification for permanent work. We know the path out of poverty from our own country; it's education and work for everyone. Norway is a privileged nation. We must show solidarity with a Europe of problems. The EEA funds are a practical expression of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e328	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement, which I must say is that I see a little more as a technical review than the previous one. But it may well have something to do with the fact that we have had many EU and EEA debates in the main hall in the last six months. I would like to link some comments to some of the areas affected. If we look at the domestic debate on Roma people, I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs affected the use of EEA funds for that group in his presentation. I have previously challenged the Minister for Foreign Affairs on EEA funds for, among others. Romania, that they actually reach the vulnerable groups and minorities. We need to make sure that the money actually comes out, despite the challenges of corruption in some of these countries. I hope the Foreign Minister will be able to assure us that there is good control over these funds coming out, and that this is still in place. I would also like to stress that it makes sense to use EEA funds during the current period for increased space use, but I believe that we need to assess whether we should have our own aid projects and support our own aid organisations outside the EEA funds. An effective measure could be to set up own assistance projects in Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary. We know that the Salvation Army applied to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start such a project a year ago, but they have not yet received an answer. On a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he answers me that he does not want to give direct support to individual organisations outside the EEA system. That should be up to date. I believe that we need to think more about helping vulnerable groups in Europe, and we need to think a little outside the box about using civil society that is ready and willing to contribute. If you go to the U.D.'s own websites and look at the social projects in these countries with regard to EEA funds, there are very many of them that have not yet been approved and are not yet started. I would have liked Norway to be able to relate to the EU's space strategy, as the Liberal Cecilia Malmström has done in the EU, so that we could also be part of the EU team to help this group. It's not like we have a proud story in Norway in this field; we have a very broken story in this particular case. We should have been on the team of the European Union to lift this particular group. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also highlighted the importance of energy and climate policy in his presentation. I therefore want to say something about the EU quota market. The EU Parliament voted a few weeks ago on a proposal for crisis measures in the allowance market, which led to the price of emission allowances falling to a historical level. That vote, in reality, makes the EU allowance market almost irrelevant as a tool for reducing emissions, and so it will be for many years to come. The question now is whether we who want an ambitious EU climate policy are ready to mobilise for a new offensive. The quota market covers almost 50 pst. Of Norwegian emissions, it is said that Norway and Norwegian politicians should also be concerned. Instead of doing something, the Minister for the Environment has sent a letter from Norway to Brussels. It is of course nice that the Minister for the Environment sends letters, but I would challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has any more substance to come with here – perhaps an initiative to buy and delete allowances, or a summit initiated by Norway to come up with solutions to the quota crisis. It is at least certain that something has to be done here, and I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs can give us an answer as to what the government intends to do, when, after all, it is about instruments that include half of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. I am also pleased that the Council of States has said that we are now connected to Horizon 2020, if for a long time in the Ministry of Knowledge there was uncertainty about whether we should be involved in such an important promise for Europe. Also this time privacy was absent in the Foreign Minister's statement. It is an important topic that is widely discussed in the European Parliament. But in view of the government's commitment to this field, we had probably not been able to wait for anything else. I also missed comments on what uses to be a permanent post with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, namely human rights and democracy. I have previously praised him for the fact that it has been a regular post, but I hope we can get back to it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e351	Thank you for your input and comments on the presentation. I would like to start again by stating – as we often do – that there is a very broad consensus on Norwegian EEA policy and Norwegian European policy. When the most important issue for the Right and the representative Eriksen Soreide is counting how many government councils have been at informal meetings in Dublin, it also says a little about the level of tension in this conflict. I'll say a little bit about it first. It is very important to participate, and it is very important to participate in EU policy processes where we have access. I've meant that all along. That's what the government means -- just like the Bondevik II government did. Then for this government, as it was for the Bondevik II government, it is sometimes done at the level of the Council of State and sometimes at the second political level, i.e. at the state secretarial level. In fact, the EU is meeting both ministers and ministers of State, i.e. state councils and state secretaries. The most important thing is to participate at political level. Of course, if you can participate at Council level, it is the best. But the statistics that the Right has dug out sub-communicate that we have a lot of other arenas. It has only been so far in our eleven Norwegian State Council visits to Brussels, direct EU-related visits both to Brussels and the other EU capitals. In the case of Ireland, the first person to meet the Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs as President of the European Union was me. Immediately afterwards he met the Minister of Finance, and shortly after that the Prime Minister came again. We have had very close contact with the Irish Presidency, which has also been an excellent presidency that has given Norway a good place, and we have participated at political level at all meetings except one. Then there was a circumstance – when Grete Faremo had appeared in Dublin to attend the Minister of Justice meeting, she chose to go home again in consultation with the Prime Minister because then the In Amenas crisis broke loose. So that kind of thing can do to her. Then I would like to say that I fully agree with participation in EU programmes. Therefore, I am also pleased to be able to say that Norway will participate fully as a full participant in Horizon 2020. And to Skei Grande's comment, I'm going to tell you that no one has been more interested in it than just the Minister of Knowledge. I am very happy that we have got it in place, in line with a good tradition of participating in a very important field for Norway. Then I would like to say that our main focus has recently been to raise the implementation capacity in relation to the EEA Agreement. I have sometimes suggested that we will come back with good statistics, and I can now do that. Last year, 486 acts were incorporated into the EEA Agreement. That's the largest number since 1999. This became a significant positive focus in the EEA Council yesterday. The number of decisions adopted in 2012 namely 233 is the highest since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. In the case of outstanding notices, where there have been many, we are now in only one case after 24 May, namely the credit rating agency. So we've got a very positive development in statistics, and we're going to keep going. It was duly commented on by the European Union at the EEA Council meeting two days ago, also in the light of the above-mentioned representative. So finally, the Snorre Serigstad Valen and several others have taken up is incredibly important, and should perhaps be the centre of the Norwegian European debate now, as we largely agree on everything else: it is the serious crisis in Europe, it is the challenges of democracy and human rights in Europe, and that is the challenge – Skei Grande addressed this issue too – in relation to the Roma and other minorities that we are deeply concerned about. We address this in the EU context. We're using EEA funds, and we're going to use them more. I can also announce now that we have taken the initiative in a discussion with Romania about realising the outstanding funds allocated to CCS, which we are unable to fulfil. We have a similar dialogue with Poland, but it is not aimed at space people, but at other alternative uses of EEA funds. This is high on our attention in the EU, but also in the Council of Europe, in the OECD, where we have the Presidency now in ours, where we meet in a few days, and in a number of other European and wider forums. It really is at the centre of the debate on Europe, and it should do so too. This is the major problem in Europe, even greater than if there are state councils or state secretaries travelling to Dublin.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e370	The representative, Lars Peder Breck, highlighted the issue of giving national power — and in the same breath also the denial of sovereignty. This is contrary to the advantages of the EEA system in terms of this uniform legislation that we have already talked a lot about and which gives us access to a market of 500 million people. This isn't easy. It's a topic that's hard to discuss, and there's a lot of spinal reflexic opposites. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if the government has plans – and to what extent – in the future regarding further renunciation of sovereignty or the surrender of Norwegian power.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e377	It is true that this is an important and demanding issue, because the government's view is that we should contribute to the further development of a coherent regulatory framework. We make that up, perhaps even more than anyone else in Europe, for the very reasons that the representative Myhre himself pointed out. We are perhaps one of the most integrated countries in Europe, more than many Member States in terms of economics. So we're trying to do it in such a way that it's compatible with the basic structure of the EEA. Once again to the former EEA Council, where we drew on from both Norway and Liechtenstein how we want to join the work done in the new financial supervision of the EU, but that we want to do so by having a parallel structure in which we get the same goal across two different channels – an EEA channel à la ESA and an EU channel. I understand the response that the EU is ready to discuss further, and that is the way we are trying to solve the concrete challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e384	I noticed that the representative Serigstad Valen in his article focused on the space people's situation, and then I noticed that the Council of State in the last part of the article also addressed this topic, and said it was the biggest problem in Europe. Does the Council of States really think so, or does he see that the challenges related to the high unemployment rate and youth unemployment in Europe are perhaps a major problem, and can cause more instability in Europe as a whole? - That's the one. Second, when Norway now spends about 300 million. For space measures, how does the Council of State see that these funds can be better used to reduce the beggar wave to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e391	My point was not that space alone is the biggest problem in Europe, but that the deep social crisis with consequences such as exclusion, xenophobia, new conflicts, new pressures on minorities and others on the outside is one of Europe's most important problems. So space is part of a major social crisis in Europe. It has been reinforced, accentuated, by what has happened in recent times in Europe. That is why I believe that the really big debate on Europe now needs to be about how to contribute to the economic recovery of Europe, how to take the right measures to prevent a downward spiral, which will eventually hit everyone, and also have consequences for standards, human rights, democracy, etc. With regard to the issue of space relations here and space people there, I believe that Norway should have a tolerant and open attitude towards all the people who are in Norway. But it is also important to help people where they are originally, and therefore much of the space people's action is precisely directed into the countries where most of the space people have originally lived.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e398	The Minister of Foreign Affairs would like to say that it is strange to the Right that Norway does not use all the space for action we actually have in the EEA Agreement. But I obviously hit a sore point in my post, because it's not just the Right that has "excavated" statistics, this is something that the European Investigation and several others have pointed to for a long time, and that is perceived as a bit funny, as long as the U.D. spends as much resources as it actually does to secure Norway's invitation to these meetings. But one of the main points of my introduction was to highlight the serious situation of many people in Europe, especially young people, in terms of unemployment. It particularly affects countries in southern Europe, but it is both a framework and can affect several countries. Recent demands have been made by the Norwegian trade union movement to have derogations for Croatia when Croatia now becomes an EU member, preventing the free movement of labour and thus also the possibility of coming to Norway and other countries to take up work. In the context of unemployment in Europe and in the context of its importance, can the Foreign Minister say that this will be Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e405	To the last question, we are now in a negotiation process with Croatia on both financial contributions, compensation for the loss of free market access for fish, and on the issue of access for workers from Croatia. Let me say it this way, I absolutely share Eriksen Soreide's intention. We will conclude in the very near future with regard to the whole of that agreement with Croatia, so that we get Croatia in place in the EEA, while they join the EU. Then we will also announce the full text of the negotiating solution with Croatia. I am also pleased that Eriksen Soreide also agrees that unemployment in Europe is an even greater problem than Norwegian participation in informal meetings, but I would like to stress once again that there must be no doubt that we want to use the action space to the full. I think we've got a lot of examples that we're actually doing it. Because it's not just to show up at meetings, it's also to have something to say and something to mean and have positions in the debate. It's also using the action space.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e412	Let me first say that I very much agree with the representative Serigstad Valens in his description of the challenges facing the space people. A comprehensive structural approach is needed to help the space people and improve the situation strongly. A previous questioner was that we're spending $300 million. I guess it's not exactly right, it's like it was 10 pst. of 30 million. EUR 25 million. kr. The question now that we are entering a renegotiation phase of the EEA quota is whether we can expect the share of the EEA quota allocated to measures for space people to increase in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e419	300 million. Thus, during this period, the total amount of action related to space issues in Europe — there is a lot of Romania, but also Bulgaria and other countries. Yes, first of all, we now have some previously allocated funds that need to be realised, related to the failure to meet CCS requests and past agreements, funds that we want to allocate to space measures. But of course, it is also related to what the recipient countries think about it, so there is a discussion we have started for the current period, and, as I said last time, for the next period, starting in spring 2014, we will definitely move more towards both poverty-related measures in general and against space-related measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e424	I am pleased that the government and the foreign minister are so clearly expressing their desire to spend more money on the space people during the current period. This is something that the Christian People's Party ends up about, and we're very positive about. When I drew myself a line, it was actually a lot because of the same question that just came here, about how one looks at it in the next period, about one will use more funds: but I can print a little bit more: how does the Foreign Minister see that we can use these funds? He was into it in the answer, but how does one see that we can use them effectively? Can he elaborate it a little bit?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e429	Firstly, I am pleased with the involvement of the representative Svendsen and the Christian People's Party in this field, which I fully share, and it is in a solid Norwegian tradition. I would also encourage the representative to have a conversation with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party's possible future government partner, on this, since they say that we are too generous and should spend less money through EEA measures. But that is now another matter. We are constantly trying to optimise the use of funds, and when there are some funds that have not yet been used, it is precisely because we want to have control that they go for the desired purposes. However, there may be support for organisations that work for rights promotion, such as infrastructure measures, school and education measures, and other types of action to improve the situation, including reputation and reputation, the ability to assert rights, such as: Roma and, I would like to mention, other minorities, not least in former Eastern Europe, the new Member States of Europe. It's a very important purpose. We are working very closely with the Council of Europe, and it is very gratifying that we have been able to use some of the EEA funds in close partnership with the Council of Europe, which has a great and good focus on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e437	I was actually going to ask why Norway is not part of Cecilia Malmström's space strategy. So I looked out and started thinking about people in the United States who have lost everything they owned, and about people in Norway today who see that their houses might disappear – because of what we've been doing. That is why I want to use my line to ask whether the Council of State is incredibly concerned that an entire quota market, which is such an important part of the climate policy in Europe, is going to collapse, and is not having any impact on climate policy, because prices have fallen as much as they have. Is it not time for Norway to take an initiative to get this market up and go back?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e442	Yeah, I'm really worried about it. I am very concerned about the lack of progress in climate policy in general, and also about the fact that the quota market is not functioning properly, when there are a number of conditions in today's European energy market that make what we thought would work have no effect that we had hoped. This is a very important discussion. We are conducting this discussion with the European Commission and with relevant and interested parties in the EU. In this sense, we have taken the initiative to conduct that debate, and I believe that the transformation of this quota policy must be initiated out of the EU. But we're going to actively support it, and we've signaled that in a number of relevant meetings with our opponents there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e447	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e450	Our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement and other agreements is basically good and stable. The Government also pursues an active European policy and actively uses the EEA Agreement action space. I believe that the question cannot be narrowed into a statistics of state councils that have travelled to Dublin, Brussels or elsewhere. It's the results that count. An active attitude towards the other countries of Europe is constantly important, but it is particularly important now, in view of the economic situation in Europe. The crisis in many EU countries is deep and dramatic, and it appears to be long-term. In total, there are about 26 million unemployed in the EU. It is dramatic that so many people and their families experience unemployment. Especially the young are hit hard, with a leave of over 30 pst. in several countries. We don't have to go further than Sweden to see high levels of unemployment. I believe that today there is also reason to reflect on what we can learn from the financial and economic crisis in the EU countries. One lesson is that you have to keep your government finances in order. Large tax cuts in many countries prior to the crisis resulted in smaller muscles to withstand when the financial crisis was a fact. Countries had also weakened their ability to stand up for those outside. Another lesson is that disadvantaged workers’ rights do not give less leave. Our Norwegian model of social and labour organisation has proved to work well in calm economic times, and we should keep on doing so. In Norway, we are well off, but we still notice the difficult economic times in Europe in a number of ways. Some of our companies exporting to Europe are experiencing market failures and a decline in demand. So far, this has not resulted in extensive closures and lay-offs, but it is obvious that the future can be challenging for many of our export companies. Therefore, the government has recently proposed comprehensive measures to address this situation through the growth package. In addition, we experience many unemployed Europeans knocking on our door and applying for work here. Both Swedes, Poles, Spaniards and people from many other European countries have made their way into our labour market. They are welcome here, but it is very important that they are offered decent pay and working conditions. This is why the government has launched three action plans against social dumping. We must never have four on the demands of a decent working life. Although Norway is not an EU member, we are nevertheless an active player in international cooperation in Europe. Among other things, we have contributed significantly to the IMF's various assistance packages to crisis countries. We are actively involved in the international fight against tax evasion and money laundering related to tax havens. Norway is a predictable and credible trading partner to European countries, and we are a stable supplier of energy and maritime food to Europe. Norway contributes to European cooperation, inter alia: through EEA funds, to support social and economic cohesion in the new EU countries. Then we see that poverty in Europe is not an abstract thing, which is just a long way away. Of those who find it most difficult in today's Europe, the Roma are in a special position. It's good that it's set at 300 million. EEA funds for various space measures in 10 countries to improve living conditions, strengthen integration and combat discrimination in their home countries. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also initiated dialogue with the EU and the relevant recipient countries on the possibility of using unused EEA funds for further increased efforts by the space people. I also think it is very good that the Foreign Minister has so clearly addressed the concern for extremism in Europe, and that the government is actively using both EEA cooperation and the Council of Europe to defend fundamental rights and to combat hateful opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e471	Just a brief comment on the previous speaker: if it is the tax cuts that are the big problem in Europe, it is a little strange that the Prime Minister went out a few days ago and proposed tax cuts in Norway as well. Then I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good account of the Storting on important EU and EEA issues. Norway is part of Europe. The development of the European Union will also be of great importance to us, even if we are not a member. The EEA Agreement provides us with the necessary access to the internal market in Europe. But it also poses some challenges in terms of participation and democracy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is concerned with the constitutional challenges this poses for Norway. I think it's very important to have a serious relationship with the fact that relinquishing sovereignty is a serious thing, and that's something that should have a deep anchoring in the Norwegian people when it happens. Therefore, there has to be a high threshold for renouncing sovereignty in new areas. Then there is also a challenge related to the democratic processes in Europe. It is a challenge to get into EU processes early enough to influence and promote our interests in the system there. And it's a challenge to have a public debate here at home on issues related to the EEA that are of great importance to Norway. Some of the challenges are different – it is a challenge for all EU countries when decisions have been added to bodies that may be too much experienced away from the national decision-making forums. However, the euro crisis has also led the EU into a legitimacy crisis. Measurements of EU accession in the various Member States show that confidence in the EU system has fallen considerably also in countries where, historically, there has been a great upsurge in the EU. In that situation, I am uncertain as to whether the foreign minister’s claim, or view, in his statement that it is ‘evident’ that the answer further for the EU is a closer economic integration followed by closer political integration. Obviously, these two things are related, but the question is whether, in such a situation, closer political integration is the solution when the upsurge is already falling. Perhaps there is also more to the question of the distribution of power between the national level and the supranational level, and where to go. As many have experienced, today the EU is in crisis, with record unemployment, particularly among young people, low economic growth and increasing social problems — and in the extension of increasing extremism. Experience from history shows that this problem needs to be addressed with the highest seriousness. High unemployment, hopelessness and widespread social distress can in a short time create an unstable situation and challenge some of the democratic principles on which we are based. The benefit today in relation to e.g. In the 1930s, there was a completely different cooperation between countries than at the time. Nationalism as an aggressive force may not have the same potential as at the time. But today's danger is that it is felt that political decisions are taken far away by other states or foreign countries, with little impact on decisions. Perhaps one example is the antipathy of many Greeks to both the EU and Germany, as it is perceived that it is these who take decisions about the Greek nation state and almost create some of the problems that are in Greece. There is enough evidence that the EU is finding policy solutions that do not centralise and red tape power further, but that provide co-determination and legitimacy in the processes. And once again, that's why I have some scepticism when the Foreign Minister thinks it's 'evident' that further economic and political integration is the solution. It can also have a different effect. Then there's been a lot of discussion about the space people. I agree that it is important to put in place measures that address the fundamental problems. I also agree with the support provided through the EEA funds. But then there's someone who thinks that you should increase this, and then you're left in a discussion about the amount instead of which help is the best. The help we can provide in our home country is a lot better than facilitating begging in this country. It provides opportunities for economic development in the home country. But then it's important – and therefore there's a timely question from the Christian People's Party here in the lines: how do you actually intend to do this, so that it gets the most effect, and how can you avoid that this money gets into corruption? Then it's not the amount that's important, but that what's done actually has the desired effect, because that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e490	I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs felt that the Right's main points in the debate were counting the number of Council visits in Brussels. This was well supported by the representative Breck, who believes that the right is ‘lua at hand’ and that the main point on the agenda must be to strengthen Norwegian self-confidence. I don't think we need to put any significant more emphasis on strengthening the latter area. I think that's so strong that it's holding at the moment. But when Right wants to point this out, it is because we have to use the arenas and opportunities we have to participate in the influence of European policy, at a time when we see that Europe as a whole is changing dramatically, where we see that a trade agreement between Europe and the United States is approaching rapidly, and where we see that Iceland, among other things. have concluded agreements with the EU and China, which will directly affect the conditions of the Norwegian fishing industry in the market. Therefore, this is about something more, and the Right stresses that it is necessary that we are in place and use the possibilities we have. I would like to draw attention to the last meeting of the Arctic Council in Kiruna last week – which has high prestige in the Norwegian Government, understandably – and the Arctic Council's relationship with the EU. My question is whether Norway was really ‘hands on’ at this meeting. In Kiruna, it was concluded that China — not the European Union — has gained observer status in the Arctic Council. When we see some comments from Brussels after this Arctic Council meeting, I would like to have the Foreign Minister’s comment on this. Some commentators believe that the Nordic countries were dominated by Russian ‘filibusting’ and even more by Canada’s hijacking the whole political process because of the EU’s carbon dioxide on petroleum products from oil sand — the so-called Fuel Quality Directive. The seller is not the reason, as it has been produced in Norwegian media. My impression is that the Canadians – in such a context – seemed to prefer China as an observer and took them into the heat and let the EU stand out in the hall. Perhaps, as some observers in Europe claimed, the competitive situation of the Canadian oil sands was seriously threatened. Several go so far as to establish that the Arctic Council, following the Kiruna meeting, is being looked at in a completely different light from an EU stand and that Norway has let itself be deceived. No one had previously believed that the EU would suffer such a momentous defeat. As an understatement, some suggest that the EU took less than four months to gain observer status in the UN, but that it has now taken the EU four years in a way to be humiliated in view of the application for observer status in the Arctic Council — with Norwegian help, to which some refer. Then is my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is there any reason to fear that in Brussels – in this very important case – Norway is regarded as a kind of soloist who wants to satisfy China at all costs, but who does not dare stand up to Canada, and who made sure that the EU's application was rejected? This is an interesting question, which also directly affects the tone between Brussels and Oslo, Europe and Norway, at a time when we are faced with a series of complex directives we have to deal with and decide on in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e501	First, a comment on the previous speakers, who may not have realised that the EU is actually being taken up, and that there were also three EU countries involved in that decision. It might be a good idea to bring it with you. The Foreign Minister spoke in his statement about the emergence of extremism. Developments are very worrying. As the Foreign Minister recently said at a meeting of the Council of Europe, Europe shares the story of both the worst and the best examples of what humanity is capable of doing. Many people have spoken about developments in Hungary, which are very serious. Real wages in Hungary have fallen by 7 pst in the last few years, and at least half of the population view themselves as losers. Hungary has about 700,000 aliens suffering from widespread oppression, hatred and social distress. From people associated with the dominant government party Fidesz there are many sharp attacks on the Roma people. One of them recently wrote that most Gypsies are not fit to be among people. Most are animals and behave like animals. They should not be tolerated or understood but stamped out. This is terrifying and totally unacceptable. Attila Mesterházy, head of the Socialist Party in Hungary, says that when the outer right of Europe marches, it is always against a backdrop of social and economic problems. I am pleased that the government, through the EEA funds, is strengthening its efforts to defend fundamental rights and combat hateful expressions. I also welcome the government's work on the space people out in Europe. Even before the euro crisis, it was clear that Europe faced major challenges of ensuring prosperity, stability and well-being. We now see that there is a deepening of cooperation in the EU. It will be exciting to follow that development, and I believe Norway has a lot to contribute. We are also Europeans, and we know a responsibility to contribute. We humans need fellowship. It's naturally embedded in each one. What binds us together can be language, identity, proximity, trust, respect and common goals. Norway’s success formula is social cohesion, equality, work for all, a working life for all, tripartite cooperation and fiscal policy. We believe in a society that is close to power, to institutions and to each other. What do our values mean in that phase of Europe now? Yes, first of all, we see that the social analysis of the right-hand side has been totally unsuccessful. A one-sided focus on savings over growth measures, with cutbacks in social benefits and societal commitment, is the path to disaster. This is supported by Barroso, President of the European Commission, who says that the EU has now reached a political limit on how far one can go with narrow economic policies. And Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman characterizes Britain's cut policy as 'deeply destructive', and he says that efforts should be increased rather than cut. When Europe gradually has to find the way forward, we have to look at what binds us together. Europe is so large and complex that it could be a danger of losing sight of each other. Therefore, there is a need for someone to go ahead and run out of the way. Millions of people need hope, something to stretch for and prospects for a better future together. In this picture it is very interesting that the foreign minister launches that the government will work in the future to turn more of the EEA funds towards combating unemployment. That is the most important thing we can do to ensure growth and to prevent poverty. I believe that Norway should have ambitions to play in the future the same role internationally for social cohesion and an inclusive society as we do today in international peacemaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e522	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement he made to the European Parliament on EU and EEA matters. When you listen to what the Council of State said, and after reading the minutes, you would think that Norway’s cooperation with the EU through the EEA Agreement is a success story where there are no challenges. Furthermore, it is easy to draw the conclusion that the Minister of Foreign Affairs would like to see Norway as a member of the EU. There is nothing wrong with it in itself, but it is a reality that we have a government that in many ways is in jeopardy when it comes to the EU issue. For today's foreign minister, it is in many ways like having a Christmas package that he cannot open. In the Progress Party, there is room for both being a trailer and an opponent of the EU. It characterises a party that is for freedom and the right of individuals to decide about their own lives. The Norwegian people have said no to the European Union in two referendums. In other words, the message is flashingly clear, and reinforced by a clear no-majority in several polls on this issue. For the Progress Party, it is essential to listen to the people's views on such a big and serious issue, and the Progress Party will loyally follow the outcome of any new referendum, whether the result is yes or no. But when I listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is a lot of evidence that he means something else. Cooperation is important. There is no doubt that through the EEA Agreement, Norway has an instrument to ensure Norwegian business access to the internal market. For the Progress Party, our participation in the European common market is crucial to ensuring trade with important trading partners. In this respect, it is important for the Progress Party to maintain the EEA Agreement and make use of it for the benefit of Norwegian interests. It should be thought that this was satisfactory enough in many ways, but looking at the different directives coming from the EU system, which Norway adopts and implements willingly, it is natural to ask questions about our relationship with the EU. What real EU policy are we actually pursuing? Are we the kindest boy in the class who ever wants to please Brussels, or are we a nation that puts the Norwegian interests first? I think it's legitimate questions, but I can't find answers in the Foreign Minister's statement, and that's a shame. Here I believe that the statement is too simple and superficial. It must be the responsibility of any government to focus on the Norwegian interests and place them at the highest when we relate to our environment. If it is the starting point, Norway will be able to put even more pressure on the EU and achieve even better results for Norway. Because there is a space for action in EU and EEA cooperation that we need to make even better use of for the benefit of Norwegian interests, both in business and in our political spirit. These are thoughts we see in other countries as well. The discussion in the United Kingdom underlines that there is room for improvement in the relationship with the EU. As David Cameron said in his speech on January 23rd this year: I'm not an isolationist. I am not an enemy of the EU. But I want a better agreement for the United Kingdom and for Europe. I want a relationship with the European Union that holds the United Kingdom within the Union, but then the European Union has to reform itself. Otherwise it will drive the United Kingdom against withdrawal. This clearly shows that other key EU countries also see that today’s works of agreement and internal relations in the EU have room for improvement. We also see that the European Union is creating waves in other European countries. Increasing unemployment in Europe is a good example of this. In Greece you have over 27 pst. unemployment, in Spain over 26 pst. This presents major challenges in Europe. We see that several countries do not want to join the euro, and we see that there is growing opposition to different directives in several European countries. If Norway emphasises these issues in our dialogue with the EU, there is room for better framework conditions for us in both the short and the long term in cooperation and in association via the EEA. In a situation where the EU is changing, the Norwegian governments of today and the future must not go logistically after the EU, but have an active and ongoing policy approach in which we demand and use our position as an instrument to achieve even better results for Norway. As Cameron, I believe the EU is a bureaucratic and sometimes very detailed symposium. When we do not have the right to decide in this House, it is worth having a critical look at the role and function of the European Union. Nevertheless, this should not prevent the use and improvement of the instruments available to us within the current framework of the EEA Agreement. After hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement, I believe that the Norwegian authorities have an improvement potential in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e556	The vision of the Workers' Party for Europe is the same as we have for Norway. Our starting point is the desire for fair distribution, freedom, security and acceptance of diversity. The basic idea of the labour movement to create and share is what lies at the bottom. Norway’s European policy is to take care of Norwegian interests and contribute to solidarity and growth in Europe at a time of mass unemployment – 46 million unemployed – an ageing population and increasing differences between people. We also see greater social tensions in the wake of the economic and social crisis. This means that the Norwegian model with small differences, equal opportunities, work for almost everyone and close cooperation between the social partners and the state receive international attention. In a European perspective, the Norwegian model is a flexible economic model that has enabled us to cope well with the crisis. In Sweden they chose the solution Right and the Progress Party wanted in Norway. They met the financial crisis with huge tax cuts. The rich made them richer, but there were no more jobs. In our neighbouring country, young people are now bused to Norway to get a job. Swedish is soon like a separate dialect to count in Norway. Of course, they are warmly welcomed, for the alternative is that even more people lose their faith in the future. This really shows my point, because I think it is important to note from this pulpit that Europe and the various European countries are governed by a political majority who must take responsibility for the solutions chosen by the countries. That means that I too, as an EU member and social democrat, do not always agree with what is adopted in Brussels. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, said in his statement that the EEA Agreement has an ‘unused space’, but once again, the Right does not say anything about what they want to use the space for action. We saw it in the case of the right of repatriation: the red-green parties secured in 2008 that the rights at the end of the agreement will continue to apply to the State. This occurred after the EFTA Court decided that the Norwegian rules of withdrawal were contrary to the EEA Agreement. The Right Party and the Progressive Party voted against the regime of the government parties, seeking instead a solution whereby private operators could own power plants without returning to the state. In return, the State would have pre-purchase rights if the power plants were to be resold. The consequence of this policy was well described by the Christian People's Party Kjell Ingolf Rupstad, and I want to quote him: ‘The impact of what Frp and Right proposes will in practice contribute to a strong sales pressure in the power sector. The significant capital needed for buying-in will primarily be found in large non-resident enterprises," says Rupstad to the Nation. Combined with a desire to sell out large parts of Statkraft, this shows what the Right Party and the Advance Party will actually use the action space for. We also saw this in the case of a differentiated employer’s fee – an important discriminating policy instrument in Norway. While Erna Solberg, as Minister of State and Finance Per-Kristian Foss, gave up on Brussels during his term of government, we were reintroduced from 1 January 2007. We used the action room. And we see that now, in the case of changes in customs duties on certain agricultural products. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have been more committed to promoting the EU case, despite what we do, neither against the EEA Agreement nor the WTO Agreement. The signals from the EU are also that they have not intended to pursue the case further, as Peter N. Myhre was involved in his statement. It is legitimate that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not like the ostetoll, but the question now is whether they should not acknowledge that it has been a bit up like a bear and down like a skin trap, and put the matter to death, and accept that the black paint that has been repeated from this pulpit has not turned on. Or does the Progress Party and the Right believe that the EU should impose sanctions on Norway in the light of the Eastern Customs case? And by what legal basis do they mean in the case? I want to clarify that question here today. A Euro-LO study demonstrates that professional rights are under pressure during the financial crisis. We have extensive cooperation with Euro-LO – together with our friends in LO – to help ensure that increasing labour migration to Norway does not lead to social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e583	Since it is the last time in this ageing period that Stortinget has a general debate on our European policy, it may be time to reflect a little on our relationship with the European Union during the next enlargement period. Famous with the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an active European policy based on the EEA Agreement, the growing choice of the harvest can in worst cases mean a time gap in this way. Just because European policy is also Norwegian domestic policy to a large extent, it is important that the government uses the influence and influence that the agreement gives us – to defend Norwegian interests and to create the domestic policy space we need in important areas of society. In fact, to some extent we have also contributed to changing EU policies in specific areas. That's enough to mention oil and fish in that way. A government based on the Progress Party and the Right will turn European policy in a servill direction, simply because, like the European Commission, these parties actually believe and believe that an unrestricted market with unrestricted competition is the solution to most of the problems. The representative Peter N. Myhre is a talking example of just this. Such a government will not go to Brussels to declare that Norway is not going to implement the Postal Directive – on the contrary. It will travel to Brussels to inform us that we are introducing it, while liquidating the last remainder of the letter monopoly. In the same sling, it will announce that Norway reverses the percentage of certain agricultural products, weakens Norwegian agriculture’s customs protection and thereby exposes Norwegian farmers and Norwegian agricultural products to increased competition from countries where it is cheaper to produce food. I assume without further delay that the Right Party and the Progress Party have for the longest time told Brussels that they support the fourth rail package of the EU, except that they will not wait until 2019 to launch rail passenger services. They'll do it before, as long as they get government power. They are also likely to regret the fact that, as a result of strong and widespread resistance in the EU, the European Commission has had to put on the planned liberalisation of road transport in the EU. The threat to the railways and Norwegian transport industries is not the EU, it is a government with anchor fasts in the Progress Party and the Right. More precisely, it is unfortunately not possible to describe the government options of the opposition at this stage. Having said that, I will add that the fourth rail package of the European Union is hardly going to be as it is after passing different bodies in the EU system, including the European Parliament. Not only Norway has objections to parts of the package. Nor have I forgotten that the Commission's good intention is to increase the importance of rail in the European transport market. Perhaps – at least we have to hope for it – the central power in Brussels is gradually learning to control both its regulatory and its deregulation powers a little better than they are doing today. Norwegian workers do not deserve a government that will liberalise the labour market in Europe without regard to workers’ rights. They need a government that supports both within and outside the country's borders the trade union movement's struggle for a more decent working life with security of work and income. Is there anyone who imagines Erna Solberg, Siv Jensen or Trine Skei Grande going around Europe to defend workers' rights? This is what European policy is all about in practice. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right to point to the EU Commission’s proposal for a enforcement directive as a challenge for Norwegian working life. The good intention of the Directive is to ensure the rights of workers sent from one country to another to work, i.e. posted workers. We support that. But at the same time, we need to make sure that there is no legislation that limits our ability to fight social dumping. It requires active action. I am very pleased that this is a high priority task for this government. Then the question is again: would a government have done the same thing from parties that have de facto opposed the main measures in the fight against social dumping? The answer really gives itself. If the voters give the country a bourgeois government after the elections in the autumn, it will be a government that will defeat the most market liberal forces in Europe, simply because it is in line with the policies of these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e605	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e608	The Foreign Minister had a thorough presentation last week. I would like to thank you for one thing, which was also discussed by the previous speaker, namely the rail package IV. The package, presented by the Commission in winter, is now to be circulated in EU bodies. Therefore, it is important to stress that we do not yet have a final railway package to deal with. It is not expected that the EU will adopt this before the end of next year's parliamentary elections, perhaps more likely not until 2015. That means that we have time, and, as the Foreign Minister said in his statement, there is time we have to use to influence the decision in the EU and provide us with the space for action we need. The package, as it is currently in place, contains amendments to several directives. Among other things, compulsory competition is proposed for public procurement contracts and opening up to full competition on the track. This is a policy the Labour Party does not want, because we believe it is a faulty railway policy. The main challenge in Norway is to develop infrastructure. That job is well done by the government, and will intensify further, in the years to come. In addition, the railway is an integrated high-cost, fixed-cost system. We have to realize that Norway is a small country. It is difficult to see that competition should have a distinct effect in such a small market as the Norwegian one. The flexibility of today’s rail system, with an operator able to dispose of material and human resources efficiently, is another argument. This view is shared by several EU Member States. We need to take advantage of the opportunities we now have to coordinate with the countries that agree with us and work for the changes that we think are right. On the same day as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stood in this Chamber and made his statement, the Minister for Transport in Brussels was to meet the Commissioner for Transport, Mr Kallas, and the President of the European Parliament. In these meetings she made it clear that the Norwegian view is that we want flexibility and national space of action. When we see what reactions the various proposals in the package have received in several EU Member States, it is not certain that the result will be the same as the proposal currently available. Anyway, we have to use time well with those who agree with us, and try to influence in the right direction. But – as the representative Gullvåg was also involved – we would like to discuss the influence and impact of directives on Norwegian policy, because that is what this is all about. The right has been clear that they want to launch passenger trains, in any case. The party of progress goes even further. That is why this is most of a national political issue, and the debate on what is best for Norwegian railways needs to be taken regardless of what will come of directives once in the future. Former party leaders in the Moderates in Sweden, Ulf Adelsohn, have said about Swedish railway policy over the past 25 years that it is an experiment by “leakful” politicians who have not realised the consequences of their own policy for the past 25 years. Sweden has the most liberalised train market in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e621	I had basically planned to make a generous contribution on the need for cooperation in Europe, especially in times of crisis, and especially in a situation where we see more extreme forces growing in the wake of the debt crisis that many European countries are suffering. But as the debate has evolved, it becomes necessary for me to address some of the points raised. Let me start with Trine Skei Grande's posts. She held a dedicated EU allowance market post. We agree on the importance of the quota market, and we agree that it is worrying that prices are as low as they are. But let me also say in this context that the fact that prices are as low as they are in the economically demanding situation in which Europe is, perhaps, is what helps the quota market to survive. The ceiling on emission rights and the amount that can be emitted each year are lowered every year. If we draw that line up to 2050, Europe's emissions will go down by 70 pst, regardless of what the quota prices are. The problem with a low quota price is that it doesn't help trigger new technologies, and that's what we're going to do if we're going to meet exactly the emission targets we have. So I'm not as worried about the quota market as Trine Skei Grande is. However, it is important that the government knows its visit time and now primarily jobs to influence the framework conditions after 2020, when designing new framework conditions for the EU. Therefore, it is essential that Norway should use the six–seven years ahead to be an active contributor to the design of the framework conditions. So to Laila Gustavsen, who has a number – let me say – of caricatured versions of what Right had to think about both the one and the other. As far as the case of the fall-back situation is concerned, I think we should note that she is not withdrawing her work towards Brussels, but that she is facing a breach of the EEA Agreement. ESA pointed it out. Then you have two possibilities, either to liberalize or to nationalize. So the government chose the last one, and the Right Party and the Advance Party have now joined that position – so she doesn't have to worry about it. But there was a real disagreement about which choice to make. The EU's decision is, of course, firm in this respect. So you related to it. Regarding the question of whether the Right wants the EU to impose sanctions on Norway, I would say that the answer to that is, of course, no. How she can ask that question surprises me very much. So to Steinar Gullvåg, who makes Right as market fundamentalists. Of course, we're not, and it's unthinkable to come up with the kind of rhetoric that Gullvåg here is doing. That's a lot I'd like to say, but I have a hearing on cultural memories, so I'm sorry to leave you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e636	We have a new EU debate. The EU is hailed from the Right and the Labour Party for trying to get out of the crisis. This is in stark contrast to the growing resistance within the EU to the strategy of the economic and political elite to resolve the euro crisis, a crisis which is evolving rapidly into a social and political crisis. We have also received a new EEA debate in Norway. The last example is the clear decision of the LO Congress that Norwegian legislation for the protection of employees’ rights, collective bargaining agreements and Norway’s ILO obligations should not be overarching through the EEA. This is a vision that the Center Party fully shares, and that we work with our allies in the trade movement to promote. This is a position that violates the whole logic of the EEA Agreement, where labour shall move as freely as possible across borders. The issue of the issuing of sovereignty to EU/EEA bodies is an increasingly pressing issue facing Norway. This week’s EEA Council drew up several key legal acts, in which the conferral of sovereignty to the EU Agency is relevant both in areas such as energy, telecoms, the marketing of medicinal products for children and – last but not least – banking and financial supervision. The position of the centre party is clear: we will reject amendments to the EEA Agreement or specific regulations involving increased competence for EU and EEA bodies to exercise powers in Norway. The size has a constitutional responsibility for dealing with issues of sovereignty renunciation. In an article in the New Norwegian Journal, published on the day of the Constitutional Day, first amanuensis Eirik Holmøyvik discusses the practice of decision by the Legal Faculty, the University of Bergen, Stortinget, according to the Basic Law, § 26, on the basis that the waiver of sovereignty is considered to be ‘a minor intervention’. Holmøyvik's conclusion is very clear: ‘The manner in which the Stortinget concludes agreements on the transfer of sovereignty broken by the constitution and system of the Constitution and with fundamental democratic and constitutional considerations.’;» Holmøyvik points out that what happens under agreements on the transfer of sovereignty is that a competence added under the Basic Law to the Norwegian Government or the Supreme Court is exercised by a body belonging to an international organisation. The majority may not adopt a transfer of sovereignty in accordance with the ordinary rule of the Treaty in Section 26 of other Sections. The reason that is often given for this to be done – what is referred to as a ‘safe constitutional practice’ – is that the majority of the Grand Duchy has repeatedly set aside the provisions of the Constitution. As Holmøyvik points out, through his own practice Storting helps to build up under the legal basis of the same practice. Holmøyvik's judgment over this practice is crushing, as he believes it stands on ‘legal basis of sand because the legal basis for it is too thin to legitimise an illegal rule without a reference point in the Constitutional Text and which is still directed towards the Presidency and the system of the Constitution in general and § 93 in particular’. The central party will be faithful to the Constitution and to the paragraphs relating to legislative, executive and judicial power. Any waiver of sovereignty in addition to that already granted to EEA bodies must be dealt with either under Section 93 or under the Basic Law, Section 112.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e664	Access to the EU internal market is a prerequisite for ensuring the well-being of Norwegian society. It is therefore important that we put in place a more active European policy in Norway. There has been a lot of talk lately about the scope of action in Norwegian European policy. It is time we filled it with action — an international space for action to promote Norwegian interests and values. We need to be able to draw EU processes and directives of importance to Norwegian interests more quickly into Norwegian legislation. The four freedoms – goods, services, persons and capital – must move freely across borders in the 30 EEA countries. We can't stand on the brakes. For the Right, it is important to build up all the invisible barriers between countries, so that it is actually as simple and natural to establish or cooperate across borders as within them. It should be as easy to operate across borders in Europe as for example. between the States of the United States. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. In a Europe experiencing increased crisis and increasing competition, it is important that we have a policy that provides predictability for Norwegian workers and consumers. In order to attract skills and labour in a common European labour market, we also need to align ourselves to a common set of rules. EU decisions mean a great deal to Norway, although unfortunately we have very limited opportunities to influence them. EU membership had given us much more influence and better governance. Norway has benefited from an open world and a relatively free trade, and we have had both opportunities and abilities to make a difference. The EEA Agreement has failed in its faults and has given us the opportunity to do so. To date, we have introduced more than 8 000 EU rules. All the time we stand outside the community, we must take advantage of the opportunities for informal participation. This is happening through EU programmes and agencies, where we invest a lot and get even more. That is why I also welcome the fact that the Foreign Minister made it clear today that we are continuing to work on Horizon 2020. We know that 80 pst. of our exports go to the EU, and 70 pst. of our imports come from the EU. The EU countries are Norway's second most important trading partners, and we have a very special interest in Europe being strengthened out of the crisis. It is in difficult economic times that we see the need for community and political action across borders. I note that the representative of Gullvåg was afraid of a new government. [[President clubs]] I'm more afraid that SV and the Center Party... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e679	Then, unfortunately, speaking time is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e682	Let me just say that the main message here from the government is – point one: we have a room for action, and we're going to use it. As Gullvåg illustrated, there are many examples that we're doing more than before. The second message is that we must stand up to common legislation. We're going to include and we're going to adopt. We also have, as I said today, a new record on the best transposition of new acts since 1999, and the largest number of new decisions ever. So we are doing exactly what Mr Kristoffersen has just said – we must not wait, we must implement. But we also have to get up where it's important. Point two – to Ivar Kristiansen: I almost got the impression that the representative Kristiansen was talking about a different meeting from what I was at. The first part of the article was about whether I was ‘hands on’. The second part of the post was that it was all my fault. Both parts cannot be right at the same time. But it's like this is a consensus organ. We don't get any other decisions than what everyone ends up about. It was an intense and long debate. The decision was taken with three EU Member States — including the Presidency of Sweden, two EEA countries, Iceland and Norway — and the United States, Russia and Canada as a consensus decision. This included the EU's inclusion. It is only that the implementation of that decision arises with regard to certain very specific issues related to sales — not to oil sands. No one said oil sand at that meeting. I don't think any thought of oil sand either. There were specific questions about sales, and Catherine Ashton and EU Commissioner Damanaki have issued a joint opinion welcoming that decision. I'm glad, because I was very afraid that that meeting would conclude with no extension. Now everyone, including the EU, is being addressed — albeit with a slight delay of perhaps a few months for the EU. Finally, after hearing both Torkil Åmland and Tom Staahle, I would like to stress that there is obviously a development in the Progress Party in the field of EU vision – perhaps inspired by the right-hand side of the United Kingdom. It shows, every time we hear hereafter that there should be different views of the European Union in this government, that an alternative government is likely to have so much crack. Now the criticism was that we were targeting the European Union, we were logging for the European Union, and we were not putting Norwegian interests first. I would like to say briefly that we put Norwegian interests first, but the main Norwegian interest in EU cooperation is to ensure a sound common regulatory framework. Then there are the individual areas where we have views that we want to promote in addition. But it's an interesting development I would bring with me, and that certainly also gives Right a lot of interesting things to think about in the interesting discussions we can follow in the media. In view of a civil or blue-blue government, they also have a lot to talk about when it comes to the EU. We see that also in Norway we now see a no-side with a right starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e691	After this debate, it is clear at least that a government in which the Central Party and SV have decisive influence, in very many important areas, is significantly different from a government in which the Advance Party and the Right will have significant influence. I hear – with perhaps not so much amazement – that the representative, Fardal Kristoffersen, is talking about exploiting the space of action. It would seem that it would be a long way to go for everything that comes – as quickly as possible – in order for the free flow of everything to cross the border – as quickly as possible. How it could be the most important Norwegian interests is difficult to know. Me and SV agree that we need a common regulatory framework, but it must be a good common regulatory framework. That is why this government has on several occasions chosen to stand up to orders and succeeded with what the bourgeois had laid down long-term. I can then tell my colleagues in the Labour Party that they are at least willing to fight right-wing policy – even when it comes from the EU. I'm glad, and that's a better starting point than laying down completely flat no matter what it is. Now there is a time of crisis in Europe – social unrest and high unemployment. How can one get out of this crisis? This is a very difficult dilemma. Do you need more right-wing policies, with cuts in welfare – as you can see in many places? It's like the medicine you prescribe, in many places is about to kill the patient. Social unrest is reaped. Then I am much more in agreement with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who says that we now need more distribution and good welfare arrangements to prevent social distress. Social distress does not create development and does not bring anything good — either in a country or between countries. One of the most important things that now needs to be done is to ensure the management of banks and finance and to close tax havens. No matter how right a single person behaves, how right an enterprise behaves and how right a country behaves under economic laws, you'll never be safe if you don't stop the dirtholes that make basements take the money and leave. As far as working life is concerned, it is important that we now listen to LO, and SV agrees with LO that we should not change the rules of the labour market, neither the labour law nor collective agreements nor the ILO conventions. That is what has built Norway and made power and money well distributed in this country. Finally, I would like to support everything that was said by my colleague Snorre Serigstad Valen regarding the Roma. This is one of the major human rights challenges we have. We have to take them seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e706	I am pleased with the news from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that we have set a record and have had a slowdown. That's good, and there we have to be – to say it like that. But the point is not as Tom Staahle suggests, to be the nicest boy in the class. The point is not to satisfy Brussels. The point is to ensure that we have a common regulatory framework – a good common regulatory framework. We are the ones who serve it – we have the highest wages and, in principle, the most advanced legislation. We've earned our competitors, for example. in Eastern Europe, must have the same working time framework and the same framework for health, environment and safety. That's what's good for us – that the others can't compete with regard to social dumping at home. So to Peter N. Myhre, he says we have to stop giving away taxes through the IMF. We're not giving away a single tax credit through the IMF. We borrow money through the IMF and get back with interest. It's even a good store. So to the ostetoll: if the EU were to come up with countermeasures, they do not have a basis for doing so. Then they break the agreement. I don't think the European Union does. Peter N. Myhre said that it's basically the oil and the gas we can thank for being so well-being in Norway. It's completely wrong. Oil and gas are good to have both because of revenues and as an industrial catalyst, but in a historical perspective fish, forest and hydropower are much, much more important. It is through the way we have managed these natural resources in Norway that we have created the well-being we have, namely a policy of high employment and low unemployment, a family and gender equality policy that has made it possible for both men and women to be in the labour market, a fair distribution, an active state enterprise policy and district policy, and a large and efficient public sector that takes responsibility for education, health and elderly care. That's the basis for us having the high level of well-being. But I understand that the representative Myhre looks at the oil and the gas, for all that I mentioned, the Progress Party stands several times more distant. It's the supports of a social democratic social model that has brought us to where we are today. That's why it's important to take care of it, so we can stay on that top. Torkil Åmland asked whether it was right to have further economic and political integration in the EU – whether it was a right way out of the crisis we are in. This can certainly be discussed, but the point is that EU countries themselves say yes. At all meetings we have been, and where this has been discussed – including in the parliamentary context – the answer is more integration. That's what you think is the way out of the problems: better financial supervision, which we've got in place, and towards a banking union. The only grievance on it is from conservative politicians from the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e719	I just have to stress once again that the Progress Party is responsible for a European policy in accordance with Norwegian interests. It is based on the EEA Agreement as its main framework. When I hear the rise of some workers' party representatives in this debate, I have to say I am a little surprised. It is in stark contrast to the joy expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement in Stortinget on 14 May, where he said, and which is also available in writing: ‘I am pleased with that agreement’. He referred to the broad agreement on the EEA Agreement in the Stortinget. There is the Alliance-building party of the Workers' Party, while the representatives Gustavsen and Gullvåg stand on the opposite side. The EEA Agreement is based on the four freedoms. It is the framework for the internal market, with free movement – as it says – of goods, services, capital and persons. This is what is essential for the Norwegian economy. And some in the Workers' Party claim that the Progress Party shows too much that oil and gas revenues are important to Norway. Yes, so does all other export products, also – going to Europe. It is European consumers who fill the Norwegian Treasury with income regardless of the type of export goods we are talking about. So it's the way that the Workers' Party finally had to bite the grass and agree to this ostetoll thing, which I think was very deep inside. What I did in my introduction at the outset today was to warn against continuing with such a strategy. As long as we begin to oppose Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, and as long as we act contrary to the entire ideology of the EEA Agreement, we have to assume that others will do so. In this case, the route to unilateral action from individual countries — or from the EU as such — is not a long one against Norwegian exports, for example. fish, where we have strong competitors among EU countries. In this case, I think it is much more important than in many other cases that we try to stand on what we actually agree on. What we agree on – and what the Minister for Foreign Affairs started last week on Tuesday – is therefore the single internal market legislation. We are not just going to comply with the legislation, but we are also going to promote it for further development and improvement. In this case, unilateral restrictive measures against European exports are not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e728	I think China's political and, not least, economic advance northwards had deserved quite a broad debate in this forum as well. As far as Europe is concerned, no one disagrees that it would be in the Norwegian interest to have the EU involved in the development of an Arctic policy and to put in place the necessary traffic rules, including the political ones, for the development of future activity in our northern regions. It has not been my intention, and I do not think I have in any way given the Foreign Minister direct blame for the fact that the EU was not formally taken up as an observer in the Arctic Council this time, but I allowed myself to ask questions about where Norway was going on this question. I asked, not about things I had not possibly got with me, but whether the Foreign Minister had reflected on the comments and reactions to China getting into the heat, while – as the Foreign Minister says – the EU will be taken up, but they have to wait, and they have to wait because of the sales case. Yes, it is possible that the sales case is the direct prelude to this, but for myself, of course, I would have preferred – and I am quite sure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs also do – that Europe, at the same time as China, entered the Arctic Council heat. That is why I think the reactions that this has taken place in the heart also have to worry about the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. China's advance northwards we'll probably have plenty of opportunity to come back to, but I see that in this forum we too avoid taking this debate, if in any way this has a lack of concern around them. We see their interests in our neighbourhood, their interests in Greenland, their construction of a gigantic embassy in Reykjavik, their presence in New Ålesund, and their commitment to Svalbard. I'm not saying this is wrong, but when I notice that this is being referred to, comments and reactions in Brussels, I ask questions about whether this concerns the Minister for Foreign Affairs or not. I find that the answer is that I have not got the whole story, and that this is because of the sales case. So that's a very peculiar reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e738	Just a little comment to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to Svein Roald Hansen who at least implicitly believed that we represented the views of the UK right-hand side. Then I can immediately say that some of the points of view in the direction that I have promoted here have probably also been promoted by representatives of the Central Party – in some of the same direction. In case you fear the British right-hand side, I don't have the fear, it's unfounded-- it's in case far into the sitting government as well. My first point is that renouncing sovereignty is a serious thing that should have deep anchoring in the people. I really thought that was largely agreed on. That's what our Constitution says, that's what our constitution says -- paragraph 93. That's why we have a high threshold to do that, and I thought to the extent that it wasn't so controversial to claim it. So to this with political integration in the EU. I said I was skeptical when the Foreign Minister said it is obvious that deeper political integration is the solution. What is my point is that if, in the EU countries among the population, there is a combination of lack of or weakening legitimacy for the EU bodies – which measurements show you have – and stronger political integration, i.e. more central governance and more bureaucracy from Brussels, you can have a situation that works against its purpose. Those with whom we are talking in Brussels may feel that more integration is needed, but the danger is that the European Union will develop into an elite project with a democratic deficit, and with a lack of lower legitimacy for the people over whom it is intended to govern. I think that is a conditional concern. That is why I believe that it is not obvious that you should go that way. I think you should think about it carefully. I do not disagree that there may be things you should tighten common rules on, for example. in the financial and economic sphere, but I also believe that we should think carefully before entering into a project in which we believe that deeper political integration is an obvious solution. That was my point, and it has several – including from the government parties – said in this room, so that British right-hand side, it is in case relatively strong in Norwegian government circles.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e749	I have to say a few more words about Arctic advice, because it wasn't just China that was taken up as an observer, it was also Italy, Japan, South Korea, India and Singapore. All of these are countries that we are politically close to, and we believe that the interest of the Asian countries in ending up on the principles behind Arctic Councils – which include respect for the law of the sea, indigenous rights and the environment – is good. I said in my post that there is nothing called free lunch. Joining as an observer also involves obligations, and we are pleased that China too has to deal with those obligations. I don't know if I'm going to interpret it so that the Right believes we should keep China and the other Asian countries out. It was a little bit unclear in Kristiansen's articles. I am, were, and remain a hot follower of the EU becoming an observer. I thought it was completely in place. They met the criteria. I disagreed with Canada's initial view that the sales question had to be resolved, and it is publicly known. I lobbied at all the parties that had not decided, so that the EU, without reservation, would be included in this round. But it's in a consensus organization, so you sometimes have to work towards a solution that everyone can live with. It became considerably better in my opinion as the clock approached half past two at night than it seemed to stay at midnight hours at this very famous lunch just for government councils, and I think it was important for Arctic councils that we got a progress. So there is a decision on the principle that the EU is included. They will be, and they themselves have wanted to welcome that. There are probably a lot of opinions in Brussels that Kristiansen has picked up. I am concerned that Ashton and Damanaki have actually made a statement that wishes to welcome the decision, and I think that is good. So to the question that Åland travels. Yes, I think it is very clear that the EU needs more integration, because one has been in a kind of intermediate field where one has tried to integrate parts of the policy that have not been compensated with other parts. For example, it has contributed to the crisis by failing to meet its own requirements for convergence criteria, and it has contributed to the crisis by not having a common financial supervision. In fact, if Europe and the euro project are to succeed, we need to integrate more. But I agree that it requires popular legitimacy, and that is why I am also a member of the European Union because it strengthens the place of the European Parliament, strengthens cooperation with national parliaments, and further develops a European political culture, so that we do not only have individual countries debating the European Union individually, and then meet at the elite level in Brussels. There is an important challenge for the European Union, and there – as a very committed European – I am actually taking part in the debate on how the EU should develop, and I believe that more integration is the answer to many of the problems, but it must be anchored democratically.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e760	I think it was necessary to submit a comment to the representative of the Progress Party Peter N. Myhre. He said in his first post that he is in favour of full free trade, and he used the EU as a model for how to solve it. Let me put it this way: in my view, the EU is for full free trade when it comes to exporting its goods, but they are against full free trade when it comes to importing goods – just like many other countries, which also have different arrangements, nor is it so different from Norway, to say so. In my opinion, the description of Article 19 of the EEA Agreement given by Myhre is incorrect. It is clear that the intention is to liberalise trade in agricultural products, but it also states – as Myhre absolutely does not mention – that it should be within the framework of the existing agricultural policies of the respective countries. And one fact is that Norwegian imports of food under the Article 19 agreement have increased enormously, while Norwegian exports have not increased at all – in line with this agreement. So we have, in full agreement and perhaps more than enough, met the need for liberalisation, as Peter N. Myhre of the Progress Party points out – let's put it that way. Let me also say that it's interesting that this ostetoll thing lives as well in this room. I think that's very good, because then we've focused on a very important point, namely that using an international code in the way we've done here takes care of the interests of Norwegian business, and it takes care of the interests of Norwegian districts. I am delighted to see that day the Party of Advancement and the Right reverses this policy. Then there will be many who respond. Finally, I must say that I am very surprised at the fear of the representative of Ivar Kristianssen. Ivar Kristiansen frames up all the ‘threats’ in China’s participation in joint research in the New Zealand Sound, China’s activity in Greenland, China’s activity in the North as such, but I think it is actually very positive that countries from the East may also have an interest in being involved in developing new ways of working in the North, as one now opens up by being observers in the Arctic Council. And let me say it like this: in the sales case, Norway is completely in agreement with Canada. We have said it quite clearly that we support Canada in the sales case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e773	The representative Peter N. Myhre has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e776	It is not entirely unexpected that the representative Breck focuses on the resistance of the Progress Party to eroding the basic principles of the EEA Agreement. We're used to that from a number of debates in this room. Then I just want to add that when Breck keeps saying that the EU is for freedom of export and for freedom of import, it is true that it is outside the EEA territory. The same could be said of Norway. Norway has definitely no free trade in full respect of non-EEA countries. That is why we are in the EEA – in order to reduce the barriers to trade in Europe. We're not in the EEA to build trade barriers in Europe, and I think the Foreign Minister actually agrees. That is why, on our part, we are warning against experimenting with new trade barriers against the EU, because this can lead to counter-reactions, and it is definitely not in accordance with Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e783	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Storting meeting on 14 May 2013 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e801	2014 will be a milestone in the Afghanistan War Army. Security is now gradually taken over by the Afghan government army. How well they master this is uncertain. The guess of what happens after 2014 cracks, but they have one thing in common: the focus is on what will happen within this war-torn country in the years that follow. With this interpellation, I'm going to focus on the outside. There is too little focus on what regional actors can mean for the outcome in Afghanistan. There is almost no debate on the impact of what is happening in Afghanistan on the regions around it. That's this regional dimension I want to put the search light on today. Norway should not just think about what we can do for and in Afghanistan. We need to develop a stronger regional commitment, and here there are important foreign policy challenges. Let me briefly mention the following: We need a regional perspective in the fight for lasting peace in Afghanistan. The country’s neighbours must wish and join forces to close the process of deghanization. This is particularly important when the vacuum of power is to be filled by large foreign military forces. India and Pakistan, in particular, must develop a more constructive interaction in favour of a stable and well-functioning Afghanistan. Furthermore, it is important in itself to improve the intergovernmental relationship and to prevent conflict between these two countries, both of which have acquired nuclear weapons — with the great risk involved. What could destroy more than anything else for a better relationship between India and Pakistan is the conflict around Kashmir. This is an effective wound in the intergovernmental relationship and a continuing tragedy for the Kashmiri people. In the region there is fear of a renewed wave of violence and terror in Kashmir after 2014. There are Islamic militant groups that, after 11 September 2001, became more involved in the war in Afghanistan, so that the level of power in Kashmir was reduced. Some fear that the situation may get worse again. As the leader of the Kashmir group at Stortinget, I follow developments in this region with particular interest. In January came news reports of the blooming of military strikes along the control line, which traverse Kashmir. Life was lost both among Indian and Pakistani military. In an analysis by the intelligence company Stratfor, we could read the following: that for periods there is an outbreak of shooting between the Indian and Pakistani sides of the control line through Kashmir, is nothing new. However, the latest strikes may be an indication of the increasing problems the two countries will face in the future when the American leadership goes to the end and Pakistan struggles to gain control over militant groups on its territory. When two Indian soldiers were killed in an attack on January 8, this year, the attackers were dressed in Pakistani uniforms. In a press release afterwards, Pakistan refused their solar data to execute the killing, but the text left open if militant groups had dressed in Pakistani uniforms and carried out the attack with the hope that they would spearhead the conflict between India and Pakistan. Someone wants it. In the ten years since 2001, the war in Afghanistan has attracted jihad warriors from the region, and the level of power in Kashmir has been lower than in the 1990s. There were fewer actions from militant groups that had operated in Kashmir. Instead, their armed efforts were concentrated on the Pakistani border area against Afghanistan. When the international military exposure in Afghanistan is stepped down, one can see that the United States, Pakistan and the Taliban are seeking an agreement with the Government of Afghanistan. Regional impacts may increase. India, which has expanded its economic cooperation with the Karzai government, will see a risk of being harmed. While the Taliban in Afghanistan may be strengthened, their Taliban brothers in Pakistan may risk becoming losers in such an agreement between the United States and Pakistan. It probably helped the Pakistani Taliban in winter trying to get a truce with the army in Pakistan. The group agreed to give up the actions of the Pakistani state as ‘soldiers for the United States’ and expressed its willingness to cooperate on a revised basis. It's interesting to read what it's going to mean. The Taliban of Pakistan demands that, instead of taking part in a war against Muslims, Pakistan's military was prepared to take a rebound for Pakistan's war against India in 1971. This shall be done by attaching the forces of Kashmiri peace fighters to the Pakistani military forces. And in an exclusive TV interview on January 6th, the Pakistani Taliban leader, Rehman, promised to send warriors to Kashmir and launch a fight to introduce Sharia in India. It is not strange that India is being alarmed by such a signal. In India, people think of the attack on India's parliament in New Delhi capital in 2001. The Pakistani-based organisation Lashkar-e-Taiba, or the justiceed army, was responsible for the terrorist action. The organisation was then banned in Pakistan, but is also suspected of having ordered the major terrorist action in the Indian city of Mumbai in 2008. The fair army is one of the largest terrorist organizations in Southeast Asia. An opinion poll from April shows that 94 pst. of his militant followers might think of war in Kashmir. There will be no peace from such a thing. I take these perspectives because several of them are not very prominent in the Norwegian Afghanistan debate. It illustrates my point: in this region, the developments in one conflict can quickly play over to another. Let me stress that the governments of India and Pakistan have in recent years done a lot to mitigate the level of conflict. The elections in Pakistan will now bring about a change of government. The Prime Minister of India has already invited his forthcoming Pakistani colleague for talks. It's a positive initiative. The international community must support such contacts and help build confidence and provide a basis for resolving conflicts over the negotiating table instead of on the battlefield. The most dangerous conflict in the region alongside the Afghanistan conflict is the Kashmir conflict. He has our main cause for several wars and an ongoing conflict between India and Pakistan. Kashmir was the most important theme of war in both 1947, 1965 and 1999. Only the war in 1971, when Bangladesh broke out of Pakistan, has not had Kashmir as its starting point. The Kashmir conflict is therefore very important to resolve. But it is important to stress that he is not just about the relationship between two states – India and Pakistan. No lasting and fair solution will be given without the own voice of the Kashmiri. Norway cannot do miracles alone. However, as we are doing to improve the situation in Afghanistan, we can also, in cooperation with others, contribute more in a regional context. That is my challenge today. I look forward to the Foreign Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e841	Developments in South Asia are complex. It applies to the region as a whole, it characterises bilateral relations, and it characterises the situation in each country. The interpellant's questions are all about these three levels. One theme is how changes at one level intervene in development elsewhere. First a few words about Kashmir and the status of India-Pakistan relations. The inter-pellant expresses a concern, as I share, for the persistent and stuck conflict over Kashmir. It has been going on since the splitting of British India in 1947. When the Storting discussed this matter in an interpellation two years ago, there were several signs of improvement in the development of Kashmir. The same was true in India-Pakistan relations. I therefore share the concern of the representative Hareides that in the course of this spring there has been another impact over what is called the line, which shares Kashmir. In the bilateral conflict over Kashmir, such strikes are not uncommon. Last year, the United Nations military observer group in India and Pakistan, UNMOGIP, reported 215 incidents over this line. Some of these also make headlines in the media. On the Indian side, 74 violations were reported, while Pakistani media reported 71. It's hard to find a particular pattern in which events reach the media. It may be the nature, extent, duration or degree of brutality of events. The brutality was the background to public attention around the killings on Indian border guards in January this year. A separate report has been transmitted to the United Nations headquarters in New York. The conclusions are so far not publicly known. In addition, the UN Observatory has not reported any new episodes in the last few to three months. This may indicate that the parties have made efforts to calm the situation. However, there is nothing to suggest that the events of spring between India and Pakistan have been politically driven from the capitals of the countries. It is rather local conditions that have been recorded and led to local impacts. These episodes are, of course, serious enough, but should not overshadow the overall and long-term trend that can be said to be positive. Interpellant asks what Norway and the international community can do to help promote a solution to the conflict. Kashmir is, as I have mentioned, a bilateral conflict of territorial control. At the same time, there are several conflicts within Indian Kashmir, and we are talking about a conflict-torn region. Let me therefore stress that a solution cannot be imposed on the parties from the outside. Countries themselves need to take the necessary steps to resolve the conflict. Pakistan and India also have an agreement that a solution for the whole of Kashmir — on both sides of the border — will have to be found through bilateral negotiations, the 1972 Simla Agreement. Everything indicates that unfortunately this will still take a long time. Our role is as good as possible to support and encourage the process of the countries themselves. Norway follows the situation in Kashmir particularly closely through our embassies in New Delhi and Islamabad. We are discussing the conflict in our conversations with both authorities and others in both countries. In such conversations, we encourage both parties to seek to resolve the conflict by peaceful means, just as the interpellant also pointed out, and not on the battlefield. We ask them to help avoid new waves of violence. We point out that local people's wishes and views must be given great importance in a future solution to the conflict, and we stress that people's human rights must be respected on both sides of the line. The conflict between India and Pakistan has deep historical roots. There are many challenges associated with Kashmir. I don't think a solution will be to find in some kind of big breakthrough, where everything is all of a sudden negotiated. I rather believe in a long-term process, in which the parties step by step build confidence. Here we – as part of the international community – still have to show patience, so that the parties get the time they need to come up with sustainable solutions themselves. So our role is to keep both parties responsible. We must stress that obligations and rights are mutual sizes. Then to the regional picture. The issue concerns the extraction of Afghanistan by NATO and the possible negative impact on the development of the territorial conflict over Kashmir. Of course, the phase-out of ISAF at the end of 2014 will be a central event for the region. We have been helping to build up the Afghan security forces for over ten years. They are now taking control of the country themselves. We don't know how well they're going to handle the problems that are waiting. We know that it will be demanding. But foreign military forces cannot solve Afghanistan's long-term challenges either. Therefore, in consultation with the Afghan Government as early as 2010, NATO decided that phase-out of ISAF in 2014 would be correct. A constructive regional neighbourhood is also crucial to the stability of Afghanistan. Stability is a prerequisite for inclusive and sustainable social and economic development. Strengthening and formalising regional cooperation is therefore an important strategic objective for our efforts. Norway was early off to stress that the challenges in Afghanistan had to be understood in such a regional context — we were actually among the first — and just not confined to Afghanistan. That is why we took an initiative to bring the region together in an informal dialogue. This has been about how best to facilitate concrete and mutually committed cooperation across national borders. It led to what is now known as the Heart of Asia process or the Istanbul cooperation, where India and Pakistan are also actively involved. There is good tone and good progress in this work. However, although the regional dimension is very important, I cannot see that there is a direct line between ISAF’s dwindling in Afghanistan and increasing security challenges in Kashmir. The Kashmir conflict is taking place, historically, in Afghanistan for three decades. The exception is what happened after the Soviet Union's retreat in 1989. Then Pakistan arranged for Islamic warriors who had fought in Afghanistan to attack India in Kashmir. We're going to notice that a lot has changed since then. Pakistan and India have had a robust and structured political dialogue since 2004. It has resulted in a number of confidence-building measures. Pakistan has also stopped aid to Islamic warriors who want to fight in Kashmir. The dialogue has so far failed to address the underlying cause of the conflict, the very division of Kashmir and other controversial land areas. It has led to a completely different political tone between the two countries, at government level and between the populations. Pakistan has recently implemented elections in a new national parliament. In the election campaign, neither India nor Kashmir was a matter. This clearly shows a shift in attitude. That it also suggests a change in mood, became clear when the election outcome was available. Pakistan's new Prime Minister, Nawar Sharif, wants closer relations with India. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has responded by inviting the newly elected Pakistani Prime Minister to visit. This is very positive. In spite of many violence episodes, up to election day in Pakistan – 51 killed and 150 wounded, at least – the elections were held calmly. Researchers at The International Foundation for Electoral Systems, IFES, point out that it is the most democratic and best-performing election in the country's history, with a participation higher than expected. That being said, the new Pakistani government is facing huge challenges in the long term. The country's economy is in poor condition – government revenue does not cover government expenditure. Tax revenue, as a share of GDP, is among the lowest in Asia, and it will need loans from the IMF to meet its payment obligations. We also see a strong increase in the scope of sectarian violence, and Pakistan's terrorist organisations have been given greater foothold in the country. How all these serious challenges are addressed will have consequences for the stability of the country. The robustness of the relationship between India and Pakistan will include: depend on Pakistan’s ability to control the many different armed militant movements. Indian politicians will be under a lot of pressure if there are similar terrorist actions to those we saw in Mumbai in 2008. Let me end by reminding you that in conflict situations it is often difficult to get reliable information about people's attitudes. Nevertheless: World Global Opinion, linked to the University of Maryland, cartels in 2011 the attitudes to the Kashmir conflict, also among Pakistani and Indian citizens. The findings surprised. The study showed that 70 pst. Pakistani thought that improving the relationship with India was important. Indian side meant 74 pst. Same thing. At the same time, 69 pst. in Pakistan and 67 pst. in India, priority is given to increasing trade between the two countries. This is interesting and positive and makes me believe that there is a basis for further confidence-building between the two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e883	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the good and constructive answer. I share his description, especially when it concerns the Kashmir conflict, which has been in 64 years, and how important it is that we do something about it. Clearly, the conflict in Afghanistan is very marked by the countries and regions around it. There's got to be a look at the whole thing. We have already committed ourselves to a long-term follow-up in Afghanistan, primarily with development assistance, but also with military support functions within the new framework set when the Afghans now take responsibility for their security. My blasphemy is that then it's important that we view the region as a whole. I very much share what the Foreign Minister says about the new signals we see between Pakistan and India. Obviously, the conversations you are currently having at Prime Minister level will be very important. The Kashmir conflict has been for 64 years. We can't let it go on indefinitely, but I share the assessment the Foreign Minister gives, that believing in a sudden breakthrough here is not right. In order to improve the negotiating climate, it is important that both countries contribute to building mutual trust and to reducing fear and hatred. Pakistan must contribute, including: by the fact that militant activists are not allowed to prepare attacks on Pakistani soil against India, which has happened this year. Of course, this has a negative impact on the situation. India must contribute in the same way and refrain from acts of unrest. India is careful with the death penalty, but the execution of Afzal Guru in February created severe reactions in Kashmir. Norway is against the death penalty and is asking all countries to refrain from it. It is a principle that must, of course, apply in this region. As I said, I hope that Prime Minister talks can make progress in Kashmir. Norway needs to actively support it. Sa_ga is not allowed to sleep. I feel that there was also a signal about it in the foreign minister's reply. I'm very happy with that answer, precisely because it shows Norway's commitment to a conflict that characterizes the whole region.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e894	The interpellant Hareide agreed with my post, and I agree with his comments on my post. So it's good to know that there's a broad consensus that this is a big and important issue. It has strong regional dimensions. It affects those who live in Kashmir. It concerns India and Pakistan, and it affects the region. Of course, it is absolutely right that now, as the region is moving, it is a reasonable time to ask questions about the consequences it will have for the long-term Kashmir conflict, not least as regards the risk that groups that have fought in Pakistan and Afghanistan may choose to go to Kashmir. But the answer is – as both of us now, both interpellant and I, have underlined – that the two countries must both take responsibility. They must continue the constructive dialogue that is under way. Both parties must be willing to give something, and both parties must demonstrate the ability to keep extreme forces in their own country in check. The question then becomes less about will, and very much about ability, about it. Is there anything we can do to possibly strengthen that ability? We have a non-negligible cooperation with Pakistan, which is just about to support, among other things. state-building measures. I think one of the important advice we can give, especially Pakistan, is to do some things to strengthen the state's income base, to get a more effective state to implement security measures and also improvements in living conditions for the population, and in that way perhaps some groups can withdraw from more extremist positions. But I also think that we should be very aware of the risk that a setback can quickly accept existing nationalistic flows. Therefore, it is very important to follow closely and to contribute to a global society seeking to help both countries in this tense situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e906	The Kashmir conflict is a conflict of concern and interest that a number of Nordics with a background in the region. As has been pointed out, it is over 60 years old. There has been a conflict area with three warriors, strong military presence and repeated frictions and confrontations between India and Pakistan. It is a conflict that undermines the fundamental human rights of the ten million people living there. There are abuses, killings and disappearances, and many have also been affected humanitarianly by the instability that such a conflict brings. At the same time, there is a conflict that India and Pakistan already agreed to resolve bilaterally in 1972. It's a responsibility they have to take. However, the conflict also contributes to the strengthening of conflicts in a conflict-filled region. Therefore, there is reason for concern that a more unstable and alarming security situation in Afghanistan — if it were to happen at the end of the ISAF operation — could make it even more difficult for India and Pakistan to find a solution in Kashmir. The mistletoe between the countries has stung deep. When the Foreign Affairs Committee was in Geneva three years ago and had a lunch meeting where, among other things, the Pakistani ambassador was present, and the theme was disarmament, asserted the ambassador that India rusted up in order to wage war against Pakistan and China at the same time. It says a lot about how deep the mistrust and the mistrust are. We hope that the dialogue over the last few years has dampened distrust and built more trust. I have nothing to add or, I had just said, subtract from the analyses that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and to the extent that the interpellant, gave in terms of the regional consequences of the completion of the ISAF operation in Afghanistan next year. We do not know what the situation in Afghanistan will be, and how any unrest there might be, or whether unemployed troublemakers will find new areas to work in. Perhaps the most important thing is that the established Istanbul cooperation remains an important arena, precisely to meet the challenges in Afghanistan in a regional context. Afghanistan is a country that has enough challenges, both in terms of security and economic development, if it does not also remain an arena for conflicts between neighbouring countries. I want to point to an important lesson that we should draw from this. For too long, a unilateral emphasis was placed on the military side of the operation in Afghanistan and too little on the political, both within the country and regionally. The US approach, pointed to President Bush’s concept of the ‘axis of evil’, was far too long in the way of a political approach that included all groupings. Today, everyone recognises that there is no realistic political solution that can provide the basis for a stable Afghanistan without including and involving the Taliban. I'm also saying this with the address of the opposition parties. The Labour Party has often been criticized because we have recognised the need to talk to all parties in a conflict, from Yasir Arafat to Hamas and the Taliban. The fact that someone stands for a policy, values and methods we distance ourselves from must not stand in the way of a possible way away from violence and war, to a political and peaceful solution. Peace must, as you know, be created between enemies; between friends it should already exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e925	This is a recurring theme in this room, and there have been raised both questions and interpellations around this topic several times. We can record that this is an old conflict, 64 years old, and it doesn't seem that there has been any improvement in the situation over the 64 years, despite the fact that the parties have actually concluded agreements with a view to improving the situation. It's serious. There's a limit to how much one can debate a matter and think that only pure debate will solve it. I think this case – and there are other examples around the world – is a good example of a lot of talk and little action. More stringent requirements need to be imposed on the parties that they actually comply with what they agreed on as early as 1972, and also what they agreed on in February 1999, when the two former Prime Ministers signed a joint declaration on the intensification of efforts to resolve the outstanding issues, including the Kashmir conflict. We haven't come so much longer. At the same time, we see that the number of people who are injured and killed as a result of events down there is increasing. It's dramatic. It is important that the parties themselves sit down and negotiate and agree, but it is also important that the world community enters, through the UN, and becomes even more active in this conflict, that a take-up and actually make the parties deal with what they have become mutually agreed on at an earlier time. The risk is that in this area, this turmoil could provide better conditions for terrorist organisations, and that is something we want to avoid for everything in the world. This region may be a terrorist site if we allow it to develop, and it will help to create even more fear and uncertainty, far beyond this area. My call – and it is nice to record that there is consensus in the Chamber here – is that the Foreign Minister also intensifys this pressure through the UN system, ensuring that this matter is raised high on the agenda, and that more stringent demands are made on the two countries involved, so that they actually live up to the commitments they have towards each other and towards the inhabitants of this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e936	I would like to thank the interpellant for travelling one – I had almost said unfortunately – the current interpellation debate. The regional perspective is here, like very many other places in the world, a dense and integrated part of the conflict complexes. None of these conflicts can be seen in isolation. It may be more true with regard to the Afghanistan-Pakistan-India axis than there are many other places, including the long-standing and brutal conflict in Kashmir, which, despite the fact that violence mainly bubbles below the surface, constitutes one of the most irreconcilable so-called frozen conflicts we see today. It's a conflict with long historical roots, which isn't just about the last 60 years. It has also been seen that when relations with Kabul are bad, Pakistan wants to improve relations with India. When the Afghan-Pakistan relations are good, the relationship with India goes down and home. The Kashmir question does not have a single solution. Nor does it have the wider conflict complexes in the region. Nevertheless, it is impossible to avoid talking about Pakistan’s key role – a country that historically has largely defined its existence in terms of conflict and rivalry with India. Not least this applies to the army and the security structures. Locking the conflict may be multifaceted for the enemy images. The recent democratic elections in Pakistan are a point of light and carry a bid for something that may be a positive change, but it will, of course, also be extremely demanding. India believes that the Pakistani military is at the heart of the problem, while Pakistan can no longer be said to be a unit in terms of the attitude and approach to Kashmir, one actually has three different centres of power; the civil leadership, the military and the jihadists. In the first place, it is important to support civil leadership. It is also a challenge for Pakistan to define almost exclusively the relationship with its neighbour at the other end, namely Afghanistan, into the same long-term conflict. The need for a so-called strategic depth, along with the legacy of the war that has been in the Soviet Union, has in many ways made Pakistan a spoiler even when it comes to development in Afghanistan. Afghan – and to the extent Indian authorities – have also done their part to build up under this feeling. There is a cycle of tension and conflict, and among those who suffer the most, is the civilian population in Kashmir. One is trapped in an uncertainty in an ongoing major conflict between militant groups and Indian soldiers, who also in part use brutal repression against civil protests. Infringements and violations of human rights are constantly being reported. There is also no doubt that what is now happening and will happen in Afghanistan in the coming period, of course, also has important ring-effects in the region. 2014 is known as the year in which the transition in Afghanistan is to be completed, but it is also the year of the presidential elections in Afghanistan. Rivalry and positioning are already underway, and there are many questions about what Pakistan will be best served with, and how they will play into what is happening in Afghanistan. Will they be the best served with a calm and stable Afghanistan, or will they be the best served with a still troubled Afghanistan? More and more fortunately, for the first part of the explanation, that a stable and calm Afghanistan will serve Pakistani interests, but there are also questions about Pakistan, possibly – depending on who becomes presidential candidates – so as to live with a non-Pashtun president, for example. There are many things that are involved in this conflict, which of course will also have ‘carriers’ of what will happen in the future. What Norway can do is, of course, limited in context, but I think it is a point of light to record that now, in connection with the fact that there has been an increase in both trade and people-to-people contact over the line over a certain period of time, there has been a rather dramatic decrease in Kashmir violence. That's a point of light I think is positive to include, while Norway, like everyone else, has to appeal to the parties. The parties are responsible for finding the solution to the conflict and it is only in this way that Norway can make a constructive contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e955	I chose to take these perspectives because they are little in the Norwegian debate around Afghanistan. It illustrates my point here, that in this particular region, the development of one conflict can quickly play over to another. I would like to thank you for the good recordings that have come and will comment briefly on them. I believe that the representative of Svein Roald Hansen is quite right that it has our mistrust that has shaped this conflict, and I think, fortunately, what we see now, is a closer dialogue between India and Pakistan. As others have pointed out here, the dialogue that is currently at Prime Minister level can be an entry into a solution. Tom Staahle says very correctly that this is a debate we've had several times in this room, two years ago. At the same time – although we have had this debate up here – I still feel that the Kashmir conflict is in many ways the forgotten conflict. Given how important the conflict is and how many people are characterized by him, I actually feel that the debate around him is very quiet. I agree with Staahle in making stricter demands. I also think it's important that not only does it happen from the Norwegian side, but the United States is also clearer in its claims to the two countries that this is the most indebted. I thought Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide's words that this is a frozen conflict are very striking. That's probably what it's been for 64 years, so it's not a single solution here. It was also pointed out by the Foreign Minister himself that one cannot believe in a sudden solution, but must put considerable pressure on the parties, and that one with this slow, but surely can come closer to a solution. In some areas we see a positive signal. I just want to give one thanks to those who have contributed, and I'm happy for the commitment that is from Norway's side into a conflict that it's important that we focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e966	I would also like to thank you for good and constructive input and another confirmation that, in many important foreign policy issues, there is a broad political consensus in Norway, and that it is important to keep an eye on what we can call frozen conflicts. I just want to add a couple of observations. One is that it's very important to remember that this conflict is intergovernmental, it's a conflict that is basically between two sovereign states we recognize of course, and that they themselves say that they want to resolve the conflict. Therefore, the contribution of international society is different from that of more typical internal conflicts — just to clean up intellectually what you can and cannot do. It has to support processes that are based not only on Kashmir itself, but also in New Delhi and Islamabad. The second is – and that was the representative of Eriksen Soreide very rightly – that historically, the Kashmir conflict has probably been the most existential of Pakistan, even more so than of India, in the sense that the Pakistani security apparatus has almost had its ‘raison d’être’, its whole reason to exist, in the Kashmir conflict, in a way that probably exceeds the relative importance of other issues in India. Now we see that India is a country that is moving up in the category of global actor. There's a formidable economic growth in India, and a lot of the world's growth is happening in Asia. This gives me some hope, because it can also mean that other themes, other focus areas, can get more attention than this traditional land conflict. Although I still believe that it is long before the conflict is resolved, the first thing to do with a conflict is to make sure that one stops shooting at one another and rather let it be frozen in the absolute sense until more constructive solutions have been found. I think there's something positive in that Asia, the dynamics of Asia, is about to change fundamentally. While many of these areas — at least from a European perspective — were some kind of Europe’s periphery, it is more likely that in the twentieth century it will be reversed that the centre of gravity for international policy will become Asia more and more. We are talking here about a conflict that lies between South Asia and more what can be called the Central Asian region. It's very important that both South Asia, Central Asia and Eastern Asia come together in many of the new opportunities that are emerging here. If they do, there's hope. If they don't, these kind of unresolved conflicts can pull down where cooperation should really pull up. That's why working with both parties, Pakistan and India, is so important to inspire a more constructive development in Kashmir. I'm glad we got the opportunity to discuss it again. Although it's not an expression of big disagreement, it's important that we keep focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e976	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-23.ana.ud864e989	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
