ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e26	The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e37	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e40	On behalf of the representative Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative for a Commission to examine and assess the overall monitoring to which Norwegian citizens are subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e45	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e57	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende and the Council of State Anders Anundsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e64	My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Defence. The importance of good preparedness has been our experience in the profoundly painful way. Some of the learning points relate to how a person gets well prepared are closely related to training, competence and cooperation. Then there are several measures that need to be taken. One of the measures taken by the previous government was to establish a new emergency centre at Alnabru, Oslo. This government has begun its work of looking for alternative locations for such a center. Their grounds are land and building size, but these conditions are well known and discussed carefully. Therefore, I wonder why the Council of State has reopened the whole discussion about the location of a new emergency centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e71	There is probably something to be clarified in the question of the representative of Tajik. First of all, we haven't reopened the process. We have the ambition to realize the emergency centre at Alnabru. The challenge has been that the previous government has had too little overview of the development of the project. It started with an extension of 18000 m2, now it's 32,000 m2, and it's likely to get even larger. The plot area that we've got at Alnabru is approximately. 30 targets. That means it's going to be very crowded, it's going to be expensive and it's going to be harder to realize than what was the starting point. But the government – and I – have a dialogue with the Ministry of Transport to expand the land area of Alnabru. There is a dialogue that we are in the process of doing, which is very fruitful and good, and which I am absolutely sure will produce good results. If we get any larger areas available at Alnabru, Alnabru is the preferred option. But in order not to waste time if this does not resolve on Alnabru, it is important for this government that we have not locked ourselves so that we spend more time than necessary. Therefore, we will consider realistic alternatives if we do not land in Alnabru against assumption – against assumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e82	The moments that state councils here point out in their assessment of Alnabru in Oslo, are moments that are known, that have been discussed. In the proposition made under the previous government, it is repressive in the reference to the work done by State Building that State Building has assessed alternative locations for a new police emergency centre, which has been decided to be located in Alnabru in Oslo – i.e. State Building has done the job that the State Council now says he will start. What I need to know, then, is: What new information does the Council of State think he has about the planned emergency centre at Alnabru, which was not aware of the change of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e87	Some of that was in my previous answer. In addition, as the representative Tajik says, it is correct that there has been a review of many other alternatives – 17 in the number, in fact – and many of them have been rejected. The background to some of them having been rejected is that there has been a demand from the previous government that it be within the borders of the Oslo Police District. That's a requirement that we basically support. The challenge is that if we don't manage to get a larger plot area on Alnabru, the construction costs will be much higher, we'll get less security at the emergency centre, and we can't solve the co-location in the way we originally hoped. That is why I believe that both the representative Tajik and the government agree that it is important that we get to an emergency centre with the functions originally planned and preferably at Alnabru. But this government won't lock itself in a situation where we can't realize what's the main goal, that's a real emergency centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e92	The President will open up three follow-up questions – first from Lene Vågslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e95	Some of the most important things we learned after 22 July were the need for more training and more competence. The Minister of Justice and Security now says that he should look at other alternatives in parallel with the Alnabru process. It is difficult to see how this could be done in a faster way. If a counter-suspect, as the Minister for Justice and Security says, lands on another option, would it not be possible for one to start on scratch with planning and design, and thus could risk delaying a very important process? If the answer is no to that question, will the Minister for Justice and Security guarantee that any other options will not lead to a delay in the new Emergency Response Centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e100	I have to say that I am very pleased with the concern expressed by the representatives of the Workers' Party – in order to be sure to get a Emergency Response Centre up to go as quickly as possible. It's an ambition that this government shares 100 pst. These two processes will go parallel. There is nothing in the processes that is looking at alternative possible locations that will delay the ongoing process on Alnabru. We are – as I mentioned earlier – in good dialogue with the Ministry of Transport and the Railway Agency, under which this plot area is located. There has been a joint meeting at Alnabru between the relevant agencies, and the dialogue is very good. I hope we can do this in the best possible way. Regardless of whether it becomes Alnabru or – against assumption – elsewhere, the government is concerned that this should be realized as quickly as possible, and perhaps faster than the previous government did, if we manage to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e109	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e112	Stand by, we're all busy. I think it's naive to believe that a National Emergency Response Centre alone will ensure that people feel it's a readiness across Norway's country. I am pleased that the Progress Party has said several times, and has called for us to have one national centre – but perhaps more regional. I know that the municipality of Sandne has purchased the Vagle camp, in order to secure the preparedness for the main rescue center, towards oil preparedness, towards health, towards Light and towards the University of Stavanger. What does the Council of State think of anchoring the primary emergency centre in Alnabru, facing the regional emergency tank that the Progress Party has had?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e120	These are two slightly different things. The National Emergency Response Centre shall accommodate the national response capacities and will have good synergies, both in terms of collaboration and other conditions, by co-location. This is why the National Emergency Response Centre is important – not just for the Oslo area, but for the whole country. It is also important with regard to the capacity that we then have to send around the country, with transport aid from, among other things. Defense. In the case of regional emergency centres, it will be part of the work we can see in the police analysis. I have previously invited the entire Stortinget to cooperate on the development and direction of the police analysis – to get the broadest possible political basis for how to organise the police in the future. Then the kind of thinking that would be, for example, The municipality of Sandne has become a spokesman for, becoming part of the assessment on how we can maximise and optimise the use of the resources available to us throughout the rescue and preparedness sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e127	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e130	Before the election, more people in the government parties were asked to stop the wired process, which is currently in progress. Fortunately, that did not happen. One might be tempted to ask if that process might have been changed now. After the election and in the draft budget, the government has, on the other hand, suspended security measures by Oslo District Court. After all, it's a danger that things can be delayed. Is it that the minister thinks we have a good time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e137	No, we have extremely bad time. One of the critical points is that we think the previous government has spent too much time on some things. The emergency network is planned to be completed during 2015 – it will be implemented according to the plan. The emergency centre is not – I want to clarify it again, even though I have done it several times from this pulpit – is about to have a fight about it. But we have to solve the challenges that the government in which Jenny Klinge's party itself participated has left to us. We have very little time, but it's actually quite a lot to do to get these processes on the rails again. The right-hand Party Government is concerned that these processes should be on rails, so that we can manage to keep the propulsion plans. Bad initial processes are processes that are never going to land well. We want to land these projects – with a realistic input and as quickly as possible. We have much worse time than the red-green government had.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e144	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e147	My question also goes to the Minister of Justice and Defence. Making sure our citizens are safe is perhaps the most important job we have as politicians. In recent times, our capital has been marked by a great wave of ransacks. Half of the people in Oslo say in an investigation that they feel insecure when they move outdoors. We've seen brutal ransack, whether it's from 90-year-old ladies, or it's from young teenagers. I am pleased that the government and the Council of State have chosen to take action and have taken urgent action to stop this – more visible police, not least, but also better coordination by facilitating public and volunteers to work to help those who are young criminals. Such waves as we've seen lately, unfortunately, come at even and uneven intervals. It is therefore essential that, in addition to taking immediate action, we also think in the long term – that we prevent for the future, so that it does not happen again. Today, VG presents ten different investigators, all of whom are under 18 years of age. Unfortunately, some of them are minors and thus under the criminal paratrooper. In addition, some of the mother’s stories are also presented. We have to share their despair that their sons have entered the wrong environment, and various things that have led them to become criminals. Here we see the importance of prevention. After the Progress Party came into government, the Council of State has wisely said that there are complex and complex issues related to stopping, for example. It's a wave of ransack. This shows, for example: to protect children, to focus on family policies, to combat ‘drop out’, to get good schools, to fight against drugs, etc. is important. My question is: As I said, the Council of State has taken some immediate action – but what does he want to do to further prevent young people from ending up as criminals, and to prevent those who have begun to run away from repeating the ranks later?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e164	I share the concerns of the representative, Ropstad. The wave we see in Oslo has a lot of serious facets, including. that there are many young offenders, and that there are young or very old victims — vulnerable victims who are viewed as easy targets for serious crime. As the representative himself says, we have taken some immediate action through very good cooperation with the Oslo Police, which has taken this situation very seriously. They're more visible out in the streetscape, and they're more concerned with getting the charges quick. We see that they've taken the challenge. So, of course, it's the way that you don't solve this sweep for all the future by increasing the police effort or putting people in prison. Prevention is a very important area for this government. We have also launched the term ‘early action’ in crime prevention. This is a concept we know from the education sector, where an early detection of who is at risk, and where to contribute by deploying resources early — to get him through a proper schooling. Just the same idea can be used in crime prevention. This is also the foundation of the plan we have in, for example. work on the action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, where we need to find early-entry systems and help break criminal behaviour. In addition, I believe that the juvenile penalty will have a preventative effect by preventing repetition, which is also an important part of this. It is a general challenge that we in Norway are often on the repair page — rather than on the prevention page. This is something this government is taking seriously. All the elements that the representative Ropstad brings forward as important – both within school and within family policies – are important contributions to such a setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e177	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State chooses to be active also on the prevention page. I believe it is important that the Council of State takes a special responsibility also in terms of coordination and coordination. When there are different departments and different state councils that are responsible for the different fields and for the challenges of getting into a criminal track, it is all the more important that you have one in the government that is ‘on’. What I'm concerned about, for example, is the 10 in the VG today, all under 18 years old, who have done their first run. It's far from sure that they're going to keep going, hopefully we'll be able to turn it around. Here's a job: to know more about who's getting crooked is, so that you can get more knowledge about which actions work is also important. There is a drop out at school. What else can we do there? It concerns child protection. They have enough measures to keep young people back, which one would do if one, for example, were the parents of these? There are different jurisdictional issues. My question is: what will the Council of State do to improve coordination and coordination between ministries and state councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e188	Prevention is – as the representative Ropstad said – very widespread, it is taking place between different levels of government, and coordination is important. Now we have a project with this prevention plan for violent extremism and radicalisation in which we are actually implementing exactly what Ropstad is calling for. There are nine departments involved, providing input, jobs and coordinators, while the Ministry of Justice heads the working group to materialise this down also to responsibility positioning and how to implement these actions in practice. One of the challenges facing some action plans in the past is that in the long term, there will be very overall objectives to work with, and a fragmented responsibilities situation. We now have an objective in this action plan to avoid being as specific as possible. If this is a successful project, it is something we can do in other areas too, so we are already planning how to implement that kind of coordination even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e195	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Marie Breek.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e198	Thank you for your answer regarding the ongoing wave of raids in Oslo. Unfortunately, we see that our cities are unsafe from time to time. Now we are inside a serious wave of ransack while we go into the Christmas season. Fighting, filling and violence characterizes the outdoors of the big cities in months before Christmas. Although there has actually been somewhat less nightlife-related violence in recent years, the Christmas season still makes December one of those months of most violent episodes. This trend is confirmed in both Oslo, Stavanger, Trondheim and Tromsø. Does the Minister of Justice share the concern for increased violence crime in the weeks ahead? If so, what will the government do to make cities feel safe for the weeks until Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e204	The question from the representative Breek is very good. It is true, as the representative says, that increased rates of drug use also often lead to increased violence. We see that in this wave, how many of the victims who are not very young or very old are affected when they are exposed to it. They are simply picked out as targets by the raiders, and they are thus seen as some kind of easily accessible goal because the self-defence mechanism might not work as well as the rest. It's obvious that being aware of the contexts here is important. At the same time, I believe that the most important preventive action we can take in order not to develop into more violence and trouble during the Christmas season is that we have a visible and present police force in the cities too, so that we know that the police are fast on the plate if anything happens, and that the reactions come quickly afterwards. Visibility and rapid follow-up by the police are among the measures that are important, while all of us have to think about when we're out in town and not put ourselves in such a situation that we're more exposed than what's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e211	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e214	I'll follow up on something related to the wave we've seen in the past few weeks. We think it is worrying that the Minister of Justice is cutting back on measures taken by the previous government in the area of juvenile punishment. It is important to prevent, act and implement against young criminals quickly, clearly and early, and to ensure a good and firm structure on their daily lives. It was a pleasure to hear that the Minister of Justice is in favour of measures against young people, including prevention, which he has responded to earlier here today. It is therefore strange that this measure is being cut. There are no differences in the timetable between this and the previous government in recruiting those who will work with the juvenile criminals. High interest has been reported in the media in the positions announced to put this measure in place. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to explain: Does it take longer to hire people in a Right Party and Advance Party government, and why is the Council of State cutting off measures against juvenile criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e221	I am extremely happy to have this question, because I have seen in the media that the Workers' Party is trying to make a political game out of the management of the regulations. The budget regulation says that you should not budget with more money than you really think you can use. That's why that money is reduced; because we can't get the employees in time, we can't budget with more money than we've spent, because Storting's budgeting regulations prevent it. It is not, therefore, a political downgrading of the juvenile punishment. It is rather the opposite – the representative Henriksen has come to realize that this government is very concerned about the implementation of the juvenile punishment, and we are also concerned about other measures to help ensure that the juvenile punishment is a good alternative for those who have been harmed to get on a criminal track. I am very pleased that Henriksen gave me the opportunity to reveal the political game I have registered that some in the Workers' Party are trying to do in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e226	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e229	The party of progress is the big party that has created the most myths of immigrants, refugees, minorities and Muslims over time. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has said in connection with the ongoing wave of so-called migration that immigrant parents must be on the track. I agree with the Prime Minister that parts of the key to prevention lie with immigrant parents, minority organisations, Muslim leaders and mosques. Does the Minister of Justice see that by representing the Progress Party, he has a job to do to build confidence in this environment? In the past, we know that the police have less confidence in the immigrant environment – now the Minister of Justice is from the Progress Party. We politicians are probably dependent on trust to be heard. How has the Council of State actually intended to meet this, and what concrete plan does the Council of State have to put confidence in the various minority groups that some of its party colleagues have stigmatised over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e236	I disagree with the premise for the question, I disagree with the fact that the party I represent has behaved in the way that the representative Raja expresses, but I will nevertheless answer the question in a polite manner. This government is concerned that we should have a proper and good dialogue with everyone in this society. This is a government that represents everyone in this society, and it is also vital for crime prevention to have confidence in all environments. I think it is both important and right when the Prime Minister says – as the representative Raja also agrees – that we must also get immigrant parents on the road in terms of dealing with our own children. It's not just about immigrant parents, it's also about everyone else, but in this wave we've seen a combination of the perpetrators that are terribly worrying. We also have to take this seriously without it being charged with stigmatizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e243	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e246	First, I would like to ask the State Council to talk to those young people who feel stigmatized by the statements that have come from the Progress Party. It is the recipient who decides whether or not an opinion hurts, frames and excludes. The second is that the cuts in budget prevention could have been redeployed to other important measures that it would have been possible to implement if this had been undertaken. In addition, we can go to Oslo, the city that has the big problems now, and in which the Progress Party has absolute influence. It has been cut into measures such as: crime prevention among young people, and it is also being cut in urban areas, which is to carry out the important prevention work that we all agree on. Will the Council of State address this issue with the Municipality of Oslo and advise against cutting these important prevention measures, which can prevent crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e253	My constitutional responsibility is quite extensive, but it does not include the budget in the Municipality of Oslo. I think we have to nuance this picture of Oslo a little bit. In fact, there is a serious increase in the number of raids in Oslo, which is very worrying, and which the police take very seriously and have taken action against, but at the same time we see a crime trend in Oslo in other areas that are quite positive, where there is a decline in crime. I think it's a little easier to challenge a government council to address a problem with a municipality that, in its cooperation with the police, is doing a lot of good preventive work. The cooperation between the police in Oslo and the Municipality of Oslo works very well and produces many good results, so I will simply not allow myself to address the somewhat simplified issue I think the representative Andersen is now expressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e260	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e264	I want to address the question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Within the framework of the WTO Agreement, Norway has notified the transition from a krona to a percentage duty for individual customs duties on cheese, beef and lamb with effect from 1 January 2013. This was done because the value of the customs protection had been strongly weighted as this has been linked to the amount of the crown per unit based on the 1990 value and not on the value of the day. The customs protection system, which was sufficient to protect Norwegian interests at the time it was concluded, no longer provides protection for the product types concerned. The WTO Code gives Norway full room to implement the transition from the krona to the percentage duty determined by the management of the 2013 government budget. Has the Minister of Foreign Affairs agreed that the transition from the krona to the percentage of customs duties concerned was carried out within the framework of the WTO Code?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e273	The representative of Navarsete addresses an important and broad area, namely Norway's relationship with the WTO. We are now facing an important round of negotiations in the follow-up to the Doha Round. It's going to be in Bali in December. It now appears that there is an opportunity to agree on a partial package of what was originally in the Doha Round. A consensus on this could lead to millions of new jobs globally. It may also lead to increased value creation in order to promote free trade. In the case of the individual points that the representative of Navarsete raises relating to the transition from a dollar to a percentage point, I have to get back to it. I don't know the simplicity of that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e282	From the answer I received, which was not an answer, I can still conclude that neither can the Foreign Minister clearly say that we are obliged to reverse the so-called customs change. I find it strange that the Foreign Minister answers as he does, as his colleague has now travelled to the EU and signaled to the EU on a unilateral basis that one has ambitions to reverse the transition to the percentage of customs duties for the so-called customs administrations, and with the weakening of the protection of the jobs of all those who contribute both to the production of safe food and to the further processing of Norwegian food. Has the Foreign Minister and the new government intended to make it a form of work to provide concessions in international negotiations without back coverage in the UK?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e291	I ask that the representative Navarsete understand that what is within the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State Helgesen and also the Minister of Agriculture is handled by them. Of course, as regards the ostetoll and this question, I fully agree with the handling that the State Council Helgesen has had of this matter. I think it is important for Norway to send a signal to our main trading partner, the EU, that we are also flexible. We in Norway depend on — more than any other nation, almost — that there is a broad consensus on a free trade policy. Norway wins in open markets. We export a lot, and we import a lot. So having a continuing conflict with the EU related to ostetoll is not in Norway’s interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e298	The President will open up three follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e301	I understand that the Foreign Minister, who is no longer responsible for EU affairs, is not aware of them in detail, and I expect that the new government will not go to Brussels and kneel down for the EU in areas where we know, as an EU agricultural commissioner said a year ago, that one should turn every stone. Now it's done without any crime found. Within the WTO, the customs profile is such today that it is only 30 pst. of the EU's non-tariff agricultural products, with a total of 45 pst. of the Norwegian agricultural products are duty-free. During the current rounds of negotiations, can the Foreign Minister guarantee that import protection will be protected and maintained? We know that is of great importance to Norway. If we compare the EU's profile with Norway's profile within the WTO, Norway will be much better off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e308	As the representative Hareide also knows, there are many shades on this issue. Something is related to Norwegian import protection, but in a developmental policy context, which has also been strongly focused on by the representative Hareide, it is important to allow developing countries and middle-income countries to export what they are good at. There is no doubt that in the international debate and in the run-up to the Bali meeting, Norway is one of the world's highest import protection countries, and we also have large export subsidies, in fact on Norwegian agricultural products to other countries. We must then see Norwegian import protection and export subsidies in a broad context, in which we assess the Norwegian agricultural interests against the opportunities and interests of many middle-income countries and developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e315	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e318	First, I would like to say that we do not spend one penny on the state budget for export subsidies in Norway – just to have said it first. Let's take a little thought experiment – that we've got a new government in France. The first thing the French government should do in its despair of the previous one was to go to Brussels and say, 'Excuse me, excuse me!' The previous government stood up for French interests, it stood up for French food culture, it stood up for the French food industry, but I'm sorry, it was wrong, it was unwise for the French government to stand up for the French food industry. Is it conceivable? The answer to that, of course, is no. But in Norway we get a new government, and the first thing it does is to travel to Brussels to say: Excuse us for having a government that used the freedom of action we had – that was very regrettable! Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs know of a single other government in another country that has travelled to Brussels and complained of having stood up for its industry, for its interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e327	I believe that the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, is aware that the unilateral Norwegian measures relating to ostetoll have also been very controversial in Norway. We know that we are dependent on having a robust EEA agreement. 50 pst. of our exports to the EU. One element in this is, of course, Norwegian agricultural interests linked to the ostetoll, but it is also true that if this unilateral Norwegian measure, which has been very controversial, may call into question the robustness of the whole EEA Agreement, Norway has played its cards very poorly. It is in this context that the statements of the Council of State for Helgesen must be seen in Brussels yesterday. It is that the ostetoll and a few other cases have led to a not insignificant friction in the relationship with the EU. And the introduction of this ostetoll has been controversial. It should not come as a surprise that a Right Party government is now going through this customs very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e332	Knut Storberget - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e336	As you know, the government has now declared to the EU the aim of changing the customs regime for cheese and meat. I am not going to plague the Foreign Minister with the realities of that debate, but it is clear that it is of great importance – not only to the farmers in Norway, but also to the food industry. So we're talking about a food chain with over 100,000 jobs. It's a big domestic policy question we have to get back to. Since we have the Foreign Minister in Stortinget, I would like to ask a very simple question based on the round we have now had on the customs regime – especially on the questions of the Christian People's Party. After all, we have a broad practice in Norway to gather around a broad majority on our position in foreign policy. This is an important foreign policy issue. Has the government made sure that at least a majority in the Grand Duchy is in place before going to Brussels and declaring that the customs regime for cheese and meat should be changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e343	The President will recall that this is a question that falls under the constitutional responsibility of the European Minister of Foreign Affairs, so that the Foreign Minister may choose whether to answer it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e346	Thank you for the timely reference. I just have a comment on the question the representative is raising, to gather a broad majority. I also believe the representative is aware that the cheesetoll and meat business did not gather a broad majority in this Chamber in spring. There was also a broad societal debate on this in Norway, and it is a fact that if we insist on keeping the ostetoll that the previous government introduced, there are also many other potentially negative foreign policy implications for Norway related to the robustness of the EEA Agreement. So those things have to be weighed up against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e351	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e354	Unlike others here, I must say that I am relatively surprised if we now have a foreign minister who will not answer important European questions. When we had a Minister for Development, the Foreign Minister was responsible for the whole world, even though we had a Minister for Development. I think it would be very difficult to be a foreign minister without being responsible for Europe, which is still a relatively important part of the world, I would say. There was an urgent call for a meeting of the European Selection Board on Friday, where the first round was unthemed. We got to know the theme shortly before. More games weren't there. There came, among other things. Ostetoll up. Then the European Minister has done his thing in Brussels for us to make changes, without the changes being made to the Great Britain and dealing with them here. Is there a new practice that the government will now have in its foreign policy, that one will first notify Brussels of changes and then come to the Storting with them – perhaps later?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e365	First of all, the concern that I might not have to answer any questions related to something that is not my constitutional responsibility. I have now answered – I think it might be the sixth question about this – so I don't think you should overemphasize that concern. When it comes to consultation with the United Kingdom on important foreign policy issues, we have a good practice in Norway. It is also known that in the matters for which I have been responsible, among other things. related to the destruction of chemical weapons and similar, Stortinget has been consulted in the manner to be used. I am also very sure that it has happened through the various meetings of the European Committee, and the government naturally emphasises that we should have the necessary relationship with Stortinget in these matters as they are then about the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e372	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e375	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Yesterday, many breathed out, after the intelligence service denied monitoring of Norwegian citizens' mobile use. The last words may not have been said in this case, but what it shows is that people and businesses do not find themselves in ever more monitoring. The exposure to privacy is growing, and so do we in Europe. We see that many countries in Europe – perhaps especially Germany – take this challenge very seriously, and I have to say that I am really a little worried when our own Prime Minister is just asking people to relax. Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister in this Chamber said that the government would review the measures not implemented — she then referred to the Privacy Commission — and consider what action should be taken, if any. I don't think it's very offensive on behalf of privacy, but the most important thing is, of course, what the government does, not what it says. That's why I'm interested in hearing what the Council of State has been planning to do in its field. The field of justice is an area of constant threat to privacy, and a Minister of Justice must balance the need for privacy with the need for security for individuals. So my question is, what will the Council of State do not just to put privacy on the political agenda, but also to ensure that Norwegian citizens do not become more, but less, monitored?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e384	This is a very comprehensive question, and by the time available, I think I should limit myself a little. The e-service is located under the Ministry of Defence. That means I can't answer questions about it. Privacy issues are also not directly within the Ministry of Justice, but I understand the concern of the representative. The government is concerned with the balance of the monitoring press – not only from the secret services, but also with the ability to store and record information in the private sector that is gradually growing up in the technological world we live today. It has happened very very quickly, and perhaps we are unable on the legislative side to adapt sufficiently to the new pressure that is. At the same time, I have great confidence – if I are to limit myself a little to the secret services – in the way we organize this in Norway, where we have a strong EOS selection appointed by the Stortinget, which controls the work the secret services do on behalf of the Storting. It is a control mechanism that both gives us a stronger legitimacy to the activities of the secret services, and also gives the Storting the opportunity to follow up any findings of the EOS Committee. I mean, it's a very good way to solve it. With regard to the claim of the Prime Minister's statement of complacency, I think it was related to the fact that the newspaper ran a relatively large look today at what might well be called a bit of a wrong premise. It is also important when discussing data protection issues, that we do not allow single events, which are not fully understood, the danger of farms with them. It is important to take these issues seriously, and then you also have to know what the issues are actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e395	The last Minister of Justice was here, I agree very much, and I thank you for the answer. The Minister of Justice himself was concerned that this is about technology, and when we talk about technological infrastructure, it is under the responsibility of the Minister of Transport, so I want him to answer my follow-up question. The Minister for Transport has a considerable responsibility to facilitate technological infrastructure that allows individuals to take responsibility for their privacy. Today, almost all Norwegian Internet traffic travel via Sweden. In its government platform, the government says that it will take up the Swedish law of the FRA with the Swedish authorities – a law that allows almost all Norwegian Internet traffic to be monitored by the authority of another country. So my question is this: does the government consider providing technological solutions to prevent all Norwegian Internet traffic from going through Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e406	I thank you for the question. We are very concerned about the problem that was raised by the representative. The Prime Minister has already addressed the issue with the Swedish Prime Minister. I'm going to Sweden myself in December and talk to the Swedish Minister of Infrastructure, and then this is going to be the topic. We will then ensure that Norwegian users of the Internet are not monitored or can be monitored by Swedish authorities. There's natural reasons why it's like that. It's about where the infrastructure is built, where the machines are. But once we have concluded such an agreement, which has been in force under many governments, we must ensure that it respects the interests and rights of Norwegian citizens. We'll work for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e414	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e417	When the Prime Minister was here in oral question time, she stated that she was not concerned that the collection of data would lead to surveillance by foreign powers, and she then showed that such monitoring would be illegal. Recently, we have seen that, in part, there is widespread illegal surveillance of European citizens. I would therefore like to repeat the question to the Minister for Transport: Is the Minister concerned that any introduction of the DLD will facilitate illegal surveillance by foreign countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e424	The President is somewhat unsure whether this question should be answered by the Minister for Transport or the Minister for Justice. It's the Minister of Transport. The President then gives the floor to the Council of State, Mr Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e429	We are concerned that there have been signs that there has been illegal surveillance. It's in the word that it's illegal, that means it's not going to happen. It's one of the things we have to work hard on when we're going to implement the Data Storage Directive that was adopted in Stortinget last time. We have, as I said, contacted the Swedish authorities. We have to make sure that different agencies in the Norwegian government system get an overview of what is actually happening, where the threat comes from, and how we can prevent it. There were several batches in Stortinget that were concerned about the Data Storage Directive, precisely because of the fear of data storage and the ability of others to use it. So it has to be part of the debate that Stortinget might take up again. We have to implement what the majority of the population has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e436	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e439	My question also goes to the Minister for Transport. I noticed that when we dealt with the Data Storage Directive in Stortinget, Solvik-Olsen had a personal, strong and good commitment to privacy. In recent months, new perspectives have been seen in the debate on monitoring. I understand what the Minister for Transport has said in the media, that there should be no rematch on the Data Storage Directive on the ground that there is a basic agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party. At the same time, when you look at the observations that have been made, the leaks that have occurred, and the great turmoil that is surrounding monitoring and privacy, do the Council not see the need for a review and a greater debate around the Data Storage Directive in the light of the new perspectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e446	That there are many things you might be worried about when you see the newspaper essays, there's no doubt about it. But a government should be very careful to reverse a decision made by the Storting. If the Storting is dissatisfied with the decisions it has taken, they have the full opportunity to reverse the decision. It should not be the government that takes such initiatives, at least not a minority government that we are. But what we see now, and we closely follow from the government team, is for example. the current act of the Court of Justice of the European Union, where this has been the subject of an appeal. We will closely monitor the assessments and conclusions that come from there when we are going to implement this. But, as I said, I also encourage the Storting to take a debate in this room on a should reverse the decision, and not ask the government to do so, because it would be a little unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e455	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e458	Under the motto ‘All shall join’ my follow-up question goes to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can come forward. From this summer on, Norway has in a number of ways raised the question of the allegations of American surveillance of citizens in different countries with Americans at office, with political leadership in the Ministry of Justice, and that was the theme when the Nordic Prime Ministers met President Obama. The same thing other countries have done. What has been shown in retrospect is that for a number of other countries, it is, after all, so that some of the first clarifications were not fully elucidating, to put it that way. That's why my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Tok the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised this question with the US Minister for Foreign Affairs when he met a short time ago? And if not, will he take it up with the US Secretary of State or other relevant authorities now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e467	With the background of the revelations that have been in summer and the last year related to monitoring – which are claims, which is better documented – it was natural for me when I was in the United States and among others. Mr Kerry, Minister for Foreign Affairs, met with a general Norwegian concern about monitoring and the US policy in this area. Now it's like the United States is one of our very best and closest allies, and we've also strongly stressed that it's an unwritten rule that allies don't spy on allies. What Kerry said when I brought this up was that this is something the United States is taking very seriously. He also pointed out that President Obama and he have discussed this, and that the United States is going to follow this up with clear action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e472	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e476	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Over the past six months, we have received a number of very serious complaints and revelations related to surveillance by US authorities against a number of European countries. The reason why this is so serious is that the core task of a state is to guarantee the inhabitants freedom and privacy. Traditionally, we're used to one of the state's core tasks is to ensure the security of human beings, among others. through a defense. What's part of it is surveillance. What we also know through recent Norwegian history is that monitoring has been used against our own citizens, but also that our own allies are monitoring people in other countries. Some of the things that have come out seem to be pretty well documented statements; other things, fortunately, are not. Now I believe that the Minister of Justice, together with his colleagues, has had some time to make a clear impression of what monitoring is taking place from the leading powers against Norwegian citizens, and what knowledge we have of it. My question is therefore to the Minister of Justice: can the Minister of Justice guarantee that we have no knowledge that American authorities are illegally monitoring Norwegian citizens in any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e485	My constitutional responsibility is confined to the activities of PST, and parts of the activities of NSM, so my answer must be given in that perspective, while the Minister of Defence is responsible for the defence's work against attacks from, among other things. foreign powers. In general, I can answer very briefly the question asked by the representative. It hasn't, as far as we know, done anything like that, but it's absolutely impossible for me to guarantee it in any way. But there is no doubt that, as a government, we have a conscious relationship to protect ourselves from surveillance. This, of course, applies to the whole population, and that is the communication that we have between us in the country. I can only say that the government has a very strong pressure and a strong focus on this issue, but giving guarantees is rarely wise by a government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e492	Of course, I am aware of the constitutional divisions, but I am also aware that the Minister of Justice is responsible for ensuring the security and freedom of Norwegian citizens in this area, and that there is very close cooperation between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence, including the government's security selection, on such issues. So I assume that the government collects sets and those responsible for the width of these issues have an overview of it. I am therefore pleased with the answer that the Council of State says so clearly that he does not know that there is illegal surveillance. Then is my follow-up question: how will the Minister of Justice now proceed to assume that he has no knowledge of it, to assure the Storting in the next round that there is no illegal surveillance of Norwegian citizens from American authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e499	As I mention, it is very difficult to get into such a position that we can know what kind of business other foreign powers are doing. We have a cyberdefense for which the Ministry of Defence is responsible. They do the job they can within this. We have our ways of dealing with this. What I can say is that my constitutional responsibility concerns some of the EOS services, and we have a system in Norway for the Norwegian services that ensures that they are subject to democratic control, so that the services are within the legal framework set by this house. I think that's what I have to limit myself to responding to, because no matter how many times you ask for a guarantee that I will know something about other countries' activities aimed at Norway, such a guarantee could not be given. What I can guarantee is that we have a strong focus on this, that we are working hard on these issues in the government. However, it is not an unknown issue that other countries operate in both Norway and other countries that are of such a nature as we have seen in the media. But as I said, I can't provide any guarantees for the intelligence activities of other countries. I ask you to understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e508	The President opens two follow-up questions – first the Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e511	Then I would like to follow up with a question to the Minister for Transport. An important part of the issues we are discussing here is the danger of storing large amounts of data about who we are in contact with and where we are when we are in contact with other people. There is, of course, a storage to which the majority of the Biggest have joined themselves under the EU Data Storage Directive. The Progress Party and SV have shared their views on it. The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, before he became the Council of State, had a commendable commitment. On both sides of the political scale, a rematch was promised on the Data Storage Directive before the elections. It was the Progress Party that got the chance. I notice that the government is awaiting the court hearing to be in the EU on the directive, but was somewhat concerned when the Council of State replied to Ms Nybø earlier in the Questionnaire. My question is: Is it more than a postponement – will the government make a real review of the Data Storage Directive once it has been finalised in the Court of Justice of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e520	Firstly, DLD was adopted under the Stoltenberg government where SV was a part, even though SV voted against the Stortinget. So there's nothing that this government has decided on alone. The party of progress voted against. The monitoring we're talking about now happened under the Stoltenberg government, so if you're worried, you should also be concerned when you put yourself in government. But we're taking the issue very seriously. We follow this closely — by following what is happening in the EU, by talking to the Swedish authorities about e-mails and that kind of thing, and by talking to the authorities of other countries to get insurance. This is not a government that is re-committing decisions made in Stortinget. That would have been unheard of. It's possible the red-greens thought so because they had the majority behind them in the Storting, but in normal constitutional drawing, it's actually the Storing making decisions, and the government following up. Therefore, my call for SV: If a wish to re-fight decisions was made when they themselves were in and had a majority, they should make proposals in the Stortinget and not ask the government to re-fight the government system. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e529	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e532	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This monitoring is, of course, a broad area. A lot of government councils are involved. When we're going to claim our right away, it's also important what we do at home and for our own residents. When Stortinget dealt with the Data Storage Directive in 2011, it was a majority to get it through quickly. Since that time, we have seen that Norway has not become a haven for criminals, the police both investigate and solve crime, and technological developments are about to emerge from the directive. There is a basis for a new discussion in Stortinget. But my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Are there any international obligations that Norway is bound by, which obliges us to register and store information about the communication of its citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e541	This was a big and broad question. First of all, with the Data Storage Directive: it was a broad majority in Stortinget that joined it, and I would assume that it is firm. As far as information is concerned and cyberspace is concerned, it is important to me that this discussion also claws down important human rights and important rights relating to privacy. This is something that Norway is working with, among others. in the UN, now that we are working with Mexico, Germany and Brazil, looking at a UN resolution that underlines both human rights and privacy in a broad context. It could then set up some important posts related to what you can retrieve and store information.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e550	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e554	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Basically, we have to say that there are two pictures of Norway out there. One is of a small, rich country that is very proud of itself. The second is of a small, rich and solidarity country that takes responsibility for conflict resolution, environmental negotiations and does an important job in terms of assistance. When Bill Gates was in Norway last week, I asked him, is it really so important that we give exactly 1 pst? for assistance? Then he gave me the same answer as representatives of a lot of relief organisations: if Norway cuts the 1 pst goal, it sends a signal to other countries: we have managed through the financial crisis – we also cut. Then it'll be okay for other countries to cut as well. There is one thing that is clear: the Foreign Minister has now been given responsibility for development policy, and the first thing he does is cut to that end. Fortunately, this has been corrected by the Left and Christian People's Party. There is a majority of the Stortingen for 1 p.m., and polls also show that there is a large majority of the population for this. My question is: should this political theater continue for the next four years – that the government is proposing cutbacks, and then the Christian People's Party and the Left will negotiate up to 1 pst.? Would it strengthen the voice of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in international negotiations if he could bramlessly say that in Norway both the previous government and the current government felt that the 1 pst target is important? My question is: does the Foreign Minister support the objective of 1 pst. to go to help?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e567	First, I would be allowed to say that I share Huitfeldt's strong and burning commitment to development in general and development policy. As far as development is concerned, many elements are important. One of the most important is development assistance. Another top priority element from developing countries is trade policy. It was up here earlier today, where it was presented as the end of the world was imminent if Norway were to reduce somewhat at extraordinary rates of duty linked to cheese. I think that when you think through a forward-looking development policy, you have to think a lot of elements at once. But I do not disagree with the fact that a high level of assistance, an assistance designed to achieve important results, is helping to achieve an ambitious target of offensive poverty reduction in the years to come. This government's starting point is that we need to support a work to eliminate all extreme poverty by 2030. In the original proposal that the government put forward in the supplementary proposal, it's scheduled to spend a billion dollars. kr more in 2014 than in the 2013 current budget for development assistance. It will be difficult to produce as a cut. Then we have a discussion in Norway related to 1 pst. of GNI or 0,99 pst. of GNI. For me, it's the results of development aid and it's on a high level that counts the most. Now it's right, as the representative also stresses, that with the budgetary unity that has been in Stortinget with the Left and Christian People's Party, we will now use 1 pst. of GNI in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e580	The Secretary of State is wrong. The target of 1 pst. is not a discussion just in Norway. There is a discussion about this in very many countries. While Børge Brende's sister party in Sweden can say that in Sweden the parties agree to 1 pst. the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Norway is so unclear that when I ask if the aid target is firm, he answers with cheese. My question is whether the Foreign Minister is not weakened by this, because he cannot now say in international negotiations, in meetings with other countries, that in Norway we stand together on the goal of 1 pst. For this is not a discussion only in Norway; it is a discussion in very many countries. So more countries can take responsibility for increasing aid to the poor part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e587	Over the last few years, I have been in a situation where I have been able to follow the international development debate, and as I experience it, there has been a great deal of focus on results – and not least on looking at development policy in a broad context. I know that there are many votes internationally that say that trade policy can be as important as development aid. But a high level of Norwegian development aid, which is also on the government platform, between the Right and the Advance Party, is something that I am a strong supporter of. I don't think we're going to have an unfurnished debate about what was in the original government proposal. So it was added up to 1 billion. kr more to next year in relation to this year. There was broad agreement between the Advancement Party and the Right. I think it might have been stressed that this has now contributed to an even wider agreement in Norway on assistance. And now it's also like using 1 pst. until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e596	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e599	We all agree that development is something more than assistance, but I am still concerned about hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs almost devalue the assistance, because assistance means a lot to achieve the UN's Millennium Goal – not least by 2030. Norway enjoys very great respect in the United Nations system, in humanitarian organisations, in the world community and in countries south of it for its integrity in development policy. Sources show that Norway, by the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs, was cut off in the UN food programme in relation to what the previous government had put into the budget – with the humanitarian situation we now have in border areas around Syria and in other areas of disaster in the south. My question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel that his authority and respect for him in the United Nations system and abroad are weakened because of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e608	The short answer to that is no. I also have to say that I think it's trying to draw a picture here that doesn't match the terrain. I have to try to draw a map. What the government has done is that it has made some re-priorities within the aid budget. So for example, we're going to spend close to 200 million. more on education and development in relation to the previous government. This is also linked to strengthening the private sector in developing countries. In the case of the World Food Programme, we're spending as much on the next year as we spent this year on it, so there I don't think there should be any cause for concern. If that's how I said it, is perceived as a de minimisisation of the importance of development aid, I just have to stress that I think development aid is very important, as I also said, in order to achieve the goal of eliminating all extreme poverty in 2030. But I also tried to find out that there are other elements here where Norway may not be as good as in terms of the development aid objective itself, for example. in the field of trade policy. So we have to see it wide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e619	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e622	I'm, not unexpectedly, very happy with the unity we've got with 1 pst. for assistance. I also have to say that when it concerns the position of the Foreign Minister, I believe that the way Norway has handled the situation in the Philippines, by being out early, is just supporting what the United Nations has asked us to do. It's got something special to do with it. The Foreign Minister emphasises performance requirements, and we are some of them that we need performance requirements against assistance. But there is also a conflict within this, because, when we are so concerned with performance requirements, we help to attract assistance towards a simplification, that visible results in the short term are premiered over the more complicated work on peace and reconciliation – for example – or on capacity building. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about that problem – that is, when it comes to building results against the more complicated work, what is difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e631	First, I want to make it clear that I am very pleased with the cooperation we have had with the Left and Christian People's Party in Stortinget – also about the design of the development budget. Norway, together with Luxembourg, now gives the most to development in the world. Of course, this must be linked to other policies we pursue, such as: in the field of trade, if we really want to be listened to globally. I hope that will also be present in the Grand Ring in the future. I also very much agree with what Mr Hareide has to say, that we must not now simplify this. See, for example: on peace and reconciliation, which is one of the most important areas to avoid future poverty. If there's a conflict, and there's war in an area, 30 years of GDP growth will disappear in a few months. If Norway can help prevent this, it is the best investment we can make in development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e638	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e642	The UN's food program is all in the front line when disasters occur, which we have now seen in the Philippines. One travels with food and clean water. Climate change means that we can expect more natural disasters in the future. We also know that more food will be needed, while the same climate change will make it harder to produce more food. In this year's budget proposal, the government cuts $25 million. kr in the UN food programme. My questions are: what is the background for the government to cut this down when they released the year's budget? Does a reduced need appear, and if so still? If the answer is no, will the government change course and take care of the enormous needs when the next year's aid budget is to be created?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e649	I fully agree with the representative that food and food production are an important part of a future-oriented development policy, but, as I said in the previous answer, we spend as much money in 2014 as we spend in 2013, linked to the UN Food Programme. So it's a little bit difficult to represent it as a cut. The government has done, as I also stressed, that we have invested some 200 million. kr more on girls and education. We also believe that education is a prerequisite for development. Norway has gone ahead, for example: Now in the Philippines, where there is a huge humanitarian disaster, we have gone out with an appeal to other countries to follow. For the time being, Norway has met 10 pst. of the UN emergency appeal, and in that appeal, we are giving considerable amounts of emergency food aid to many in the Philippines who are now lacking food.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e658	Burd Vegar Solhjell – to the last follow-up question in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e661	Both the quality and the arrangements of the assistance and the whole development policy are interesting and important, and I'm excited and curious about the government coming there. But I also believe the government must accept that the debate on 1 pst. and quantity is important, not only because quality costs, but also because there is an urgent need for more money to pursue good development policies in the world, and we are one of the richest countries in the world. We can compare what David Cameron did to what Erna Solberg did. When Cameron entered a major economic crisis, he had to cut off all posts, but screened health and assistance. What did Erna Solberg do? She could spend money on every post, but she cut in aid. I didn't think Right comes particularly well out of comparison with its Swedish and British colleagues. That is why my question is to the Foreign Minister – he cannot foresee the next budget, but he can say what he wants to work for, if it is important to him: Will the Foreign Minister work for it still to be 1 pst. in the budget from the government, or has he agreed that it is not so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e670	What I want to work for is to have a high level of Norwegian assistance in the future, as the government platform also says. To present it as a cut when we reached 2014 in the government's additional proposition to spend 1 billion. kr more for assistance than we did in 2013, I have a little difficulty understanding that you are getting to do it. Then, of course, you can have a discussion about whether there should be even more to development and assistance, and I have great respect for that. I am also very pleased, as I said to the representative Hareide, with the agreement that it was in Stortinget with the Christian People's Party and the Left that additional means of development and assistance should be brought up. We're going to do that, and I'm going to make sure that the funds are spent in a sensible and forward-looking way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e675	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e687	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has been withdrawn. Questions 15, 16, 17 and 18, from the representatives Kjersti Toppe, Martin Henriksen, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Anders Tyvand, respectively, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e704	‘The Norwegian reservation for the third EU postal directive came because it could have serious consequences for postal services as a central part of Norwegian infrastructure and because it could be negative for the rights of Norwegian workers. Will the Council of State carry out a thorough investigation into the implications of the introduction of this Directive for such a central part of the Norwegian infrastructure as letter mail and for the rights of Norwegian workers before the possible withdrawal of the reservation against the Directive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e716	I would argue that the reason for a reservation against the Postal Directive has nothing to do with the content, but with the lack of faith in competition by the previous government. It's something other than the statements made on the question. This government has said that we want to incorporate the third EU postal directive into the EEA Agreement. That's because we think it'll provide better postal services to the citizens than if we didn't, and that's because the postal market is developing. The biggest threat to postal services today is not the EU Postal Directive, but it is the use of electronic mail, which reduces postal volumes significantly. This has been investigated many times, even under the previous government. That is why I do not see the need for another investigation just because SV is against competition. But what this government has said is to be the basis of a new postal law to be promoted for the Stortinget, is that we want unit portfolios on shipments from households, so that there won't be a change, and one will ensure Saturday distribution of newspapers – which is therefore time-consuming, it's important that they come in the day – where one has no other solutions to it. So for ordinary people, the introduction of the Postal Directive means that one still gets the newspapers like a caregiver. This will mean that you do not get bills on Saturdays, as a person would like to have. But the distribution of posts on Saturdays is very small compared to the other days of the week and has fallen sharply in recent years, so there are opportunities for large savings for taxpayers and for residents in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e725	I would generally recommend the Council of State to go into this kind of discussion with respect for the fact that you can have different assessments of what gives you a good deal. I do not share the government's belief that competition is best in all sectors. We have seen in other countries that have implemented postal liberalisation that there have been particularly two consequences – one related to the pay and employment conditions of postal staff, another related to postal services in those parts of a country where it is initially unprofitable to do so. One concern has always been that if you put off competition, you will get commercial drivers of the services that can pay off, but not for those parts of the Post that do not pay off. Can the Council of State guarantee that the State will not end up with a solid extra bill when it is no longer possible to finance unprofitable postal services with profits from profitable services to the same extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e732	Today, the government uses money through the Post to purchase services in areas where it is not commercially viable to deliver mail. It will also continue with the new postal law – that is the government’s intention. Then it's worth mentioning that if the representative had read some of the investigations under the red-green government, he would have seen that one there looked at the pay level of postal services in those countries where there has been competitive outsourcing, and that's not a clear conclusion. Where wages and salaries were already market-based, there was no change in salary levels. In those areas where the post office had very high wages compared to the rest of the market, there was a decrease in pay levels. The assessments that the red-green government had access to, and that we have also received, are that the post office in Norway has competitive wages. There is little reason to believe that a person does not have a reduction or an increase in salary as a result of the competitive outsourcing. I share the concern, but it is unfounded when you look at the matter as it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e737	There is little doubt that the experience of outsourcing in Norway until now has been that wage and working conditions are often under pressure, and if the Council of State shares the concern, it will be one of the things that it would be natural to look into before the government makes a decision. We can only note that the new government has put forward a procedure now in several cases where one comes to Brussels before coming to the Stortinget with its conclusions. It worries me. I would like to challenge the Council of State at the next time in this matter, and when the Storting will be presented to both the government's assessments of the consequences of a yes to the directive and the changes that the government might propose to follow up the Helgesen Government's promise now in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e742	I would remind you that this government's policy on the government platform is not presented to the European Union. It is submitted to the Norwegian people, which is submitted to Stortinget. So the Storting is informed first. The fact that we also inform the EU when the EEA Councils travel there is not unnatural, but that does not mean that they have been informed first. So that's the wrong thing to say. We have announced that there will be a postal code to Stortinget. It's probably coming to spring, maybe before, and then the Storting will deal with this and go through all of these matters. I am concerned that we should have good postal services for the Norwegian people, that we should maintain the unit portfolio, and that one should also have a Saturday newspaper assignment. That's what's important for people's postal services. We need to ensure that districts are relocated, so this is not going to be a city-to-country matter. That there will be changes is quite obvious. We believe that it strengthens the competitive entity in the Post Office. That they're positive for it is the signal we get. Then we're going to do this in a real way. That's why the Biggest makes the decisions, not the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e753	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The capacity of the current T-Bahn tunnel through Oslo Centre is becoming a major obstacle to the development of public transport in the capital. On 4 September this year, Erna Solberg informed that a new government would build a new T-Bahn tunnel through Oslo Centre. In the Government Declaration to the Right and the Advance Party, a promise of 50 pst is made. State investment grants to major public transport solutions in large cities. How will the Council of State address the work on the new T-Bahn tunnel based on the promises of new funding?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e762	I would like to thank the representative for the question of an important topic. There are major challenges on the infrastructure side in many places in the country. The red-greens have helped increase the appropriations. That's good, but it's far from enough to meet the needs that are. Not least in the Oslo region is one of these challenges, with steady traffic into the city and out of town in the rush hour. There's a lot of freight going through the city, and there's a bottleneck in the rail and T-track system through the Oslo Centre. Together with the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County Municipality, the Ministry of Transport has asked the Railway Agency, the State Road Administration and the Router to jointly conduct a so-called concept selection investigation on increased transport capacity towards and through Oslo. The KVU is the first step before the formal planning process is initiated for large-scale transport projects both in the planning systems of the state and the municipality of Oslo. The mandate points out that the development of the collective system in Oslo must be seen both in a context and as a common system. Solutions for new tunnels for both T-Bahn and rail will be assessed, including stations with good access between the various modes of transport. The extent to which there are gains from coordination in planning and deployment of T-Bahn and rail in Oslo will be considered. It is therefore important to ensure that both the State and the county council and the municipality work together. This work shall be coordinated by the Railway Agency. This investigation adds up to completion in the first half of 2015 – so it is a quite comprehensive thing. And then there will be an external quality assurance, which is in line with the procedures that you have adopted. It is launched in the second half of 2015. Once that job is done, the government, the municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Akershu will conclude whether we will provide leadership for the further planned work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e773	I would like to thank you for your answer and also for your positive views. This is an urgent matter, really, because the capacity of the tunnel from Majorstua to Tøen starts to be blown up already. So that will determine the ambitions we can have in the collective development of the Oslo and Oslo areas in the years to come. Some of the progress described by the Council of State is determined by legislation on how to investigate and plan development projects. But it is clear that the signal that came from Erna Solberg in the election campaign that the state will go in with 50 pst. direct State grants give a completely different momentum, a completely different possibility, to a change of pace in this project. So far, it's only been 500 million. kr in order to investigate it in Oslo-packet 3 from 2017. It's important that the ambition you're now expressing is also concrete, and then my supplementary question is, in what form you're going to get back to the 50 pst. direct State grants?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e784	First, yes, I share the impatience shown by the representative of Bohemia. This is a work that one should have started on a long, long time ago, just because it takes time. We work actively in the government, both in the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Local Affairs and many other places, to reduce time on planning processes, precisely because spending two years on investigations seems very, very long. There is also a great potential for getting more goods onto the railway if the railway capacity is increased through the city. This government in the platform has made it possible for us to give about 50 pst. investment aid where appropriate. This is a project that I would say appears to be well suited for it. This leads to a stronger progress than any previous government has made. But there is still a work that takes time, unless we are able to significantly streamline planning processes. We will promote a case for Stortinget when this is available, and then one will also decide how much the government share should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e791	I thank you for that. It is also important to clarify the ambition. In what appears to be unclear that it is necessary to assess the Railway Tunnel/T-Rail Tunnel through Oslo Centre, it is clear that with the plan that Erna Solberg spoke about in the election campaign, which is also the one that has been favored in Oslo, the inner T-banning, the new metro in Oslo Centre, will provide walking distance to new residential areas. It shall cross Grünerløkka and St. Hanshaugen from Tøen and across to Majorstua, and large workplaces and new residential areas shall have a walking distance to the T-Bahn. Then you get both increased capacity through the center and can bring more audience close to the T-Bahn. With regard to ambition, Erna Solberg even talked about stations and stuff in these areas of the election campaign. It is then necessary to give a signal to the Railway Works that the option of having each of their tunnels has to be explored.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e800	The advantages of one or more tunnels under Oslo are many and quite obvious. It's important that we see it in a context, so that one if one builds a new railway tunnel, can connect it to the T-Bahn, so that people can choose the road to Oslo and know that they can easily get on with the T-Bahn. Because it's not like everyone who travels to Oslo by train necessarily works right next to the train station. Should it be attractive to travel collectively, there must be seamless transitions without much anticipation. If not, the car becomes too good an alternative, and then a car still chooses, especially with the advantages of the electric car. This government already announced in the election campaign that Fornebubanen was an important part, precisely because one looks at the housing and labour market in a whole. Similarly, an additional metropolitan tunnel under Oslo will help to improve communication solutions in and through Oslo, thus being an important investment in the housing situation in this city and in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e811	On the UN Day for Children, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the following: ‘Numbers of European organisations working with children estimate that one million children disappear from Europe every year. The UN Human Trafficking Organization, the UN Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking, writes in its report that 1.2 million children are exposed to human trafficking every year. If this is to be slowed down and stopped, countries must cooperate with obligators and care for the children is the most important. What initiatives will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take to contribute internationally to finding more children and stopping the backers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e820	Child dissipation is very serious. A child who disappears is one child too much. The people smuggled through Africa and the Mediterranean are subjected to extreme stresses. Many of them are victims of human trafficking. Children are extra vulnerable and more vulnerable than adults. These children are entitled to protection. These are very serious violations of children's rights. Persons buying sex and child pornography assist with the falsification of passports and travel documents or participate in transactions and criminal profit are involved in supporting a very cynical industry. The government will give high priority to the work on trafficking in human beings. So far, the previous government's action plan on trafficking in human beings has been the basis for Norwegian efforts. In the future, the government will place great emphasis on building up knowledge of international criminal networks. The aim is to put in place effective measures against the backers. The approach will be broad: build on the work of a global initiative against organised crime. At the same time, we will step up efforts against new and global security threats, such as organised crime and terrorism. Norway has a separate responsibility to work against trafficking in human beings and child abuse. This responsibility is of the utmost importance to the government. In our global work, we see that organized criminals buy protection or exemption from criminal prosecution in weak countries where it can be purchased. In the Sahel region, we know that smuggling people, drugs and weapons finance uprisings and terror. International work against trafficking in human beings and organised crime is therefore aimed at finding victims, but equally at detecting global criminal networks and backers. It is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that heads the work nationally and is responsible for the Schengen cooperation and participation in Frontex. We rely on a wide range of tools and control bodies to identify victims and take more backers. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has used considerable resources to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings internationally. We are doing this through committed cooperation within the UN and the Council of Europe. Norway has contributed to ensuring an effective monitoring mechanism for the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings and is working for a similar mechanism in the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e837	I thank you for the answer, and thank you for taking this seriously by the Foreign Minister. The Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to part of international work, including: in the Council of Europe through the GRETA expert group, which is now up and running, but also needs some mechanisms. And sail if it's up and going, you can't just say that this is a problem that's not there. Some of the problems with these international conventions are that the Member States are not obliged or checked in the cards on what they are actually doing, and that they give priority to these measures when they are going to fight for budgets, or when they are going to decide what they are going to spend resources on. That is why my specific question regarding the follow-up to the global instrument against trafficking in human beings, which is the Palermo Protocol, where Norway's view has been that such global monitoring mechanisms should be put in place, with the UN countries that have signed the Protocol: what does the Minister of Foreign Affairs do specifically to put this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e846	This is a work that we are following, as the previous government started – not least the action plan and to put in place these kinds of monitoring mechanisms. But, as the representative also says, not even all countries have ratified this agreement. It is incredibly important that all countries, even where the needs are perhaps the greatest, become part of the international acquis. However, the enforcement of what is contained in the Protocol, that it is actually done, and has the resources assumed, are essential. I will then, together with the representative and others who are very concerned about this, think through the various instruments that we can use, as well as what may be in the action plan, and what the previous government did in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e853	The first response to me, as well as the action plan, points out that in the case of trafficking in human beings with children, it is mainly minors with foreign origin who have come to our country or to other European countries, who are the most vulnerable. As a result, how we deal with the issue of underage lone refugees in Europe and Norway is very important in order to prevent trafficking in human beings. It is a politically difficult issue, with immigration policy considerations very often taking precedence over children's rights and protection against, for example, children. trafficking in human beings. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that the way in which both Norway and other European countries deal with the issue of single minor asylum seekers is in danger of endangering many of these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e860	What we've been concerned about here, and what was the premise for this question, is related to child disappearances and also child abuse. There is also a clear role for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the follow-up to the action plan. With regard to wider issues of immigration policy and the treatment of single minor asylum seekers, it is a responsibility under the Ministry of Justice. But when it comes to values, treating children with dignity, and giving children proper treatment in Norway, I share the representative’s value base.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e873	Especially as a fisherman, I would like to welcome the Council of State to Stortinget and wish you the best of luck with the job and tasks! ‘Fischers and the fishing industry are increasingly recording that the king crab in the quota area, from North Cape and eastwards, has too little meat fill to achieve maximum quality and selling price. Does the Council agree with the fishermen’s claims that there is too little food and digestion from the royal crab that poses these problems for this new species, and does the Council see other solutions to this mentioned and growing problem than the increase in the total quota?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e882	I would like to thank Mr Ingreichsen for his warm welcome. The king crab’s entrance into Norwegian sea areas has been both fun and troublesome. It has been demonstrated that the royal crab has significant effects on the bottom fauna, especially in areas of high density. Deforestation is likely to result in a reduction in stocks over time; this is the classic development when a new species establishes itself in areas with good nutritional access during the start-up phase. Gradually, a balance between food availability and stock size is likely to be established. According to the Marine Research Institute, however, there is little evidence that the crab’s meat fill has changed since the population became numerous in East Finland. A study from 2002/2003 showed that the average filling rate varied widely throughout the year, which at the time was hardly driven by the available industry. The variation may be density-dependent to some extent, but also related to the crab’s shell change. The King crab seems to be very adaptable and feeds on what is available. Gastro-intestinal studies indicate that large crabs are increasingly also eating small royal crabs. This may help to maintain the condition of the crab, but will also contribute to a decline in population size. Last year's quota of king crabs east of North Cape has been raised, taking into account the size of the catchable part of the population — that is, individuals above the minimum. The quotas have been so high that the crabs have been harvested mainly continuously, as they have grown above the minimum. Setting allowances higher than that available from catchable crabs has little to do. In 201l, the minimum size of royal crabs was reduced from 137 to 130 mm shield length. As a result, a greater proportion of the total population is now included in what is defined as a catchable stock. It is the youngest classes of the year – i.e. small crabs under the minimum measure – that are the most numerous. A significant increase in the total quota requires a further minimum reduction as long as recruitment is reasonably stable. However, small crabs have a much lower selling price than large royal crabs, which must also be taken into account when assessing profitability. The annual total quotas of royal crabs are fixed and the minimum level is also assessed annually. The year of regulation of royal crabs runs from 1 August to 31 July. The Marine Research Institute will present a new stock report with recommendations in December and the Ministry will be able to decide in the new year on the size of the total quota and the minimum target for royal crabs in the coming regulatory year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e897	Thanks for the answer. During last year's king crab fishing we caught on my boat approx. 12 tons to get 2.3 tons. The rest we raised overboard because it wasn't good enough meat filling and quality. This is the clear view of the fishermen and the fishing industry, which we are aware of the fact that the marine research institute does not share. The King crab does not jump between Norway and Russia, it is only in our Norwegian zone. Is the Council of State open to a system or system which is also heard and which takes into account the observations made by fishermen in the sea when fixing quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e906	Yes, in terms of this species, we will also listen to the recordings that come from the fishermen. I want to emphasize that we in the government platform have said that we want to introduce free capture of king crabs outside the commercial zone. In the last two years, we have managed to achieve a more targeted capture of king crabs in the areas west of North Cape, among others. through the lease-in of catching vessels and through the price premium for female crabs and small crabs. According to the Marine Research Institute, free fishing has helped to limit the spread. So I want to say that it's now important that we evaluate the king crab management. The Directorate of Fisheries has conducted a hearing earlier this year and will carry out a thorough review of the experience so far gained with the Institute of Marine Research. That evaluation will be completed well before the next season, starting on 1 August 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e915	High-cost Norway exports live royal crabs, air cargo to highly paid markets in Asia. How can and will the Council of State organise the capture so that the industry can continue to export such a resource, which helps to place seafood as the second largest export industry in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e920	Let there be no doubt that this government has great ambitions on behalf of the marine food industry and wants to increase value creation. In the further work we are going to be looking at regulation and what kind of fishing arrangements we are going to have for this crab, this will be part of our assessments, how we for this fisheries can contribute to increased value creation and, of course, could also increase exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e929	‘Linefanga fish have challenged better quality and offer better prices in the market. This is supported, among other things. of research from Nofima. Based on the market situation and the high costs of line operation, the Stoltenberg government proposed to reintroduce the linear approach by 18 million. kr, to stimulate more line caught fish of the best quality. The government is now proposing to remove this suggestion. Why won't the government support this quality promotion?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e936	The new government is definitely concerned with measures that can improve the quality of all fish landed in Norway. The Lineage Grant was a scheme concluded in 2004. I see it as the lineage supplement is a operating grant for a specific tool that can give unfortunate incentives to a part of the industry. Such a grant may prevent the necessary awareness of the management of catches in general by not altering the underlying factors affecting the profitability and quality of the industry. Quality work is about how fish are treated en route from the sea to the consumer, where all joints must take their share of the responsibility for maintaining quality. The lineage premium was in due course replaced by an Agnquota scheme to ensure the cheapest possible bait for fishermen. This year, the Agnquota scheme represents a cost saving for fishermen of approx. 15.5 million. kr. In previous evaluations carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the socio-economic impact of the allocation of own quantities of bait quotas in relation to a linearity grant is assessed to be the same. The difference is that in one scheme, funds are taken from the State budget. In the second, the economic operators themselves contribute to the scheme. If we are to stimulate more line-based fish, I think it is more right to stick to the bait quota system than to reintroduce a subsidy scheme that will present both administrative and control challenges by implementing and controlling it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e949	I thank you for the answer, but I'm left with the impression that on the rhetorical altar the quality is to be sacrificed. That quality fish is not always paid as a quality fish is a familiar thing. That the liner, which deliberately delivers the best quality, wears heavily financially, that e.g. Norway Seafoods has begun to say no to net fishing because of poor quality, and that Norwegian fish abroad have had a bad reputation in part, the Minister for Fisheries should take over and not devalue. The answer is to cut market measures to produce Norwegian fish abroad and among others. remove this linear gradient. A higher agent quota system, as I understood the budget, shall not be replaced. So I ask again: What kind of measures does the Minister intend to come with to promote quality, at the best for the Norwegian consumer as well as for the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e956	Much is being done in this area to increase the quality of the fish landed, including at the following stages, on the way out to countries in the distant world and to all consumers who currently eat Norwegian fish. I want to challenge the opposition and the representative Heggø in this way: if this grant was so important, one might wonder that the Stoltenberg government has been sitting for eight years and failed to introduce it. Then I also want to add that I have just visited Nofima, to which the Council of State referred in its question. It turns out that for all types of fishing gear, whether by trawl, trawl or other gear, there is indeed a clear potential for improvement in how to handle the fish before it is landed in the boat. So here we need to have a broad approach and not focus on one tool in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e965	We have to stick to the representative Heggø.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e971	I understand that the minister would like to return as a magnificent representative, since she called me the Council of State. I thank you for that. But I'm not, because that's what you are. But I would also like to remind the Minister for Fisheries that it was Right Svein Ludvigsen who took away the linear edge. And it's kind of strange to be sorry about Stoltenberg because he didn't reintroduce what Right himself took away. The crisis packages of the various industries that the Stoltenberg government has come with have come in just in time and in the right amount. It shows history. Now the market situation is critical in whitefish and in line fishing in particular, and therefore we have come up with proposals to reintroduce the linear approach. But does the Minister for Fisheries not see the need for short-term measures to promote quality? Is it just a long term look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e980	The representative of Heggø indicated that it was Svein Ludvigsen and the Bondevik II Government that removed this grant. This was done in the sense that we wanted the fishing industry to be a non-subsidized industry. We also believe that the industry has all the conditions to stand on its own. That is why we would rather focus resources on research actions, and then we have retained some kind of action within the proposed budget to help us get the fish allocated, that it is possible for the smallest fleet to deliver. So when it comes to quality, it's all about how to deal with the fish taken, regardless of what kind of fleet you're talking about. Nofima has done research on this and is in very good dialogue with the fleet, which may indicate that we need to move quickly and without having to go the path of state subsidies, to get fishermen to handle the fish better, and thus to be better paid for it. And that might be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e998	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1012	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1019	‘All patients in need of complex or long-term coordinated specialist health services shall be appointed coordinator under the Special Health Act. Nevertheless, there are still messages that do not happen in the past. Patients with severe and chronic illness do not receive a patient-responsible doctor or other permanent health care professional to whom they can relate. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that this will be a real patient offer in all hospitals and in all health regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1026	Patients with severe diseases are in a vulnerable and demanding situation. Having a regular doctor to deal with is therefore of great importance to the experience of being cared for. A fixed doctor who follows up the patient also means a lot to the quality and the whole of the medical supply. Per Fugelli is one of those who, on the basis of his experience as a cancer patient, has called for a fixed medical system in hospitals for seriously ill patients, and he has also made a settlement with what he calls the one-time doctors. For more than ten years we have had a code that is supposed to take care of the need for a permanent doctor in a hospital. The regulation on a patient-responsible doctor came in 2001, and it was replaced on 1 January 2012 by a new section 2-5(a) of the Special Health Service Act. It states that a coordinator should be appointed for patients in need of long-term and coordinated services and that the coordinator should be a doctor. Although healthcare companies have been obliged to ensure that serious sick patients are a permanent physician, the scheme does not work as intended. This impression is confirmed by feedback that I have received from many patients. The previous government sent before the summer to consult a proposal to remove the legal requirement that specialist healthcare coordinator should be a doctor. This proposal would, in my view, weaken the offer of seriously ill patients. I have therefore stopped this process. The government prioritises its efforts to improve patients’ and relatives’ rights. Therefore, we will introduce a permanent contact doctor in the specialist healthcare service for seriously ill patients. Changes in the Patient and User Rights Act were dealt with in the Stortinget in June of this year, in Prop. 118 L. At that time, the opposition at that time suggested that it should not only be the duty of healthcare companies to set up a patient coordinator, but the individual patient should also be entitled to do so. I still believe this. I will therefore come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with suggestions on how we can ensure that seriously ill patients get a regular doctor to deal with in the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1041	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is true that patients who have a serious illness, such as: cancer, must be met by a system that also assures them trust and security in the situation in which they are. They cannot then experience a system with many corpses — health professionals — to stick to, and no one takes responsibility for them in this situation. It has been, as I said, 13 years since the first time it was said in the prescription that patients are entitled to a patient-responsible doctor – this has been to a patient coordinator. It has also been considered to turn it into a patient contact, which we now belong to the Minister of Health to tell him to stop. - That's it. My point is that in any case this is a responsibility for the businesses today. Too many years have passed. Will the Minister of Health now instruct the leaders to give this to all patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1050	As the representative is aware, it was my favorite hobby as head of the Health and Care Committee to ask health companies if they followed up this legal requirement. The answer to that was often very elusive — and many flattering glances — but the question is going to be repeated, and the demands are going to be repeated. But it is also important to stop the work the previous government started to weaken this scheme further. In the work we are now going to do to strengthen the system, we will also look at how it is possible to ensure that the seriously ill patients actually get a permanent doctor to deal with, while at the same time ensuring that the coordinator function for all patients can be performed by professional groups other than doctors. Then we think we can get a more appropriate system and expand this to not only be an obligation for businesses, but also a right for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1057	Thank you. I think the minister says it should also become a right, but it's kind of a weakness when there's already a statutory obligation. When not followed up, one must convert it to a patient's right. It is quite clear from the preparatory work of the Health and Welfare Act what to do in order to make this work work at system level: one must have a routine that ensures who is to be a coordinator in the departments, how the patient should be informed, and how the function should last if this coordinator – the person – is gone. My question – again – is: What will the Minister of Health do concretely? Now he no longer needs to drive his hobby to ask, now he is actually the top responsible for businesses and can choose to instruct them in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1066	Of course, I am going to be very clear to the companies that I expect them to comply with the laws and regulations that big business and government have adopted. It's a matter of course to my mind. When Stortinget has chosen to make this system so important that it has been enshrined in the law and regulation, I believe it must be followed up. But I also want to do something in addition to this, namely stop the work that the previous government started. They spent eight years constantly weakening this scheme, instead of making sure it was introduced. We need to work with businesses to ensure that the scheme is implemented and strengthened – and not least strengthen patients’ rights in this context. I think it would also be an advantage in this area if this became not only an obligation for the companies, but also a right for the individual patient. I am very happy that much indicates that the government will also have the Senterpartie with them in this work. It's very positive, because there the Center Party achieved little when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1079	‘Unfortunately, the debate on the possibility of reservation for permanent residents has become a one-sided abortion debate. When we look into the future, both for Norway and internationally, we see that there are soon no limits to what is technically possible in medicine, but where the question becomes whether this is ethically correct. Does the Council of States see the need to raise the debate on the possibility of reservation to a greater debate on value, where, as a nation, we put some stabbestones and take the debate on ethics and should go ahead of the technique?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1086	I would like to thank you for this important question. Technological developments in medicine are going very fast. The biotechnology area is an area characterised by rapid medical development and many ethical issues. A number of medicines and diagnostic tools are developed and produced using biotechnological methods. New treatments based on biotechnology research, e.g. the use of stem cells is becoming increasingly more and more clinical. Genetic studies are in a new era. Now the entire human genetic material can be examined in a few days and much cheaper than before. Through analysis is an important research method that enables us to analyse effectively the relationship between genes and disease and to investigate heritable causes of disease. Such research is expected to have a significant impact on the development towards more personalised medical treatment. This is likely to result in treatment that is more effective, safer and with fewer side effects for the individual. At the same time, the development raises demanding issues related to the privacy of individuals — issues related to what family and others should be allowed to know. Due to the rapid technological development in the field of biotechnology and the ethical and social issues facing us by the development, the Biotechnology Act has its own authorisation provisions. These shall contribute to government governance and enable the evaluation of professional, social and not least ethical impacts before new methods are put into effect. The task of biotechnology is to discuss fundamental societal and ethical issues related to biotechnology. An evaluation in 2012 showed that the term fulfils the function of debate-making in a good way. Of course, it is not that technology should control and ethics should be set aside. New technologies must be applied in an ethically sound manner. The size has asked for an evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. In this process, I want to involve the subject of biotechnology both as a consultant and not least as a debater. The evaluation will give rise to a broad debate on the societal and ethical implications of new technologies. New technologies also raise questions about how to prioritize healthcare resources. The previous government appointed a sample to assess how best to meet current health priority challenges. The priority committee will deliver its report in September next year. Otherwise, I would also like to stress that the Storting itself can raise a debate on the ethical consequences of new technology, and create meeting places for discussion on the relationship between politics and science.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1109	I thank you for the answer, but I want to promise it even higher than just dealing with the Biotechnology Act – which is a very important thing. If we look at the story, we see that things were done that we today are happy that some hoist flags for and said that they were not on. For example, when we talk about lobotomying patients in psychiatry, or when we talk about coercion sterilization of people you wouldn't want to be fertilized, someone said that this wasn't what they were saying, because they had a conscience. What about the future? How will the Council of State raise the debate in the future so that we have room for discussion about what values we should have in the Norwegian health system – and should the conscience be part of this? I'm going to help lift the debate into the Storting. I'll be the first to say that. But we also need a government council that goes ahead and says that we will discuss values in the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1120	I'm very pleased with that challenge, because this is one of the themes that I think it's important to discuss, and which I also think is very rewarding and interesting to be involved in discussing. I can promise that as the Council of State, I will contribute to these discussions, participate in asking some of the questions and also have some reflections on difficult issues. We are in continuous contact with health care. The representative was about some of the questions that have been raised historically. It is clear that, for example: Our research ethics committees are discussing this type of issue all the way. This government has also said that we should involve patients and users much more in the design of our entire healthcare system. History has also told us many times that it is often the patients and users who give notice as we move out towards the limit of what is ethically sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1127	I'm glad the Council of State will go ahead. At the same time, those who violate what is the norm out there are seen as special, even in health. Conscience is a result of values, faith, mission and not least culture. It'll be pointless, I think, if we start to demand that people not be whole and take that cultural heritage and that conscience into their work as health professionals. Everyone has their professional integrity, and they should. But when they're going to work, they also have to take with them the inheritance they have. I know from many years of work in an emergency department that it has been like this that we have had to ask others to help us, because there is something behind it that makes us unable to do that job with the patient, and not to transfer our own attitudes, we have gone and said that others have to help us. Then I think, how will the Council of State see to it that we can maintain the integrity of health professionals, both professionally and humanly, so that conscience has a place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1134	Now the representative is approaching the question of the reservation option, and I have always been clear in that case that it represents two important issues that are balanced against each other. One is a reservation option for health professionals – which means that we facilitate what is at least my clear wish: that we have health professionals in Norway who have an independent ethical reflection on their own business and do not experience that they are on autopilot for what is decided at any time – up to the consideration of the individual patient’s fundamental rights to receive health care. That's also why I believe that the agreement the government has with the Christian People's Party at this point opens up in order to take care of just both of those reasons. That is what I think is positive with that agreement, and that is also why I support the right to reserve that is in the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1146	‘A high proportion of doctors are employed in temporary positions in hospitals. The Government has awaited the Supreme Court judgment. The representative Bent Höie said in an interpellation debate on 28 May 2010 that ‘the Minister of Health has a clear, independent responsibility to address this matter [...] and it is not a responsibility that can possibly only be transferred to other departments’. The Council of State Höie said in Dagens Medisin on 7 November 2013: ‘The Minister of Labour is responsible’. Can the Council of State now clarify which Council of State is responsible for improving the conditions of employment of hospital doctors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1153	If you read the article in Dagens Medisin, it is clear that as Minister of Health, I strongly emphasise that doctors in specialisation – so-called LIS doctors – are a very important part of the specialist healthcare service. I would also like to underline that here in Stortinget. Nor should there be any doubt that I am responsible for the specialist health service. The background to the article is that the Supreme Court recently passed a judgment stating that the temporary employment of LIS doctors is not contrary to the Working Environment Act. The heading of the article refers to the Ministry of Labour that is responsible for the Law on Working Environment, and thus to the Minister of Labour who is responsible for the possible handling of questions related to changes to this Act. The State, as the owner of the hospitals, has a decisive responsibility for the specialist health service, but I would like to stress that the State has no central responsibility for the employer for the health workers, nor is it a party to the collective bargaining agreements that regulate the working conditions. Furthermore, it is clear from the article that the government’s objective is to reduce the use of temporary employment in hospitals. As owner, the State has for several years asked that hospitals have a responsible employer policy, that the general rule be permanent full-time jobs, and that one restricts the use of temporary jobs. At the business meeting in January 2011, provision was made for the organisation of permanent posts for the LIS doctors. This must be done in such a way as to meet the needs of society for efficient training courses, a good distribution between specialists and a good geographical distribution of doctors. This is a need that is crucial for a functioning specialist health service. Specter and the Lege Association have come up with a model that meets these needs and will offer permanent employment to the LIS doctors. What remains, and which there is disagreement between the Medical Association and Specter, is whether the model will require changes to the doctor's collective agreement. I am aware that there will be a process on this issue in the context of wage settlement in 2014. As previously pointed out, the State is not a party to this collective bargaining agreement. However, I hope and believe that the parties to the agreement – The Medical Association and Specter – will agree on this point. Such agreement will lead to more LIS doctors being offered permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1166	I thank you for your answer. One of the reasons why I have asked the Council of State the question is that when you listen to an excellent response today, it is in stark contrast to the current representative of the Storing and the head of the Health and Care Committee, Bent Höie, who spoke about the matter in Stortinget. I wonder what exactly has changed since Höie spoke about the matter before the election, which means that this is no longer a matter that he can solve now – as Minister of Health and Top Responsible –. The matter has now been clarified in the legal system, as the Council of State points out quite correctly. What has changed since he spoke in this rather bombastic way, which makes it impossible for the Minister of Health now to intervene or to help find a solution? I would like to challenge the Minister of Health if he, in the months leading up to him, for example. The business meetings to be held in January will sit down with the parties. I respect that this is part of the tariff negotiations that will go to spring, but it would have been very good if one could have come up with a reunited sketch with the parties on this issue, which is very important to many, and which the current Minister of Health – in his former work here in Stortingen – has had very strong opinions that the Minister of Health is going to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1177	There is then reason to remember that the interpellation was held in 2010. My challenge to the Minister of Health was at the time to take responsibility as the owner of the hospitals for starting this process. There I have to say that it did the Minister of Health after my interpellation in 2010. Substantial work was started in regional health enterprises, such as As a result, the job that the representative now asks me to start is actually done by his own government. The representative should have information about that. But there is a sketch for the solution in this case, which is agreed between the Specter and the Medical Association. What remains is a question of whether this is relevant to the collective agreement between the Medical Association and Specter. I would think that the Workers' Party had reacted very strongly to it if a government council that did not have employers' responsibility had put itself as a mediator in a tariff question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1184	I agree with that, of course. But we don't have to go to 2010. We can go to a little bit closer history, for example. to Stavanger Aftenblad in the summer of 2011, where the then head of the Health Committee Bent Höie states: ‘I know about young hospital doctors who fear that if they say no to extra guards, it will be harder for them to get permanent jobs. It can lead to unwarranted work and a risk to patient safety.’ So this is in 2011. While the trial is ongoing in the courts, Bent Höie believes that there is a risk to patient safety – that is, quite healthy characteristics of what is going on. Does the Council of State think that this is still the situation? And in that case, how can he now say and give the impression that this is the Minister of Labour's responsibility when he himself has his finger on the button?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1194	I just have to stress that I fully agree with myself in Stavanger AFTENblad from 2011. That's why I still have a strong commitment to this matter, and that at the business meeting I will stress – like the previous health ministers – that government policy is that there should be permanent posts and that the use of temporary posts should be restricted. Because I believe that the extensive use of temporary jobs related to medical professionals, which is an essential part of our specialist healthcare, poses a risk to patient safety. That is why I have a very clear desire to remove the last obstacle on the way to finding a solution here, after the previous health minister did exactly what I called for through an interpellation debate in the Stortinget in 2010 – prepared everything that the owner would provide for a solution to this. Now there's one obstacle left, and that's that there's going to be an agreement between the parties to a tariff question. I have great expectations that the basis for reaching an agreement – when the judgment has now passed – is better than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1199	Let's move on to the next question. Now the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen is currently not present – he is a bit present at the committee meeting – so we go on and see if the next ones who are listed with questions are present, and then we'd rather come back to question 11. - There comes Serigstad Valen. Then we go back to question 11 and try to keep the order we've set up. Is Serigstad Valen ready to answer his question?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1204	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1209	That's him, and we go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1216	I just have to regret that I'm a little late for the meeting, but we also operate and provide a financial position, and that's also important. But one equally important thing is our working life, and I want to tell the Minister of Labour that I hope he doesn't take it badly that I was a few seconds ago. «The Council of State stated in Stortinget on 13 November: «[...] about 60 p.m. of those who take up a temporary post, enter into a permanent post within two years. This shows that the way we have done it in Norway is good in terms of getting more people into the labour market." Of course, so many people who have been temporarily employed get a regular job, are associated with strong Norwegian legal requirements for permanent employment. How does the Council of State feel that more temporary staff should be provided in permanent employment when the requirement for permanent employment is proposed at the same time weakened?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1225	Let me first thank you for the question and forgive Serigstad Valen that he is also doing the final job of the Financial Committee. So it's important for me to establish that the government's main principle is fixed employment. This is the general rule of Norwegian working life, and it will also be the general rule under this government. It is true that I showed that much is good in the Norwegian labour market, that it is good when as many as about 60 pst. of those starting a temporary employment, have moved to a permanent post within two years. In the last Wednesday Question Time, I asked the question, ‘Why not look at the possibility of softening it up, so that more young people, people with disabilities and also immigrants get an arena to try to get into the world of work?’ In Norway, employment is very high compared to other European and Nordic countries. However, as I have said before, the government has high ambitions in getting more of those outside the labour market into the workplace. I believe that it is possible to give more access to the labour market by allowing more people to try out targeted changes in the legislation. That's what we want to be concerned about when we're going to start designing changes to the Working Environment Act. We believe that we, together with the parties, should be able to find changes to the legislation on, among others. temporary employment, which may give the effect that more people are being shown, that more people are getting to work. We believe that this can in the long run provide a valuable subsidy on the labour market, not a negative effect on fixed-term employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1238	The whole idea of the Right and Advance Party for temporary employment is based on the idea that more temporary employment itself leads to more, for example: disabled people, young people and immigrants, have to try out – as the Council of State says – and get to work, but there is no clear link there. The main consequence of temporary employment is that more people in Norwegian employment are going to be employed temporarily, more people are going to have less predictability, fewer are going to have loans, etc. And it's not that a deterioration in the law will only include those who need to get into the labour market and try; it will lead to many who would otherwise get a steady job, not getting more. So if fixed employment is a general rule for the government, why should you weaken that principle in the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1245	First of all, we do not weaken the law. We're going to change the threshold, so that it'll be easier for those who are out of work today to get into the world of work. Both the 2004 study by FAFO, Atypical Work, and several Norwegian studies that have evaluated international research reports, show that an embellishment of temporary employment — and we are talking about an embellishment, to lower the threshold of the doorstep — will provide the opportunity for more people to enter the workplace, both more young people, more with migrant backgrounds and more with disability. So it's not like that that fewer people will get loans, because one thing that at least is 100 pst. is that those who are outside the labour market, those who do not have a job, are at least not given the opportunity to borrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1252	Then my follow-up question is to the Council of State: how can the Council of State know that those who then receive temporary employment do not become a permanent B team in the labour market? How can you be so sure that they get a regular job later, when the reason we have so many in permanent work in Norway is that the law is what it is today? And the second is: how can the Council of State assure Norwegian workers that such a decoration, as he calls it – or dilution, as I would call it – will not lead to many who would otherwise have a safe life in working life in a permanent position, in the future having to invest in temporary work and still insecurity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1257	How can the Council of State know? At least I can support two clear research reports, two studies. One is the FAFO report, which I referred to in my previous answer, where for two years people who went in temporary jobs were followed. 60 pst. they entered into a permanent position in the course of the two years. The Labour Force Survey for the SSB shows that two thirds of the data from which the data are derived — the employment report of the previous government, which was presented in the Stortinget and dealt with during the previous ageing period — mean that two thirds of these ended up in permanent jobs. It shows that it is possible to obtain a transition through temporary employment towards permanent jobs. So I would also like to remind Serigstad Valen that, in the context of the job strategy, the previous government made a change in the autumn of 2012, which applies to the current budgetary period, where the previous government also said that they want to make it easier to use temporary employment related to the people who are on redundancy pay, in order to get them to work faster and better. So the former government must have believed that this will be on the lower threshold.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1268	‘In the Grand Council on 13 November, the Council of State said, ‘[...] it is both natural and reasonable to have equal living adjustments for all pensioners, who ensure that one does not end up in a situation where one who works until he is 67 years old, with exactly the same assumptions as one who has worked part-time and is partially unemployed, comes out worse as an old-age pensioner than one who has been unemployed. I do not think that appeals are being made for more older people to be able to stand longer in the labour market [...]» Does the Council of State mean that you can only order disability benefits from Nav and that today's legislation opens up a free choice?»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1275	Disadvantage is not an option for the individual to choose freely. As the representative is aware, the vast majority of those who become disability pensioners, have a previous period of sick pay and redundancy pay. Within both of these schemes, the beneficiary is confronted with clear activity requirements, with a view to returning to work. Both employers and the State of Employment and Welfare have a clear follow-up responsibility. The schemes have different working capacity requirements. It is not the health problems themselves that give entitlement to disability pensions, but the way in which the disease has affected the individual’s ability to income. Today's disability pension requires a permanent reduction in income by at least 50 pst. The size has adopted a pension reform with a live-age adjustment. In the opinion of the government, it is reasonable that this should also apply to persons who come from disability benefits. The government wants to stimulate as much work as possible. Levage adjustment will be an instrument in this context. The active period following the age of 60 has shown a steady increase over recent years and the incidence of old age has declined. However, it remains below 30 pst. by the 66-year-olds and about 20 pst. of the 67-year-olds registered with employment. Compensating for the whole or part of the life-age adjustment for disabled persons would be unreasonable compared to others who, for various reasons, do not have the power to work beyond the age of 67. In my opinion, it is reasonable that the same rules on living age adjustment apply to all. About 40 pst. of the new old-age pensioners are today the result of disability pensions. If disabled persons are exempted or protected from the age adjustment, they may be at risk of losing an old age pension, compared to those who do not have disability benefit. We know little about how the active will adapt to a new age pension in the years to come. If it turns out that economically active workers choose to stay at work significantly longer when the effect of life expectancy adjustment is increasing, it would also be natural to look at the effects related to it when evaluating the pension reform during this ageing period. An evaluation is already underpinned by a decision on the size of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1290	I hear that the Council of State now has an overview of the requirements that are being made to grant a disability benefit. They are strict, and it often takes several years. Nevertheless, in his answer, he continues to argue as if life-age adjustment could be used as an instrument against disability and disease – for that is what we are talking about. The point is that these are people who cannot themselves choose to work any longer, precisely because they meet the strict requirements that the Council of State has just stood up and hit, and because after years of nine-time review, they have come to terms with the fact that they cannot stand in the labour market and zero the impact of the lifestyle adjustment. That is why it indicates, I believe, that the Council of State continues to argue as if it is possible for someone to choose disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1297	To be quite clear about it: Even those who today come from disability and become recipients of an old age pension are life-adjusted, but you have a protective system for them. It's not like they're not being life-adjusted at all. We also know that the Stortinget has decided that we will implement a new disability pension reform on 1 January 2015. It will be an under-pension reform such as: Consider that the combination of disability benefits and work is more important. The size, including the representative Karin Andersen and I signed, when I was a representative, was involved in making the rules on how the disability benefit should be curtailed against the income. This means that a person on disability during periods can combine his/her working capacity with income from work and that he/she is paid to remain in the labour market. In this way, a disability benefit will be much more likely to compensate for lifestyle adjustment. Then, in my head and in the government's head, it would be fair and fair to have a debureaucratic system, and to have a similar life-style adjustment regime for all pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1304	I record that the Council of State and the Government believe it is fair that those who are disabled, and who may have been there for the rest of their lives, and who may never have had any opportunity to have income alongside, get full shortening for life, such as those of us who are lucky, healthy and can work all their lives. I'm recording that we deeply disagree with that. SV is very happy that we got a half-screening of the lifestyle adjustment for those who come from disability and into retirement, precisely because the new pension scheme, with the lifestyle adjustment, to which I have previously reported that the Progress Party has been quite critical, affects people who can't work anymore. Yes, the Progress Party has even considered that the adjustment in the standard of living should be eliminated for all, because it was unfair. What is the reason why the Progress Party believes that it is fair for the sickest, but good for the freshest?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1311	I think we should be clear that we're talking about two very different things here. What Andersen is talking about now are the young people who have gone wrong their whole lives. As I said in my first answer, we're going to carry out an evaluation during this period and look at how to secure the weakest a worthy income, which this government is very concerned about. We're going to find good solutions to that. But the cases I'm talking about here are those that get dissatisfied after they've been in work. For these, it would be right and fair to have the same lifestyle adjustment. That's right, as Andersen's representative says: the Progress Party was anti-life-age adjustment. We were the only party that opposed the pension reform, but it was the representative Andersen and her government that introduced the lifestyle adjustment, and it would be very alarming if I, as the Council of State, had not complied with the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1326	‘In reply to me dated 6 November 2013 on open customer lists, the Prime Minister wrote: ‘I understand that the public wants to see this type of information.’ Various measures, changes in laws, changes in practices in the industry or others may contribute to the understanding of the Prime Minister. Will the Council of State and the Government propose or contribute to measures to ensure the transparency of customer lists to policy-makers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1333	I have received the honourable assignment from the Prime Minister to answer this question. The Public Health Act generally ensures a high level of transparency of the file to public bodies. There is a general consensus that, in some cases, exceptions to transparency are necessary. A special feature here is information which is subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. whereas it is necessary to exempt such information from transparency and infringements of the obligation of professional secrecy may give rise to penalties or service operations; The Administrative Act has general rules on professional secrecy, in the interests of private interests, including professional secrecy, which would be of competitive importance in the interests of the data concerned. The rules of the Administrative Act on professional secrecy are based on thorough and comprehensive assessments. It is necessary to consider in detail whether the individual information is covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. For customer relationships in the communications industry, this may vary, inter alia: by whom the customer is. I refer here to the general leadership of the Department of Justice in the opinion of 6 November 2013. Such a concrete assessment may help to ensure that no exemptions from transparency are made to a greater extent than is necessary to protect legitimate private interests. For the sake of order, I also mention that the Civil Ombudsman currently has to deal with the question of transparency in two specific customer lists. I do not see it as particularly relevant to change the rules on professional secrecy in the administrative law as a result of a desire for increased transparency in one particular industry. The rules of the Administrative Act have a much wider scope. I would otherwise remind you that several professional groups have regulated the confidentiality of information relating to their customer or client relationships. This applies, for example: lawyers and health professionals. Some such more widespread professional secrecy does not apply in the communications industry. Any change of practice in specific industries, in terms of transparency, must be addressed by the industry itself. I would like to encourage the greatest possible degree of transparency for myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1352	I thank you for the answer, which was essentially a review of today's legislation, which was very precise as far as I could judge. I understand the government's satisfaction with today's situation and I don't want to make any changes. Of course, I am aware that there is a difference between the legal obligation to pay and the obligation to pay a fee initiated by the individual company. But my follow-up question is the following: Does this mean that the government is well pleased with today's situation when it concerns openness about customer lists from e.g. The PR business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1359	I have dealt with the legal framework resulting from the Administrative Act. That's what I can relate to. It is up to the Storting whether it wants to amend the law in this area or otherwise introduce new regulations or rules for politicians. I record that the question to the representative goes on customer lists to politicians, which is a much broader concept than just members of the government. This is an initiative that the representative himself must be able to take in Stortinget, and then Stortinget will be able to assess these questions. The Government will not take any initiative to amend the general provisions of the Administrative Act on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1364	I thank you again for the answer, and I will follow the call on behalf of SV to submit such proposals to Stortinget. I only have one last question. Why does the Prime Minister not want to answer the question himself? Why would she leave it to the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1371	I have been asked to answer that question, and that question has been answered. The assessments behind the Prime Minister's position on this matter, I am not aware of the fact that I have received this assignment. I guess that's because the background to the question, among other things. may be attributed to the opinion delivered by the Legal Service on a question previously put to the Prime Minister by the representative, Mr Solhjell, who has been answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1380	‘The agricultural and forestry operational reviews are published by the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research. The farm surveys examine economic conditions in which an important part of the family’s total income comes from agriculture. The latest accounting figures, from 2011, include 857 individual uses. Reimbursement of family labour and equity per year The annual work is $200. Do the Council of State agree that the operational reviews show the economic realities of well-driving farms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1387	It is true that the 2011 operational reviews show an average salary for the family's work and equity per year of well NOK 200000. It is not the value of the agricultural deduction, which in this material has an average value of NOK 28 000 per year. This was the situation after six years of red-green majority rule. However, the current performance target is not necessarily the best way to assess the profitability of agriculture or the income situation of agricultural households. However, although the operational reviews represent use above a certain minimum size, in 2011 agriculture only stood for 37 pst. of the family income, according to NILF. The same families as the representative Lundtigen refers to had a total income of well NOK 725000 in 2011, which is roughly on the level of the total income of other families in society. In the performance objective ‘family labour remuneration’, wages and salaries for hired labour are deducted. This means that the user family can hire people to run the utility and in some cases choose to run this goal at zero, while both users themselves take a different job. I agree that this is not a high income for the agricultural part isolated. Although operational review uses are above average, there is also some use with only a few hundred hours of labour input. For some small private traders it can be assumed that the family maximises family welfare as much as profits in industry. Variations in economic performance for similar uses also indicate variation in the quality of operations. If we, for example, looking at average consumption of milk in the East, the best third had an operating surplus of NOK 552,000, while the weakest third had an operating surplus of NOK 203 000. Many adaptations are taking place, and there are many work combinations in the agricultural households. The farmers are entrepreneurs and themselves have a significant influence on – and responsibility for – their own performance through operations and investments. The representative of Lundtigen knows well that among the reasons why only agricultural income trends are assessed in the agricultural negotiations, not the level. So the income of the representative Lundtigen's denominator is the result of the users' adaptation to six years of red-green governance. The government I'm part of will focus on predictability and reforms that can increase profitability, and we will give priority to use that has a resource base to provide a main source of income for users. However, the authorities can only provide business with income through the framework conditions laid down. It's the users themselves that have to create the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1406	I asked the question to a Minister of Industry, to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, not to the Minister of the Family. The answer given here is out of sight – excuse me, President – because it is the income of the business that is the question, documented by what is stated in the agricultural business reviews, which is a data material that has a tradition of over a hundred years and that relates to farm use that is 1.2 years old. Is it really the case that the new government does not want to look at the incomes of the agricultural industry as a basis for both level and development, but on the contrary wants to look at the overall income situation of the family when the incomes of the agricultural business are to be assessed in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1413	I think it's relevant to look at the family's total income, because that's what the family is going to live on. We know that there are many people in agriculture today who have bijobbers next to farming. What this government has signalled is that we in the agricultural agreement in the future want to give priority to those who run full-time and those who have their income base primarily in agriculture. It will be an important premise when we are now going into the agricultural situation for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1418	My question was specifically linked to professionally driven use. It was linked to the best practice. It was linked to the entrepreneurial income. I understand from the Council of State's response that the operational reviews in agriculture are a material that will not be taken into account to a great extent. It reminds me of the former State Council Five, who started this with the operational reviews. This was a government council which was cast in 1935 in the crisis agreement between the Bond Party and the Workers' Party, because the trademark of the Council of State was economic liberalism and productivity progress. One drove so strongly, no matter what the actual ratio in the industry, that one found that it had to get its redemption. Is it really the way – as the answers now provide the basis for claiming – that there are Five here represented by the Council of State, and that she wants to pursue a policy that is then beyond the actual economic development of the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1425	No, what underlies this Council of State policy is the agreement written between the parties that cooperate – the four parties initially – and the two parties that sit in government. What we want with Norwegian agriculture in the future is to increase profitability and improve the environment for those living in this industry. It's about facilitating the expansion of your business, getting more freedom, and I think it's high time we went in that direction in agriculture. I myself come from a farm and know well all the ways in which a farmer today uses to be able to feed his family. It's e.g. not uncommon to have snowbreeding next to, produce by, so there's a lot of nutrition a farmer has today to be able to feed his family, and it's going to continue to be. We therefore need to look at the total income for the whole household as well, in addition to just the one agreement that NILF is making.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1443	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1457	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1471	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1485	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-20.ana.ud2544e1500	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
