ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e26	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 7 May 2013: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 7 May 2013 at 7 a.m. 10.00 is determined: The Prime Minister's Office State Secretary Per Rune Henriksen is dismissed from office as Secretary of State of the Council of State Ola Borten Moe. Trygve Svensson is appointed State Secretary of State Council Trond Giske.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The former State Secretary, Per Rune Henriksen, has taken the seat as a representative. The representative Siri A. Meling will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e44	On behalf of Nikolai Astrup, Bjørn Lødemel and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for measures to improve the exploitation of hydropower resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e49	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, will also make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e52	On behalf of Elisabeth Aspaker, Olemic Thommessen, Svein Harberg, Siri A. Meling and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to facilitate the testing of different models of landowner-controlled management of the protection area or area being assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e57	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e60	On behalf of the representatives Per Olaf Lundteigen, Martin Kolberg, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I have the pleasure to submit proposals for amendment to the second paragraph of Section 12 of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Storting for the administration concerning a separate notification to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e77	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Trond Giske, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Hadia Tajik will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e84	My question goes to the state councillor Thorkildsen. We're approaching summer and summer holidays, and it's basically connected to the idyll of very many children and young people. Unfortunately, many people are also afraid of this, not least because they know that the journey to the country of origin can involve a coercion that you have no desire at all to experience. In 2012, record cases related to forced marriage were recorded. TV 2 reported that the number was about 400, which is significantly higher than ever before. Since 2004, 2,300 people have been seeking help in this country in the context of forced marriages, but probably the dark figures are very large. It is reported that girls down to the age of 13 are coercive, but from 2004 until today only two people are sentenced to this. In 2006, the then state councillor, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said that he was in favour of the 21-year age limit for detention, but this has not yet been implemented – probably because SV is opposed to such a tightening. The Progress Party has for many years made proposals for a wide range of measures and instruments that will help to remedy this, by setting, not least, a 25-year age limit for collection, tightening the binding requirements — at all, be tough in this fight, which in many cases actually applies to Norwegian citizens who experience not having the same freedom as other girls. What will the Council of State do to improve this dark statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e101	It is an important question that the representative raises, and it is a topic on which, fortunately, there is much discussion, even when it is not summer – the discussion lasts for the whole year. This is a problem that not only relates to the summer when many are going on vacation, but unfortunately to the whole year. We have recently come up with a new action plan on coerciveness, sexual mutilation and serious restrictions on the freedom of young people. It's not a coincidence that we've dealt with it that way, because some of the main problem here is that coercion does not start with coercion, but it happens a lot before by restricting the freedom of young people to choose, the freedom of young people to be part of the community, and to be allowed to be Norwegian. Some parents fear that they will become Norwegian. That's why we have to reach youth earlier. What we've been working on for years now, and which has proved successful, is empowerment. We ensure that everyone who comes into contact with children and young people has good competence on these issues, not least the police. We have also established regional teams to work on this and operate on training. We work with our foreign stations, which do an important job of assisting young people who have been sent out. And not least, we are more targeting youth through the minority advisors, whom I believe is a very good order, and who are working both against parental regeneration and up against the young seas, so that they should be aware that the coercion and restriction of their freedom, to which many are subjected, is not okay – it can also be illegal and is often obsessed with much violence. So getting in earlier – not only targeting higher education, but also youth – is an important part of the government's strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e110	I do not doubt the commitment of the Council of State to these young girls, but the problem is that the government is submitting action plans on an action plan without implementing the necessary measures. It is true that many of these young girls end up in a strong religious conflict. There's no lack of knowledge in these girls, they know very well what kind of society they live in, but they meet completely different attitudes at home that make them into a loyalty conflict. Finally, there is a question of what measures and penalties are contained in the law, which makes it possible to stop this, and which makes it possible to prosecute parents who expose their children to it. When the figures are so unambiguous – only two are condemned for this, despite the fact that we know that the scale is large – the Council of State must take tougher action. Is that what she wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e119	Judgments in this area are also important. But as is often the case with violence in close relationships, it is difficult to get convictions. It's both because many people are afraid to witness, and you don't dare to stand up and tell. Fortunately, by focusing our attention on these taboo issues — whether in minority settings or ethnic Norwegian environments — we are getting more people to stand up and ask for help. That's all, the most important thing to end the violence. Otherwise, we want the police to get better at investigating. We have some rather ghastly examples — some fatal examples — of young people not being taken seriously when they have come and told about the violence. The fact that we've set up the children's houses can make us have top skills, and that can help more of these kids. Then I also think that the conflict councils can contribute – I've seen that in my own eyes – where young people want reconciliation, because it's not necessarily punishment they always want, but they want violence to end, and the family and parents to accept them and recognise them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e126	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Solvency Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e129	We know that the Council of State is very concerned with equality, also from an integration perspective. Many young girls today with a minority background take high education, which is very good – there are girls we need out in the workplace. So the council says in its answer that the government's action is to get in early, and that one has counselors at the school. But we see that well-functioning girls with university education are actually forced to go to the family's former home country to get married. Often they become married to illiterates. So these girls are being put back in their development for many years, or miles — girls who could become a resource and who Norway needs. Today, Norway does not have the age limit for detention; Denmark has introduced a 24 year limit. My question to the Council of State is: What reasons does she have for not putting in such an important measure as to limit detention?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e138	I agree with a lot of the description, sail if much indicates that it is beginning to surface in groups that have been in Norway, and that this is improving as new generations grow up in Norway, and you become familiar with Norwegian society. It's also very important that we work so that both parents get work and feel like part of the Norwegian community. I'm e.g. Very concerned that mothers have to get into work and get a life that goes beyond family life. It's an important part of this as well. As far as Denmark is concerned, the debate there has taken some points that I hope we will not experience. One has got a situation where it has been very polarized in ‘us’ and ‘them’, where there are questions as to whether it actually works as intended. It also affects others who were not really supposed to be affected by the issue – which is really about marriage. They don't get the one they love, to Denmark, because of this rule that should really target someone else. So, hit security is also a question here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e145	Michael Tetzschner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e148	With regard to the latter, I think perhaps the Council of State should be more interested in the results in Denmark. Without my being in favour of the 24-year rule that has been introduced, and which is now a general political common good in Denmark, you can sometimes look across borders and see what works. There it is to pick up spouses in their original home country, which was 70 p.m., went down to 30 p.m. It also has an impact on future integration. I noticed that the Council of State is talking very quickly about what we all agree on, namely the problem description. Then she points to a lot of pricing measures, and I agree that it's great that they're going to be implemented, but what I'm asking for is whether the council has new ideas and solutions. When you reject the suggestions of others, as the questioner originally said, does the Council have new ideas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e156	Ideas are not the problem here if that's what the representative thinks. One of the new ideas lies in the new action plan, which I have not recorded that the representative Tetzschner has been particularly involved in the past, but which is that more attention should be paid to the youth dimension of prevention. You have to get in before the pregnancy starts to approach, because this is about serious restrictions on young people's freedom that come in long before. We are also very concerned that the social knowledge component of the introduction programmes needs to focus more on getting parents to understand the needs of their children. We are working against child protection to improve their ability to address these issues and help the children. We get a lot of criticism for that because we're very clear that we're not going to have a cultural-relationssing child protection. We're going to have a child protection that protects all children, wherever they come from. So it's not idea-dry, but it's going on in a direction that we know has an effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e167	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e170	In recent years, the IMFI has assumed responsibility for persons who are subject to forced marriages with a need for shelter from the SEIF organisation. When SEIF was in charge, they could arrange an apartment for people who needed it on short notice, often down to an hour. But now, when the IMF has taken over, we record that what was previously an immediate measure has been replaced by bureaucracy – with applications and gambling problems – which means that people in their greatest crisis have to wait, often at home with families they fear, for many days, perhaps weeks, and this is unsustainable. Furthermore, we see that the follow-up after a stay in the emergency room, ranging from six to eight months, is deficient. Where SEIF previously had close follow-up for several years after, the follow-up is now highly varied. Many are left to themselves or transferred to Nav or another public offer without special competence in the field. What will the Council of State do to remedy these conditions as regards both the waiting time for dwellings and the follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e177	I'm glad that the public takes a greater responsibility in these matters than was the case before, because I remember what it was like. At the beginning of the 2000s, I worked as a seafarer – not as a state council, but – as a women's political leader in SV. Then I was very interested in these matters. There were very few people who knew something about it in particular. Since then I have seen a tearing development, fortunately, where the public has taken a greater responsibility than was the case before. But I have also noticed what Gerd Fleischer, head of SEIF, has said. I've had my own meeting with her about it, to get into this seriously, because I don't want us to have a bureaucratic system that doesn't help people – that is, there's too much bureaucracy. It's not desirable, so we're going in and we're looking at how the situation actually is, how does it look from different points of view – from SEIF's point of view, but also from the point of view of the others. I am very concerned that we ask the young sails – among other things. she's very concerned about these so-called crisis issues, and there I'm interested in knowing if we can make an adequate offer to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e184	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e187	It's a question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The competitiveness of the Norwegian mainland industry has for a long time been weakened by a cost level of 70 pst. higher than that of trading partners and of medium-sized innovation and innovation results. The danger signals have been clear for a long time, and there has been no lack of warnings from either industry itself or opposition. The opposition has been largely accused of smearing the image of the industrial policy of the red-green government by talking about what it now describes as danger signals. In all haste last Sunday morning, in the best church time, the government presented a growth package to counter precisely these danger signals that the mainland economy is becoming weaker. Taking into account the very high pace of presentation, which runs over both the reduced tax range and hearings that have taken place, it raises two very central questions. Firstly, when did the government and the Minister of Industry become aware of the danger signals for the Norwegian two-track economy? And does the Minister of Industry believe that the measures proposed are of the scope to improve the framework conditions for the Norwegian mainland industry on a permanent basis, based on today's situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e196	The danger signals for Norwegian business we were well aware of already in the autumn of 2008, when the financial crisis struck all over the world, when speculative market liberalism had fallen in the United States and resulted in many, many millions of unemployed. In the EU, unemployment increased by two million people only from last year to this year. It's 26 million unemployed. In some countries, youth unemployment is approaching 60pst. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, which is one of our most important trading partners, unemployment is once again increasing. It's approaching 8.5 p.p., while every fourth youth is free. So the crisis is a serious fact in our entire continent. Norway is in a unique position, where we have almost full employment, strong growth and good economic development in the middle of this situation. But since 2008, the government has had a deliberate, targeted policy to limit the adverse effects of this crisis in our own economy. The oil price is relatively high, and there is a high investment rate — that sector is doing well. A lot of other business is also going very well, so there's not a two-way street where the oil and gas sector is going well and everything else is going bad. But there are some industries and niches that are hit extra hard. One example is the shipyard industry, which experienced 90 pst in the spring of 2010. order withdrawal. Then we created our own yard package and made sure that these yards got through the crisis. Now they're making good money. Now we see that it is the forest and wood industry that is struggling. It affects an industry of 25 000 to 30 000 persons employed. Then we put in specific measures for this industry. It is such a business-specific policy — not a business-neutral policy, which has been pursued in the past — that helps Norwegian business through a crisis. That's what we're following up, also in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e205	I record that the Minister of Industry, as always when he visits the Stortinget, is reluctant to talk about the situation around Europe, instead of answering what he himself intends to do. This underlines what I said in my first question, namely that the only thing that was urgent on Sunday – as far as I can understand – was to present the news. The measures then presented are those which will be most effective in 2014. The tax measures do not have an effect until far beyond 2015, when business receives the tax bill – if they have earned any money, so that they have to pay taxes. The question is: if something is going to be done now because of the danger signals, why has the revised national budget not dealt with measures — which could work immediately? I know that the forest industry has entered the door of the crisis, but here we are talking about the long-term problems of the mainland industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e214	We're doing both of these. Already in the autumn of 2008, we started with the State budget for 2009. Then the Right warned against spending more money. A few months later, we brought a tough package of measures. The Right said it was too small and too late. Now it turns out that we've hit about where we were going to keep the wheels going – without creating too much pressure in the economy. And we're going to do the same thing. In the revised national budget, there will be measures — the entire package of forests and wood of 750 million. Here comes kr. The measures to give oil companies a little more responsibility for the risk of exceedances in the North Sea will be included in the revised national budget. We also point out a direction in which we lower corporate tax – a proposal that the Right has never promoted in this room – where we increase depreciation rates, where we improve the financing of the TaxFUNN and facilitate innovation and development, so that the business community sees the direction it is going. It is in the direction we are going to continue – with full employment in the middle of a sea of unemployment in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e221	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e224	The Minister of Economic Affairs is, as usual, very unprecise. The reality is that the proposals to help strengthen the mainland industry are deferred to a possible new government. To put it this way, if we are going to take over, we have nothing against the proposals that have been presented. Surprisingly, no action room has been used in the revised national budget to implement measures now — with the exception of 250 million. kr to the wood and forest industries. The reality is that the government has re-prioritised billions in the revised national budget. It's released $4.5 billion. kr from public opinion, and then only a few million people are thrown into what can help to strengthen research and development. Within, inter alia: the user-driven innovation are only granted one in three applications. If you think it's necessary to build a defense agency, why are you postponing it for at least six months? Why don't you do something now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e234	We're doing something in every single budget, also in the revised national budget. Calling a package of 3⁄4 billion. kr to a specific industry closest to a trifle, I deeply disagree with. This is one of the biggest food packages ever. Contributing to innovation, to research, to better forest roads, to better access for timber cars on the common road network and, not least, to contributing 0.5 billion. in investment capital for innovative, innovative and growth-promoting enterprises, it would be thought that the right is on, but one is opposed to being against. This is an incredibly important package to repair many thousands of jobs that are now struggling. Then it is the overall economic policy. We can't start spending more money in an economy that's at full capacity. Providing the rule of action — ensuring a responsible use of oil money — and not jeopardising interest, exchange rates and competitiveness are almost the most important thing for Norwegian enterprises. The Right Party and the Advance Party clearly do not yet agree on a strategy at their lunches.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e241	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e244	This time, I hope the Council of State will answer the question instead of making a lot of excuses and excuses. My question to the Council of State is: Why do not more of the measures notified come into the revised national budget? Company tax is one of the points. But corporate tax will have no effect until 2014, maybe in 2015. In the case of the 3⁄4-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. SEK for the forest industry, is 500 million. kr of them transferred to Investinor, where they should be able to The money is earmarked for this sector – I'm sure it's in the letter to Investinor. The problem is that it takes a long time to get these projects started. My question is just about this: why do you not come up with measures now? In the package submitted, it is – as in particular: The representative Fleet said – only a small part that applies to 2013, most of which applies at a later stage. Why did you have to have a press conference on Sunday?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e253	The press conference on Sunday was called for to present measures that are now coming. The most important — exchange sensitive — reason for having a press conference on a Sunday is what you do in the field of oil taxation. Restricting some of the oil industry’s revenue — a little tighter. It's a risk transfer to the oil companies – that's how you try to get a little fewer exceedances. Some projects have been seen using many billions more than planned, and where the state has taken most of the bill. Now oil companies have to take a little more of the bill in these projects. The whole forest and wood package is coming. There will be measures in the field of labour market policy. The budget for 2013 is also adapted to the economic situation. Many measures are in place — simplification measures, research actions, active education policy measures. This is something that makes Norway go well. We've hit this plank every single time, and we hit it exactly right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e260	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e263	It is good that the government comes up with measures for the forest sector. It is an important sector, with major ring-effects. The government's £500 million stake. kr shall be within Investinor. If we are to believe their own websites, this is an investment company that, together with private investors, is to make some enterprises “world-leading”. You're going to pick out the best of the best. You have to bet internationally, they say, you own a company called "unique technology," and you already have to take the technological risk. My question, like the previous representatives, concerns the following: This will be done in 2014, because the revised national budget states that this money should be held in a blocked account in 2013. So this is going to happen in 2014. My question is simple – why 2014 and not 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e272	Investinor is quite free to start looking for these projects – from tomorrow on – because it takes a little time for Investinor to make sure they are quality. Investinor was recently added 1.5 billion. Extra kroner. Investinor now has 4.2 billion. kr available to invest in different, good business projects. Not one investment will be delayed in Investinor. On the contrary, I think Investinor has already begun to work to acquire the skills and knowledge – and look after the projects that are involved. This is the way we operate a modern business policy. We don't subsidize old jobs that no longer have the right to life. We invest in new companies through seed funds, through Investinor and through a public, active policy. For example: Eastfold we have Borregaard as a glittering example of a company that has changed, invested in new technologies and in production systems, which have automated, which have found new markets – and which operates very well. That's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e279	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e282	The biggest threat to a two-way economy is probably the seventh and last increase in oil activity, and it has doubled since 2005. For this reason, we in Left wonder that the Workers' Party will start oil drilling – or investigate it – in vulnerable areas such as the Lofoten and the Vestral. Does the Minister of Industry not understand that increased oil activity is in direct contradiction to the government's wish for less bi-dividuality in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e287	First of all, I think we should be very happy that we have a very strong oil and gas sector in Norway, and not least that through a very open policy we have had a competitive face against the rest of the world that has made our businesses incredibly competitive. What's exciting about the oil and gas industry now is that Norwegian companies sell almost as much goods and services abroad as we sell natural gas. We go from being a commodity exporter to being a knowledge and competence exporter. We deliver to other countries' oil and gas industries. It gives us more legs to stand on, it strengthens the trade balance, and it makes Norwegian companies have strong growth. We see that some companies deliver something to the oil and gas sector and something to other sectors. It makes them stronger, it makes sure they have more legs to stand on, but we have to make sure that the weight of demand in this sector does not become so high that all competences are drawn there and that the level of costs for the others is too high. That's what we're now doing with this package. But controlling it through the number of concessions, for example, I think it's a bad strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e294	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e298	I have a question to the Council of State Inga Marte Thorkildsen. For the Christian People's Party, freedom of choice for the family is important. I think everyone has understood that after our national meeting, where we adopted different arrangements adapted to different families, because families are different, children are different, and they have different needs. Modern family policy is about giving the family space and time to both be family and to be family with society. For us, it is quite important to stress that the family knows best, and there are two important measures we need to achieve a good freedom of choice. It's been ten years since I was negotiating the nursery arrangement here in the hall. While SV was only concerned about the first price, then space, we in the Christian People's Party were also concerned about the quality. Now, ten years later, the red-greens have begun to get the same concern. Parents' freedom of choice depends on our having good kindergartens with many enough and safe adults. Nevertheless, we see that the government has pushed the demand for adults in the nursery until 2020. Shouldn't this hurry as much as the max price rushed ten years ago? The second measure is the cash support to establish an freedom of choice. The government removed it for the two-year-olds, so they increased the amount for the one-year-olds, and now we see in the revised national budget that the government has to increase the amount of cash support by 30 p.m. In a previous debate with me in another medium, the Council of State has said that the cash support has been too low for it to be a real alternative. Does the government now see that this is a scheme that some families need and want to use, despite strong horrors for 15 years, and that growth and not cut is the way to go because this is a measure that parents need and want to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e309	Let me begin by congratulating the representative on his re-election as Vice-President of the Christian People's Party. I'm glad that this theme is being addressed. It is an important topic, not just freedom of choice as such, but how we organise a society that ensures that we give the best offer to children, the best growth they can have, strengthens parents to be good parents, that we take a shared responsibility also for children who need something extra, and that we facilitate that both women and men can stand on their own, contribute to society, have an economic freedom and also have the opportunity to be good, close parents without being limited, for example. of narrow gender roles. That is why we also agree on the question of the third division of parental leave, we and the Christian People's Party, and I am pleased about that. To the question of kindergartens, there is also one thing we are very proud of from the SV side and from the government side. The nursery agreement was concluded with the Christian People's Party as an opposing partner; they had really not wanted to be present, but were pushed in that time. What we have been given is a revolution in the everyday lives of families, which has really contributed to freedom of choice, but above all it has helped to give children a good offer before school age and for more women to participate in the work. It is important for equality, but also important for children, who get safer, more maritime mothers. We are very much in favour of manpower norms, unlike the potential government partners to which the Christian People's Party should rely. We are also skeptical to two recordings this year without ensuring that we get a good enough crew for the 1-year-olds. The fact that, let me say, kids go into kindergarten, the one-year-olds, without enough staff to take care of them, has enough adults, but preferably also pedagogues – that's what we're very concerned about on the SV side – I don't think is good. We must have good, safe kindergartens. Now we have managed to give it as a right to most families with small children, but we also have to ensure the quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e320	History story is subjective. SV's version of a Christian People's Party, which was contradictory and contrary to being part of the kindergarten agreement, is a false story. Our concern in the agreement was exactly what the Council of State was now talking about, namely to ‘mush’ – I think she used that term – children into kindergarten without having enough adults. SV was most concerned about getting the max price in place, while we both wanted to get more space and quality because we knew that we needed good, safe kindergartens to get this in place. We also see that the government has not managed to sort out a very important thing, namely combining cash support and kindergarten. There is now an almost impossible situation, so being able to be present in the labour market has been hampered by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e327	We're not going to spend a lot of time on a story that's ten years back in time, but it's now at least a fact then, that it was one – let's say, a little unfortunate – alliance of SV and the Progress Party that started this whole race, and that ended up with an agreement that eventually had to be all for, because that was the way it had to go. Until agreement was reached on the kindergarten agreement, very few kindergarten areas were built. It was a very weak increase, and the main strategy of the Bondevik government at the time was cash support. If the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right come back to government, or some other variant there on the right, the main strategy will again be cash support, perhaps with mandatory municipal cash support even, where the municipalities then necessarily have to choose whether to bet on cash support or on kindergartens locally. It's cheaper to spend money on cash support, and it can be at the expense of the quality of kindergartens. That's the big discussion ahead. What are you going to bet on, cash support or kindergartens? We are clear that we want kindergartens, and we want better quality too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e334	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e337	With a new government, families of children get a better choice. They receive both good kindergartens and cash support, not either – or, as the Council of State has now announced. Otherwise I can tell the council that I have been home with my children with cash support, so now she gets to see one of us alive, and that we look pretty normal in essence, we who have used cash support. Cats come out of the bag when the party trap of the Council of State in Our Country today says the following about the opposition: «Frp and H increase cash support for mother not to work and children not to go to kindergarten.» So banal and so flat, SV can get it said. My question to the Council of State is: What is the reason why SV does not recognise that many parents actually want to spend more time with their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e349	I think the vast majority of parents want more time with their children, and I think there are a lot of people who also feel a bad time and a bad conscience because they don't get to be with the kids anymore. We share that with the Christian People's Party; we want to organize better so that it is possible to be present, close parents and to be able to participate in the labour market. That strategy we want to include both women and men. It is very good that there are also men in our society who choose more time with their children. There is now a trend that we are in, and that we are also stimulating by changing gender roles that have been very stable and conservative in Norway, but also in Norway, among other things. because of the parental leave and designation of fathers have contributed to a change. That's very good. The question here is whether we should pay people not to use kindergarten, that's what cash support is all about – yes, that's it! That is the only criterion you set: whether you use kindergarten or not. If you pay people not to use such an important welfare asset, there are more people who stay home from work, and there are fewer children coming into kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e358	It's a little strange to hear a government council talking down a cash subsidy that she's raising herself in the revised budget, because the parents have actually opted for cash support for their children. And when you run a scare campaign that a civil government is going to increase cash support and increase freedom of choice, it's under this government's increasing cash support. So the government has put allowances on the parental leave. It has only one uptake in kindergarten. There are almost dates when you have to give birth, and when to have both leave and kindergarten. This has meant that the freedom of choice of the families has shrunk under this government. The result is that people choose cash support, because people choose to have more time at home with their family. They do that under this government. So the question is, is the Government satisfied that the government is increasing the cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e367	You have to be a politician from the Progress Party to claim that freedom of choice has fallen under this government. What we've been betting on has just been giving parents and children what they want, and it's access to good kindergartens, which most people now have the right to. Then we're the first to realize that we have to do something about the question of admission, and that we should do it in parallel to increasing the crew. In particular, we are concerned about the one-year-olds – if there are too many one-year-olds, without the municipalities ensuring a crew on the bench. That is why we are in favour of a standard of manning – as opposed to the Advance Party. The question of cash support is, as I said, whether we should pay people not to use kindergartens. Kindergartens are so important for children — especially for children who need something extra, especially for children who do not have good Norwegian skills, it is particularly important. It is important to ensure that women can participate in the labour market, and it is also important for the Norwegian economy. So that's part of our business policy. It is to ensure that we have access to women in working life because they represent important labour force for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e376	None of us know which children we have. Whether we have healthy and fast children, who jump to the nursery when they are one year old, and are ready to be gone a whole day from mother and father, or whether we have children who have a little other needs, who are not ready for a “filling place” - seven-eight hours in kindergarten every day for a week. This is up to parents to assess, and that is why we in the Right are in favour of cash support. We believe it should be the parents who decide what is best for the children, not the politicians. In the Right, we will not become moral judges over the lives of others. Although we now see that the export of cash support goes down, we still believe it is wrong that the cash support is exported out of the country. Why does the government not do anything to prevent the export of cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e383	We see different ways of preventing ‘exporting’ welfare benefits, in order to use such a concept, and there is a work going on to look at the scope of action we have under the EEA Agreement, of which the Right is an ardent adherent. I believe that entering into a compulsory scheme of cash support for municipalities is a very bad example of how to try to solve such a problem. I don't think it's possible to solve it that way either, because ESA is going to quickly go into it. At least that's my tip. But the whole issue of cash support is whether we want to pay people not to use kindergarten, or whether we want to stimulate more people to use kindergarten. In the drama, as the representative knows well, and where the Right is running, it is said that it is not fair to use cash support because it prevents integration, it prevents children from getting into kindergarten and learning Norwegian and that women also get to participate in the work, which is so important again for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e391	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e394	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. For a number of years, the Minister of Economic Affairs has pointed out the importance of this. by reducing the trend of wage management in Norway. Time and again, we have seen the Council of State point out, especially to the private sector, how important it is for these salaries to be significantly reduced. Now we have just behind us a wage settlement – a mid-term settlement – and we have well got a wage development of about. 3.5 pst. for this year. In addition, the figures for the 2012 salary statement of the Technical Calculation Committee are now ready. They probably came in March-April. We have seen, among other things. in the case of pensioners in Norway, that they have reduced their purchasing power in relation to employees. That is a desired policy of the government. Furthermore, from the Technical Calculations Committee, we have seen that the overall wage trend in society was 4 pst. for 2012. When we then go into the figures for management wages, we can read that the government's management salaries within the scope of the main tariff agreement increased by 7.9 pst. In addition, we have seen the figures in the media related to state companies. There has actually been the wage trend for managers at 8,5 pst. Then we can differentiate to the private sector, which in 2012 had 0.3 pst. average wage increase. My question to the Council of State is this: Is the Council satisfied with the job done here, which ensures that the increase in the salary of managers in the main tariff agreement is almost twice as high as that of employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e407	One of the most important projects of this government has been to try to achieve a more even distribution in the Norwegian community. One of the measures has been to have a completely different and more offensive attitude to the growth of executive compensation than what we experienced during the government we took over after. It's now starting to produce results. In the companies for which I am responsible and which are listed, the total remuneration growth in 2012 is 2.9 pst. We have some companies that are still exempt. Statoil and Telenor, as the two largest companies in Norway, have continued to grow above average. But even when you're counting on them, and you're counting on all the rewards that are our rule, the growth is below 3 pst. That's a good result. Then it starts to creep into these companies that we're serious about moderate wage developments. It's also absolutely necessary, because it's impossible to require normal people to show moderation if they go ahead at the top. But let me add: it's also completely impossible to demand moderation from ordinary people if you give many billions – tens of billions – in tax cuts for those who have the most from before, while ordinary people get a few hundred patches. If, for example: the entire wealth tax disappears, how do people see that the richest 10 percent run away with almost all the money, while ordinary people with normal jobs get a lick and nothing because they don't sit with the big fortunes. It will undermine the whole distribution policy, it will create greater differences between people, and it will make it almost impossible to demand moderation. We must continue to have a very forward-looking attitude towards the leadership salaries. I have even warned that I am going to replace controllers who do not follow these criteria – or at least make it an assessment criterion when bosses are to be elected – and we now see that this results from the fact that the head wage growth, at least in 2012, is much more moderate than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e412	Once again, the council tries not to answer the specific question that I had, and instead tries to bring something back. Yes, I fully agree with the Council of State that we cannot allow all taxes to be levied on the property tax. That's also why the Progress Party has been ready to raise the bottom line and ensure that taxes and charges are lowered for ordinary people, is at the core of the Progress Party's alternative budget. The Council of States can read it there without us including it in this debate. My challenge to the Council of State is this: in the private sector, there was an average increase for managers of 0.3 p.p., while the state has obviously been almost ten times higher in these companies. Well and well, but my question is, What further action will the Council of State do? Could it be a solution for the Council of State, for example: to consider looking at the Shares Act to see whether it is possible to determine whether the senior remuneration of government companies and limited liability companies should be determined by the general meeting and not by the boards?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e421	I think the most important thing is to choose directors who realize that we are serious about leadership wage moderation. As I said, when the total remuneration in 2012 in the listed state companies is below 3 p.m., we are in the process of success. But it's incredibly important that you don't just look at pay, because what did we do? First, we said no to all the options, these giant packages that the leaders got related to the share price. So we said bonus should be limited to 50 pst. of the fixed salary. And then we said to show moderation in fixed pay. We have now said that there should be no parachute or final package that exceeds more than a year's post-paid salary, and we have also said that there should be restrictions on how the pension scheme is designed. Now we've made all of the payments, and that's the sum of what you get, which is the determining factor. If you close just one thing, it sticks out in other areas. Now we've taken all of them. When you look at everything, it's under 3 pst. in 2012. Then we're going to succeed, but we're going to keep an eye on the companies and make sure that good board members take the wage trend seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e426	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e429	It's a little amazing to listen to this round of questions, because a person often gets answers to completely different things than what you're asking about — and often completely irrelevant. Such as when talking about the need for money to be kept within the framework of the rule of action, while the package of measures promoted by the Minister of Industry for the woodworking industry is largely outside the rule of action. In the same way, you talk about leadership wages, and now you're going to get good governance. When the government presented St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, the government wrote: «The government will ensure the moderation of management salaries in companies where the government is a significant owner.» Now we've got a new Minister of Commerce, who's standing right here in front of us. He writes in a letter to Harald T. Nesvik of the Progress Party on 1 July 2011 that it is an intention that companies contribute to moderation. So you've gone from saying that one should secure moderation to saying that one hopes for moderation. So one here says that it's up to the board members to decide. The Progress Party considers that this can be decided directly at the General Assembly. Why is it not a better solution when, after all, it is in line with what the government said before Giske became Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e441	We can assess different systems within companies, but the most important thing is that those who make the decisions in their day-to-day strategist planning and who, not least, recruit management, namely the board, take this seriously. I do not know whether the semantic debate on contributing to, having as objective or providing is the most important when the results are there. We see for 2012 that there is a growth in remuneration in these listed state-owned companies of less than 3 pst. Then we have succeeded. We've got rid of the options, we've limited the bonuses, we've restricted the final packages, and we're now also providing moderation in wage developments. The fact that you get answers to more than you've asked for is probably because you sometimes ask questions about things that you've made up an opinion about the answer in advance from the opposition. And so the Progress Party doesn't know that much more serious than the leadership wage increases will be a huge tax haven for the richest. Then the moderation will disappear like dew for the sun because ordinary workers will not benefit from the big tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e448	Fortunately, it is not the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e453	The President asks Mr Solvik-Olsen to show respect for the rules of the Storting. Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e458	This has been one of the red-green government's taboos, also one of the Giskes taboos. When he answers this question by talking about the distribution effect of any reduction in property tax, there is a strange response from a government that announced on Sunday that they would reduce the tax on business and investment by 3 billion. kr – completely strange and not at all relevant. I would like to ask the question in a slightly different way, because I see that the Minister for Economic Affairs has done a good job in this area. Slow progress has been made, management wages are still relatively high. But he said in his first answer that he was prepared to replace the controller, or at least have it as an assessment theme. How far is he going to be willing to go in order to proceed in his fanatical affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e466	I believe what we announced last year that this will now also be made an assessment criterion when the boards may be re-elected or replaced, has had their effect, to say it this way. Then I think you really realized in the government that this is what we meant seriously. I think that's reflected in the results that we're now getting. Now we've done some replacements in some controllers, among other things. in directors who have had leadership wage developments far beyond what the Stortinge felt was at least sound. It has to do with a lot of things, and we never go out and say that that and that board member will be replaced for that and that reason. But that's part of an assessment criterion, we think we've helped. It's pretty interesting to look at the overall numbers. Norway is one of the few countries where the differences between rich and poor actually decrease. In Sweden, under the bourgeois government, it is the very opposite, which increases the differences between the richest and the poorest. It is incredibly important for a society to have relatively small differences — it simply makes society better for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e473	Hans Olav Syversen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e476	I remember very well that we had a hearing in the Control Committee on Remuneration of Leaders – it was probably three years ago, so there has not been any immediate action here, it has taken some time. But I totally agree, it goes in the right direction. Moderation is not only needed in state companies; it is a general challenge. If you are to demand moderation of your employees, you should also have it at management level. I would essentially like to challenge the Council of State on the following: Should not the law be amended, so that the total remuneration given to management is now added to the General Assembly for approval there? We know that many board members sit on each other's boards and thus also take care of themselves. I think maybe such a signal would mean a lot for a moderation line in many more companies than just the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e485	I'm not going to reject any suggestions over the table, because that's what Switzerland has voted in a referendum. But I think you to the seventh and last either way depend on the governments that have this consciousness. For a general meeting, the Swiss model – as far as I understand – will only have this in retrospect. It is always the board that recruits and employs a manager, and then contracts a remuneration. So that's enough plus and minuses on such a system. But I agree with the Syverse's description, that there may have been too many in the boards who themselves have the kind of remuneration reflected in these galloping leadership salaries, and that there is also a need for people with a different background and insight. I also think the rounds the Storing has had, and the Syvers themselves have been involved in, have helped, it has increased consciousness and increased pressure. It is very important not to undermine this by turning the entire tax policy into a very discriminatory one between them at the top and the lower ones. Now I understand that the Christian People's Party must not attend these lunches between the Right and the Advance Party, and I think that is good, because the Christian People's Party has largely cooperated with us in maintaining a tax system that contributes to redistribution. I hope that Christian People's Party will also do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e492	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e495	I have a question for the Minister for Children about the most vulnerable children that can be thought of. Yesterday came the bill which, with minimal changes, continues begging in Norway. The Hordaland State Attorney warned in the hearing against the draft law because it did not distinguish between adults and children. When the government does not propose a total ban on begging, the state attorney believes that at least an admission to refuse to beg children should be introduced. Such a ban would make it easier for the police to intervene against those who exploit children for begging. The ban could also prevent parents from taking their children out of school to join Norway to beg the State Attorney. But what is the country's Children's Minister to propose, instead of a ban on using children for beggars? Well, she agrees to propose that children under the age of 18 be released from the obligation to report – i.e. no lower age limit for beggars, as requested by the State Attorney. Now it's part of the red-green reality orientation, it's assumed that they've given up the fight against poverty, so now they're going around saying that it can't be banned – and nobody's arguing. But we can decide to ban childbirth. So the government, which, knowingly and willfully, opens up our country and our cities to trafficking children and others in vulnerable addiction situations, so that it becomes easier for children to beg than for adults, has a child minister who, in another context, has stated that she is responsible for all children in the country. My question will then be: What measures in addition to the shower and toilet will the Minister for the Child, if we can now expect more children in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e506	This was a somewhat surprising twist to a problem that fortunately is frequently debated in Norway — and it should be. Not least, we should be concerned about the situation of children also in their home country, when parents have to leave their own country because they have no future in that country where you would want them to have the opportunity to have both work and social protection, which enabled them to be good parents for their children. The representative asks about a law attached to the Ministry of Justice, and addresses issues about whether we are going to see a lot of kids begging in the streets of this city and elsewhere in the country, with the bill that has come. I haven't heard it up like a problem. On the contrary, if a child sits on the street and begs, it is a child protection issue. Then child protection should go in and check the conditions for the specific child, and I expect that they will also deal with such a notification obligation scheme as has now been proposed. It would also be very strange to ask children to register as beggars when we are not to allow children to beg in the streets, but on the contrary, to put in remedies if it is the case that children are out begging – because then there is reason to be concerned about the child and how it is taken care of. It is also the case that children in Norway are to be guaranteed schooling. So the issue that the representative is raising, I'm of course open to having to discuss further, but it's now at least a new twist on a problem that's going to be violently debated further. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that I hope that in this city you will be interested in using a wide range of tools to remedy the situation for people in distress, but also for the city's population, who have demands for security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e519	If the Minister for the Child, who in another context has stated that she feels responsibility for all children within the borders of the State, had been concerned about and interested in them, this twist would not have been surprising. Then she had been interested in the phenomenon of minor beggars. It is not by chance that I refer to the State Attorney in Hordaland, for he has been charged with bringing the accomplice in a very bad human trafficking case involving minors. When the Council of State refers to child protection, it is precisely in that case underlined that child protection does not work in this context. One of the children mentioned in this judgment from Bergen was brought in more than 30 times by the police in 2008 and 2009. She was 13 years old. All submissions were for begging, orderly or gainful delinquency. My question to the Minister for Children is: What expertise does she have that would allow her to ignore advice from law enforcement, police districts and police Directorates that could prevent childbirth in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e528	Again, the law itself is under the Ministry of Justice, so for details on this issue, it is almost necessary to address the Minister of Justice. But my responsibility is child protection, and I have had a lot of dialogue with child protection about how to deal with these issues. Child Protection says they think it's difficult, because it's, among other things. For parents who are often here over a short period of time and then return home. As far as they have children, the concern of child protection has been that some of these children have remained in unsupervised apartments, which is a huge problem. We have to look at: what are the possibilities for giving these children the security they need? Just the fact that there are EEA citizens who are only here for a short time and then go home again makes it very difficult to know how to handle it. But to believe that a general ban on begging is going to make people no longer travel to Norway, I think is naive. They're going to do that, and then they're going to find other ways of life. But these children are our responsibility anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e537	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e540	It is a growing problem that children of poor people are being exploited for begging in Europe. What the government is doing now is imposing some restrictions to make it harder for adults to beg. At the same time, children are exempted from the same restrictions, as recommended by the State Attorney. That is what makes this question relevant to the Minister for Children. I get worried when I hear the answers from the Minister for Children today, because it does not seem that the Minister for Children has been involved in the assessments made by the government when exempting children from the same restrictions. It may look as if you are closing your eyes to childbirth when you do not want to apply measures. We had expected that there would have been thorough assessments by the Minister of the Child when you go against the prosecutor's recommendation. In this context, it is important to ensure that children are not used for begging. How has the Minister for Children been involved in this work? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e550	The President will ask that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e553	This is under the Minister of Justice's constitutional responsibility – that's the way it is. We do have discussions within the government on different aspects of the different laws, but all the details of each law that other departments are responsible for are not necessarily we within. But questions about children, we're concerned about, and we're concerned about caring for these children. But do you do it through prohibition, or do you do it in other ways? What has been my concern and our concern is how child protection manages to take care of these children. Some of them we look at the street, but it's not that often. By and large, they are hidden. They may be hidden in apartments, as I said, while the parents are out begging, and then there is a care failure for those children. They may be left in their home country. It is more problematic and difficult to deal with for us, but then we may be able to contribute through the EEA funds – at least we want to do so more. It may be that the children are held in captivity or forced to engage in various forms of slave work, and in that case it is both a police responsibility and a child protection responsibility, and then we have to guarantee them good competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e560	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e563	I am surprised that the Council of State in a way shifts responsibility from itself to the Minister of Justice. So the Council of State is Minister for Children, and she says on every occasion that she has, that the Minister for Children is responsible for all children. We have seen many examples of children begging – serious issues, issues related to trafficking in human beings, and in which child protection should be included, but where child protection does not do the job they are going to do. Now the Council of State says several times that it is the responsibility of child protection, and I hope for all that child protection is able to handle this. Therefore, it is alarming that children are not included in this message, when we know that there are children who are exposed to trafficking in human beings in the form of begging. So my questions to the Council of State are basically: Has the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion been the Hearing Officer in this matter? Did the ministry have any objections, and what cooperation has it been in this matter that was put forward, seen from the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e574	I think it's strange that the opposition is making a number out of some things that are the constitutional responsibility of another minister. That means they're the ones with the details and they're responsible for the law. We're always an advisory body – that's how the system works. Then we take up things that we're concerned about, and what we've been especially concerned about, has been, among other things, the question of social policy instruments. Here, too, the possibility of child protection to play a role. My constitutional responsibility is to ensure that child protection works and can do a job for these children as well. So there's a lot of issues going on, which makes the U.D. also have to be inside, because it's largely about EEA citizens and free movement, and how you relate to your parents in these contexts. We've taken up human trafficking. There we have had our own tools to overcome trafficking in human beings that are interlinked, among other things. However, some of these issues may also be linked to asylum by, inter alia: shall be capable of withholding children. So it's not like we're holding hands, but it's like we have to work for better child protection skills and to give them the means to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e585	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e588	I want to encourage the Council of State to go into the topic, because there's so much delusion that's being brought out in this area, there's so much misinformation, and there's so many notions. When e.g. The state attorney in Hordaland believes that the alternative for space children in Europe is going to school, because it means that you don't have any idea where these children actually come from. The Children’s Protection Act applies to all children living in Norway. This means that the State Council can actively use the Child Protection Act. This was done three years ago by the Children's Protection in Oslo, when it was seen that children began to come out on the street to beg – just as they would if drug addicts had brought children out on the street to beg. They said that if you do, the child will actually be taken from you. It was very effective. Then all the children were sent back to their home country when the parents stayed here. Will the Council of State ensure that child protection actually uses the instrument you have by saying that children should not actually be on the streets and begging?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e597	The answer to that is yes – maritime. So do we. And as I said in my reply to the representative Tetzschner at the very beginning, child protection is the answer to the problem that he is raising. Child protection must protect these children, in which case they will be subjected to care failure, and some may even be subject to trafficking in human beings. If we're going to be able to reveal it, we're dependent on close cooperation between, among other things. police and child protection. So from time to time, I feel that child protection is uncertain about how to behave – it can be to children of space, and it can be to children of ethnic minorities, children from other parts of the world who live in Norway, that it is not an EEA issue. Then I'm very clear that we're not going to have a cultural-relationssing child protection in Norway. All children are entitled to the same protection; they are entitled to the same protection. No one tolerates more Christmas just because their parents come from another country. That's why we have to take it seriously if you see children begging on the street, who haven't seen me as a big problem here in town, but who are raised as a problem by the police. So it's clear we have to take it seriously, but you can disagree with the mechanism here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e604	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e616	There's going to be a change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 3, from the representative Per Arne Olsen of the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e629	‘The municipality of Ullensaker was formally designated by the Directorate of Health in a letter of 25 June 2010 to have a specific responsibility for emergency management of Oslo Airport Gardermoen. It imposes exceptional costs on the municipality related to health and social services. In 2012, the cost was 2.7 million. kr in additional expenditure directly charged to the municipal budget. Do the Council of State agree that these are the costs to be borne by the municipality by the central authorities?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e641	All municipalities are required to be prepared for the health and social services for which they are responsible. Norway is obliged by the International Health Regulations of the IHR, International Health Regulations, of 2005. This is reflected in the regulation on warning and action in the event of serious incidents of concern to international public health, the so-called IHR Regulation, which entered into force on 1 July 2008. The implementation of this Regulation includes the warning and follow-up of communicable diseases of concern to international public health, suspicion of such diseases and suspicion of incidents which cannot be excluded from being such a contagious disease. It is provided that the post-IHR emergency response requirements from 2005 are within the scope of statutory tasks. The Directorate for Health has been entrusted with the task of identifying and identifying airports, ports and border crossing points to perform specific tasks in the event of an event of concern to international public health. The municipalities entrusted with such a task shall ensure that the designated ports, airports and border crossing points have access to the premises, personnel and equipment necessary for the control of passengers, baggage, cargo, containers, means of transport, human biological material, postal consignments and goods, including animals and plants, in order to protect against a serious incident of importance to international public health. In 2010, four municipalities were designated as the Point of Entry municipalities. These are, as the representative says, Ullensaker – with airport, Oslo – with port, Bergen – with port and airport and Tromsø – with port and airport. The Government has decided that any additional costs incurred by these municipalities as a result of the implementation of the IHR Regulation, as a principle, will be covered within the allocated framework. These frames have, as you know, increased during this government. However, in 2012, the Directorate informed the four municipalities that if the municipalities can document additional costs in addition to those previously responsible for the municipalities under the Health Protection Act and the Infectious Act, they can send evidence of this to the Directorate, which will assess the type of information received.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e652	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is true that Ullensaker, with the main aerodrome, does not only have this emergency responsibility. There are also very many other types of needs that emerge as a result of the airport. There is a need to set up a day shift, as the municipality has done, to take care of those who work at the airport and commute in and out. There are cases where travellers come to the Gardermoen who do not have a municipality of residence, and for which the municipality has to take responsibility, which, for example, imposes additional Nav costs. In the case of any applications to recover the costs, what are the assessments on which the Ministry takes a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e661	The representative has an interesting relationship when he points to the pressures that these municipalities have, and there are undoubtedly some of them in Ullensaker. And so is it that these municipalities also have some attractive sides, because there is a lot of activity and value creation associated with people travelling and passing. It's not that it's set of its own resources to compensate in this area, but we're listening to the comments that have come from any of these four Point of Entry municipalities. It is the directorate that will first assess this material, look at it, and then the department will keep in touch with the municipalities. But no decision has been made, nor has a special list of criteria been drawn up to assess it, but we are at least open to making it available in specific situations. That is what I expect to be done in, among other things. the municipality to which the representative refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e668	The council says that the municipality has been allocated increased funds. You can discuss what's going on with this specific municipality and the relationship there. But it is also the case that OSL and Avinor, in particular, are a billion-dollar enterprise with a formidable surplus but benefiting from these services. Does the Council of State see that perhaps some of these funds, since they are now providing a municipal service, should actually be allocated to the municipality, since the State has already collected the company tax, which at an earlier date provided the municipality with some of the funds that the council claims the municipality has?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e675	I understand that this is a relevant question to ask, especially on behalf of the municipality, for which the representative is now an ombudsman. But there are complex issues where I don't want to conclude, given how the tax resources, ownership and profits of these two units are distributed. I have to deal with the fact that, in terms of their responsibilities under the IHR Code, we expect them to solve it within the scope of the obligation given by the law. This has been done in recent years. So it's a little bit unclear which loads this is, and what it might lead to of extra costs. There we are open to the Health Directorate to review it, if there is any relevant evidence. Then we'll have to consider any further action based on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e686	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘An investigation in Health Nord has concluded that there is a need for a new air ambulance stationed on Evenes to adequately serve the densely populated region of the region. However, it is still unclear at present when the helicopter may be in place. Norwegian Air Ambulance has offered to station one of its helicopters at Evenes this summer, but has met a wall of bureaucracy in Health Nord. Will the Council of State contribute to the establishment of a temporary summer base and to the strengthening of ambulance preparedness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e695	Preparedness is important in a long-term country such as Norway. Fortunately, Norwegian prehospital services are able to deliver very good results in international contexts. It's impressive when we consider our country. A short time ago, we discussed in this room the emergency receptions, and I then stressed that we have to see the entire prehospital chain in the context. Medical, car, boat and air ambulances and emergency shelters with different functions constitute some of the services that can assist us when we need urgent medical assistance. In Northern Norway, it is particularly demanding to have good enough health services due to geography and climate. From 2002 to 2006, Health Nord had over 1.1 billion. NOK in deficit. The new bulk of population changed the distribution of income between the regions so that Health Nord increased resources to take account of its special circumstances. The region is now in an economic balance. The Health Nord Board must, on the advice of its professionals, use the resources so that the full range of supply is optimised. There are now air ambulance helicopters in Brønnøysund and in Tromsø. On Banak and in Bodø there is cooperation with the rescue services ambulance services with the Sea King helicopters. Health Nord has investigated and concluded that northern Northland and South Troms have lower ambulance helicopter coverage than the rest of the country, and that is a professional basis for establishing a base. Evens is recommended as such. The Health Nord Board shall decide whether to prioritise resources for a new ambulance helicopter base or to use the funds for other health services in the region. It will, as I experience it, probably happen at a board meeting in June. The Norwegian Air ambulance Foundation owns the operator company Norsk Luftambulanse AS. This is one of two companies operating air ambulance services in Norway. I guess Norsk Luftambulansse AS will be currently offering in a tender for a permanent base on Evenes. Pending the decision to tender, the Norwegian Air Safety Agency, as the representative says, has offered to operate a temporary base on Evenes as a gift. The management of Health Nord has expressed that their main focus is to assess a permanent base and that they will have tidy relationships associated with such acquisition. The design of the health service in North Norway is best done in North Norway. I have little faith that moving decisions from Bodø to Oslo will benefit the citizens of the country. The Health Nord Board is broadly composed, and they shall be submitted to the Administrative Board for consideration of the offer of the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation at the Governing Board meeting on 22 May. I await your assessment in this matter. The most important thing for the population is what permanent solutions are being put in place. Health Nord has given positive signals about working for a new base, and that it can be in place by the end of next year, i.e. in 2014 and not in 2016, which was first signaled. In the light of the investigation, I therefore expect Health Nord to concentrate its efforts to put in place such a permanent base for the benefit of the inhabitants of the region, and that they are already in a phase in which they are preparing to organise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e708	Nobody disagrees that we have to put in place a permanent base, but now there is an offer for a summer base under the direction of the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation. All counter-arguments currently produced by Health Nord are one by one rejected by legal expertise and others. Recently, the medical director of Health Nord also had to go back to the claim that there was no medical interaction competence in the region that could handle a helicopter. This summer, Narvik Hospital will be partially closed because building upgrades will be made there. At the same time, we know that in this region there is also a great influx of tourists in summer time, with a great deal of traffic and danger of traffic accidents. Does the Minister of Health not understand that no-arguments from Health Nord are not acceptable in this region, which is a black hole on the air ambulance map, and that such a summer base would be a valuable offer until you get a permanent base once in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e715	Let me start by saying that I'm assuming that there's a generous offer that the air ambulance here has been promoting, and you have reason to take a positive view of that. So I believe that if we see the outlines of the decision on such a permanent base in a very short time, I will assume again, without having to have detailed opinions on the process and progress on this, that Health Nord will then open up a tender to find the best offer. That at one stage they then show caution about what a very likely tenderer gets from position in that region, I take note as a matter of emphasis. So it's not like this is an offer that's being removed from the region – it's about creating an offer for two months, which I have no reason to doubt is a generous offer. I have also noticed that some questions are asked about whether the various helicopters are suitable for that mission. I am also not fit to conclude that. I believe that the government of Health North, when they come together and evaluate this, has good prospects for making decisions for the best of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e724	The answer from the Minister of Health is now in stark contrast to what has been presented in Harstad's Official Journal today, where the first candidate for the Workers' Party says that there is a clear voice from the Minister of Health, it is an order on a permanent basis, and he also interprets the Minister of Health that there was a great deal of willingness to facilitate this summer base. I'm really wondering what the Minister of Health is thinking. Reference is made here to tenders and a potential tenderer. The logic then had to be that no matter who operates health care and air ambulances in Norway today, you would not be able to make a new offer in the next round of tenders because you are in the offer today. Does the Minister of Health not see that we have two potential providers of this service today, and it cannot be that one should be refused to participate in the next round of tenders because one is inside today and performs the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e731	I think I now expressed myself quite clearly in the direction of getting a permanent base and a quick decision on it seems wise. I respect that decision to be made in the north, but I have the impression that it's in the direction of thinking. Then I'll make every reservation that the board will make that decision. That's point one. I think that is in line with the other thing I know, has stated on that matter. I also know that the so-called black holes are a topic throughout our country. There's a couple of them, and they're addressed this way. It is not that this is a company that is in and has a tender, and it must be okay to be able to make a next offer, but it would in case be that one of the potential two tenderers just before a tendering procedure comes in and gets a position. I don't want to conclude by what the legal, technical and medical leaders want for such a process to have such a position that you give yourself out of your own generosity. But I respect that those who are responsible for the tendering process want integrity and cleanliness around it, and I'm absolutely sure they have it based on their desire to do the best for the health services that people in the region get.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e749	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e756	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘The degree of self-sufficiency of Norwegian agricultural products has been reduced from 52 pst over the period of power of the red-green government. to 47 pst. This is not right with the ambitions of the government. Is this something the Council of State is satisfied with?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e765	As the representative Per Roar Bredvold knows very well, we in the government have set an ambitious goal of increasing food production in Norway by 1 pst. Every year, precisely because we believe it is important that Norway is as self-sufficient as possible and that we should use its resources to produce food. We believe that we are at least vulnerable when we have our own food production, and that it is also important for the country's readiness to have its own food production. Then we haven't had 1 pst. growth in food production, but in the years of the red-green period we have had a fairly stable development. We've become more people, so we haven't been able to have the development of the food supply that we want after the new big news, where we want a strong growth in the future. But our goal is 1 pst. growth. That's why we're committed to strong customs protection, so we're committed to a well-functioning agricultural agreement, so we're committed to a cooperative that allows us to have food production all around Norway. What we did last year when it came to customs was an important measure. I hope that the agricultural negotiations we are now in can also help us to achieve the goal of 1 pst. annual growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e772	I thank the Council of State for the conclusions he draws. I guess that wasn't really an answer to the question I had. In fact, the degree of self-sufficiency has been reduced from 52 pst. to 47 p.m., and it's quite alarming. At the same time, the government wants to turn part of the food production we have into organic production. As we all know, when you grow organically, you get less food out of the area and work. - That's one thing. So to another thing I've taken up several times in the quiz. There are some farmers, and many of the farmers we have in Norway – fortunately, everyone is very creative and thinking new – wants to have more land, that is, to grow more land. It is also quite difficult, because the County Environmental Protection Department is putting chains in the soil – in the soil, literally – for the production of more food. Then I think especially of cereals, but also of grass.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e781	Food production has increased, but the population has increased more. Because of the population growth, we have set ourselves the ambitious goal that I had in place, namely to increase food production by about. 1 pst. annual in the future. We have had a very strong population growth in recent years, especially due to heavy labour migration to Norway. When it comes to organic farming, we use some resources on it. What's our point about the investment in organic farming is that we want to have a food diversity in Norwegian shops, that consumers should have a variety of products to choose from. That's why we're using $200 million. to stimulate that diversity. That the Advance Party will always make the organic farmer a scapegoat, when we see how little resources we spend on it, and when we see that it's a market to have those goods, I don't understand. I believe it is right that we have a food diversity in Norwegian shops, and then organic products are part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e788	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Yes, a diversity will have the Advance Party. It will all have, because it is exciting to go to shops and can choose from both Norwegian products and foreign products. This is why the Advance Party wants a diversity in all food products. Back to this with a scapegoat: the party of progress does not want to give any stamped scapegoats, as other parties may want. We want everyone to do what they want, even in agriculture, so if there's anyone who wants to do organically, they're of course going to be allowed to do it, and there's a part that wants organic products. So there's no doubt about it, but it might seem that not all the organic is sold as organic. Among other things, some milk is sold as normal milk. But back to this with new cultivation: we have to do something with the County Environmental Protection Department, so that there is a more local autonomy in growing up, because today there is an area restriction on how many objectives each municipality can have to say no. So if you're going to grow more, you're going to have to go to County, and the County Environmental Protection Department has often been able to say no to this because of some coke pits or whatever.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e797	I have to take a small reservation, but I think I remember that in the previous year the new cultivation was approx. 17 000 dean. It's a fairly extensive new cultivation in Norway now, and it's very good, so it's more new cultivation than deforestation – with the small reservation I took. Then we've introduced a 100 million new ditch grant. kr, just to address the problem discussed by Per Roar Bredvold with regard to increasing the level of crop production in cereals. We've done it, we're going to spend 100 million. kr on it, and has created a very simple and unbureaucratic system where you can apply to the municipality. If you don't see that there can be a conflict with special cultural values, the municipality can process it. So we're doing good, targeted action. Here it must be a paradox for the representative, Mr Bredvold, that while the Party of Advances is talking about increased food production, they cut about. 5.5 B.C.E. in transfers through its alternative budget last autumn, and a lower customs duty is sought. Then it wouldn't have been profitable to produce food many of the places we produce food today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e808	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘The Governing Councils have been challenged on several occasions on the implications of government changes in import protection, including: in various cheeses, could be obtained for other Norwegian export industries in the longer term. In this context, the Council of State has dismissed this and devalued any countermeasures that are unlikely to occur. Now it turns out that this case has been dealt with in the EU system in the form of a resolution. Is the Council of State still equally sure that there will be no countermeasures from the EU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e817	Let me have the honour to answer the honorary former co-representative of the Health Committee, Harald Tom Nesvik – now the Business Committee! We have a well-functioning import protection, and that is a prerequisite for increased Norwegian agricultural production. We put that in the communication on agricultural and food policy. Under the 1995 WTO Agreement, Norway may choose to have a krone duty or a percentage duty on about half of the agricultural product tolls. These toll lines cover all major Norwegian agricultural products. The size chose mainly from the beginning of 1995, but at the same time said that it could later become applicable with a change to the percentage of customs duties if this provided better protection. The value of a dollar decreases as inflation approaches. In recent years, there has been an increase in imports of major product groups such as cheese and meat at full duty, an import which could threaten the long-term disposal of the most central agricultural products. In the 2013 state budget, the government therefore proposed a percentage duty instead of a krone toll of six beef, lamb and cheese toll lines with effect from 1 January 2013. The Storting gave its support to this conversion. The shift to the percentage duty will help to ensure the volume of Norwegian production and may also enable price developments to be brought forward in line with the normal cost increase in society. In different contexts, the EU has expressed a different view of the conversion from what I have. As Mr Nesvik points out, at the end of the month the European Parliament will vote for a resolution that is critical of the conversion, and the Commissioner for Agriculture said to me directly that he had a different view than I had of whether it was wise or not to convert to a percentage duty. I would like to stress that the conversion is in line with our international trade policy commitments. This is also clearly underlined several times by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have made use of an opportunity contained in the WTO Agreement, which was one of the prerequisites for Norway to accede to this Agreement in 1994. Since the inversion became known, questions have been raised from different teams, not least from Norwegian environments, whether we can expect counter-reactions from the EU. I would just like to say that the European Union has not met us with counterclaims in other areas in the political and professional contacts we have had in the last six months. From the Norwegian side, we have focused on an open and tidy dialogue. We have focused on explaining the background to the changes and have had a good evidence-based dialogue with the Commission on these. The conversion to a percentage duty will, to a very modest extent, affect existing trade with the EU and does not entail any changes in the concessions the EU has in exporting agricultural products to Norway. Moreover, the EU is well aware of the importance of import protection for our agriculture as it has a corresponding protection for its agriculture. I believe that the conversion is crucial for the development of agriculture and the food industry in the future. The restructuring is well received in the sector, it creates optimism and shows that the government is taking the whole sector seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e840	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I expected to receive the answer. I have taken a printout of the resolution, so if the council has not read it, he will get it from me. There is a resolution of 12 points relating to reactions to Norway. It has already been adopted by the Committee on International Trade, by a large majority. It was probably only five in the committee who voted against, and it was the greens. In this resolution – which is most likely to be discussed at the Strasbourg European Parliament meeting in the period 22-23. May, that's what's estimated – among other things. in point 7 that the Commission is immediately asked to negotiate with Norway in order to find a solution. In fact, point 8 calls on the Commission to specify the measures to be taken in respect of Norway if these negotiations do not take place. Does the Council of State think that at least a dialogue should now be opened to look at these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e847	I chose to travel to Brussels myself, completely uninvited, to meet the European Commission, meet EU parliamentarians and talk about these changes and other important issues. Of course, we must have a good dialogue with the European Union. The EU is a very important trading partner. Norway is a clean partner for the EU, and we always deal with the agreements we have concluded. Then there may be different views of things, and it is not so strange that Danish and Swedish politicians can have a different view of customs than the Norwegian politicians have. But the Norwegian government's task is to stand up for what we think is Norwegian interest in the food industry, Norwegian agriculture – and Elnesvågen, in the representative's own home country. I stand up as the Norwegian Agriculture and Norwegian Food Industry Council, and it is not surprising that Swedish and Danish EU parliamentarians stand up for their industry. So to another thing I've taken up several times in the quiz. There are some farmers, and many of the farmers we have in Norway – fortunately, everyone is very creative and thinking new – wants to have more land, that is, to grow more land. It is also quite difficult, because the County Environmental Protection Department is putting chains in the soil – in the soil, literally – for the production of more food. Then I think especially of cereals, but also of grass.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e856	I have not questioned whether Norway is able to go from a dollar to a percentage point. It is well within the WTO acquis. So that's not what's the question here. The question is the conflict that is now being brought about against our second most important trading partner. I think it's over 70 pst. of our trade through the EU system. Within the twelve points which lie here, where reference is made, inter alia, to: to Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, it is also expressed that we are to build trade barriers in agricultural products. We have actually signed that, even though agricultural products are outside the EEA Agreement. The Commission is asked to take action. After the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament has gained a significantly more important role and is now a greater factor of power than it was before. Then it was the Commission that was up to. Governments have obligations over all industrial activities in Norway, not just the agricultural sector. That's why my question is, Will the Council really do nothing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e867	When there was an EU discussion in 1994, one of the main reasons was that we did not become members of the European Union, agricultural policy. That is why we have freedom of action in agricultural policy. We use that freedom of action within the agreements we have. But then there are different interests, and it is quite legitimate that not at least some Danish parliamentarians have different interests in relation to export-oriented agriculture than Norwegian politicians do, because we have an agricultural sector that is more focused on the national market. But what's amazing is that in the European Committee of the Biggest, representatives of the second largest party of the biggest, the Progress Party, are connecting customs duties on cheese to Norwegian gas exports. So far, it has been in the creativity of the Progress Party to try to score as cheap political points as possible in relation to the ostetoll that even the European Committee of Stortinge even chose to say that this could affect Norwegian gas exports, or that Norwegian gas exports to Europe could be questioned. Everyone understands that this is completely unreasonable, it's just trying to talk a little bit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e874	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-08.ana.ud2306e887	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
