ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e26	From the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Susanne Bratli and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, there are applications for leave in the days of 20 and 21 February – all to attend the Winter Session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Telemark County: Odin Adelsten Bohmann and Hanne ThürmerFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Bard Langsåvold
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e58	Odin Adelsten Bohmann, Hanne Thürmer and Bård Langsävold are present and will take the seat. The representative, Jan-Arild Ellingsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e63	I am delighted to make a proposal to ban visible religious or political symbols as part of the Defence uniforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e68	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e71	On behalf of Morten Stordalen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to propose strengthening cancer treatment by making the Radium Hospital a national competence centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e76	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e88	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Grete Faremo, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, which will be asked by Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e95	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. On Monday we received a new threat assessment in Norway. In summary, the threat assessment was as follows: it is a multiethnic environment that is at the heart of the terrorist threat to Norway. Young men grew up in Norway who have Norway as a central enemy image. Several of these have travelled to conflict zones in 2012. Travel activities may be associated with and increase the threat from the environment when they come home. Ideological schooling, combat training and experience are taking place here. Mental barriers are being built down. But this threat assessment did not say anything about the picture that also took place last week, that we have an influx of asylum seekers, many – the majority – without ID. We were also informed that from asylum recipients it disappears between 2,000 and 3,000 asylum seekers every year, where the likelihood of ID is very doubtful. In view of the risk assessment carried out by the PST, the Intelligence Service and the National Safety Authority on Monday, may the government and the Council of State now take an initiative to address the challenges that are also in the concerns messages about asylum seekers without ID, as the Foreign Affairs Department has been given reduced resources and opportunities to exercise control and monitoring in relation to the threats that may exist within these environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e106	Only in order to establish it: the Foreign Affairs Authority has been given increased resources, and the aim of course is also to increase the number of outbound shipments, if necessary by coercion, but above all to ensure that the basic return requirement of Norwegian foreign legislation is met by voluntary return. There we saw a happy development in the numbers, which has also been referred here in the hall earlier: the number of voluntary returns increased more than the number of forced returns. Clear ID is of course important. It is important for the police and for the authorities to know who lives in this country. This is why considerable efforts have been made to clarify IDs through better technological solutions, better professional environments and, of course, good work at both foreign agencies and the police. However, we cannot conceal that in some cases this is very demanding, and that some of these challenges are therefore linked to the refusal of some asylum seekers to apply for residence by, among other things, ambiguity associated with ID.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e113	We've got these answers and get them at regular intervals. I get a little worried when the Council of State almost shows joy over the situation that we are witnessing, where between 2,000 and 3,000 asylum seekers disappear from Norwegian asylum recipients every year. It concerns at least the undersigned, and it concerns the Progress Party, and I think it concerns the Norwegian people. That the government and the government don't show concern about it at all, should have been a concern. Then again, the Council of State shows that the police and the Foreign Affairs Department have been given increased resources. But does it not see access to resources in relation to the challenges that the police are facing, because they are growing? For every year this government rules, the police in Norway, including the alienation unit, are facing major challenges. Resource access is out of proportion. Interventions were taken in 2005–06 that effectively prevented the Police Aliens Unit from doing an effective job of investigating and finding illegal immigrants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e120	There were different issues involved in that question. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs does not have the ability or the right to hold back persons who wish to travel from a reception. Although the Directorate for Foreign Affairs asks everyone to give notice to the reception and also to the directorate about where they leave, many travel from the receptions without providing a new address, and this is what is then recorded as a disappearance from reception. However, we have an additional concern for single minor asylum seekers, where we have a completely different routine, of course, with a view to preventing young people from becoming victims of trafficking in human beings. I think this is important to keep separate from the fight against terrorism and to ensure that we prevent and avert terrorism effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e125	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e128	Today, on the government.no, Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Council of State website reads as follows: ‘It is a growing problem that more and more foreigners come illegally to the country. It seems that human smuggling is increasing. Furthermore, there is an unknown number of persons without legal residence in Norway.’» This is clearly something that the Department of the Council of State recognises more than what the Council of State is willing to admit here. I've heard numbers that show that there may be as many as up to 30,000 illegal immigrants in Norway that we don't know where they are. Many of these come from conflict areas, they have considerable combat training, and they have an ideological consciousness. To what extent will the Council of State take action against this group in order to prevent the potential threat that these could represent?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e140	I react to the use of the term ‘this group’. Once the representative has referred to the Justice and Security Department’s websites – it’s nice in itself that the representative reads them – and the efforts we have made against human trafficking, he has a small visit to some of our most demanding challenges related to preventing terrorism, so as to end up with a reference to ‘this group’. We want a reinforced effort against human smuggling. There, the police — in cooperation with the authorities of other countries — make a good effort, which we also need to know to strengthen further. In a short time, I will present a message to the Stortinget on how to streamline our efforts to prevent and combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e147	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e150	Two weeks ago, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was here, and then I asked a question that I intend to repeat to the Minister of Justice now. On 5 December 2011, an overall increase decided that applicants for asylum may be required to report or to place of residence when they do not cooperate in clarifying their identity or when there are indications that foreigners will refrain from implementing decisions involving return, etc. How many asylum seekers are covered by this scheme with either a notification obligation or a designated place of residence? Does the scheme work as intended by the Stortinget in December 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e160	This is a challenge that we're working on along several axes, and I think I'm going to be quick to admit that we don't have a system in place, to which the representative of Greece refers, which fully meets the wishes and needs we've attached to the best possible clarification of the ID. This is part of the background for us to work along the axis to improve the technology to clarify the ID and to enhance our skills, to ensure that we have it in place – not only in central agencies, but also in the police districts. As I referred to, we do not have a system that imposes obligations on asylum seekers – whether those who have sought and awaited answers, or those who have been refused an application – to live in receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e167	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e170	The Council of State was in its first response to a group of our children who are concerned about the Christian People's Party, namely the 453 children who have disappeared from Norwegian reception. These are lone children who are alone in Norway and who have a basically insecure situation. Now they're on the run and may fear Norwegian authorities. It's the everyday life they live in. We have long called for action against trafficking in human beings. Now there is an action plan against trafficking in human beings. It is well described, but it has a small number of actions targeting this group. We want a centre for victims of human trafficking, child protection to be given responsibility for care, and special training for the police. Will the Council of State now come up with a strong action plan and respond? These are our children. We don't know where they are, they're fleeing from the Norwegian authorities, and they need someone to see, take hold and get them back into a safe port.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e179	I can assure you that this group will receive a lot of attention from us in the Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security Department. One child who disappears from a reception is one child too much. There are procedures for the follow-up of reception and the Foreign Affairs Directorate, and therefore for the warning of child protection, guardianship, lawyer and police. There's also enhanced manning in these receptions. As we are all familiar with, we have adopted legislative changes in the Child Protection Act to improve the protection of children who are exposed to trafficking in human beings. These amendments entered into force on 1 June last year. It is important to ensure that we have good cooperation on solutions with the child protection authorities for this group in our reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e188	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e191	The council guessed that I was going to ask questions, yes. The threat assessment presented on Monday shows that the risk of terrorist attacks has increased and that the safety situation is not satisfactory. The question is whether we now stand on the ground resting, with the same challenges and weaknesses as before, during and also after July 22. The 2006 Oslo exercise evaluation highlighted challenges at most levels. Important and necessary information was not provided and decisions were not disclosed. Lack of information and interaction resulted in a lack of action in 2006. 22 July was marked by a lack of information and interaction between the police and the defence, as well as otherwise in the state apparatus. This resulted in a lack of action in 2011. Exercise Tyr in November 2012 showed that, for example, the absence of a classified link has a significant impact on the ability to make decisions. There were no clear lines during the exercise, they led at the wrong level, and decisions were made at the wrong level. Lack of information and interaction resulted in a lack of action in 2012. In a recent reply to the undersigned, the Minister of Justice said that the actual planning of Training Tyr has led to better interaction between the actors. To put it like that, Egon Olsen used to say, "I have a plan." But most people know how those plans went. There were enough plans in 2006, 2011 and 2012, but there was a lack of action to implement the plans. So evaluation from several exercises shows that learning points do not lead to learning, knowledge is not passed on and the same mistakes are made over and over again. The question is: what is the reason why it takes so long for the government to do something about what has been pointed out over so many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e210	Preparedness has improved since 22 July 2011. A number of actions have been implemented and several have to be implemented. The July 22 report provides good guidance – for us in the ministry – on how to systemate this work. I would also like to draw up the special committee in Stortinget, which made 14 concrete recommendations on what we should ensure in the follow-up. Management, attitudes, culture and interaction have been identified as some of the most important things to address for us – at all levels of government. This is done to a large extent – not just in our sector – and it is done systematically. Changing management methods and ways of interacting is something that takes time. In a short time, I want to send a message to Stortinget about how we are now building a new Standby Norway – stone by stone. There will be new organisational structures, interoperability solutions we have not had in the past and legislation to ensure both better interaction and safer operation if anything happens. We have increased the exercise level, and we have a different and closer oversight. It's from practice that we learn to act well when something happens. Learning from practices, actions and crises that take place is also vital for being good when something happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e221	That's exactly what was the main point of my question, that you haven't learned anything since 2006. These are exactly the same challenges identified in 2006, 2011 and 2012. I think the answer really underscores the main point of Dagsrevyen's report this weekend about employees in the departments or PST who still don't have bomb filters on the windows. Things take time, to say it mildly. So I repeat the question: why does it take so long for this government to address what has been pointed out for years, and which is still the basic problem? A wide range of individual measures are mentioned here, but the basic problems of interaction and information were exactly the same in November 2012 as they were in 2006. Why does things take so long for this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e228	I want to take a strong distance from the fact that we have not taken hold of anything. One thing is that, as the Council of State, I accept such a claim from an opposition politician, but there are many thousands of employees on a daily basis in state agencies who are working to ensure a better preparedness and who have implemented a number of measures, and that applies to all levels of government. To claim that we have not learned anything, I will also distance myself from it; it is also not correct. That we get look-ups, not least in the media, about things that don't work well enough, I still accept. Finally, I would like to remind the representative, Oktay Dahl, that it is the Ministry of Renewal that is responsible for the security measures in the ministry. With regard to this filter that we want on the windows, it has, unfortunately, been so requested in Norway. I have asked myself how it has affected the delivery options, and there are delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e237	Follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Anders B. Werp.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e240	Governments say that much has been done in the field of preparedness and that much will be done. Then we had the presentation of the national threat assessment earlier this week, where the PST manager says the security situation here in the country is not satisfactory. It's been 19 months since July 22, 2011. A few months ago, we had Practice Tyr, where the evaluation report is crushing. Not only improvement points are identified but major shortcomings in the implementation of the prepared and planned exercise are identified. Here, in the opinion of the Right, we get two conflicting situation descriptions relating to the state of security and preparedness in the country, through the documents I refer to, and with the description given by the Council of State. We are the country's highest elected assembly, and then my question is, How can the Storting interpret the Council of State's answers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e252	I have nothing to add about the threat assessment that came from the PST. We're going to do a series of actions to strengthen both the PST and the ordinary police, and a number of things have already been done. In the case of Training Tyr, it was clearly very early that the decision time used in the justice sector was too long, and that this needs to be improved. Routines have already changed to ensure that. That Tyr was also an example of, was an open evaluation after the exercise, which has been made publicly available, and which of course should be followed up by responsible agencies. I believe that increased attention also to what went wrong contributes to increased preparedness, of course with the obligation on the floor to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e261	The representative Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e264	First, I would recommend to the Council of State not to distribute the criticism of this pulpit to those who work within the Department and the Directorate. The criticism that comes from here goes to political leadership, that is to say to the Council of State. No one criticises those who work in the office. We all believe that they're working their lives to ensure adequate preparedness and security. The situation is that the political leadership of the government does not take a stand and give ‘go’ orders to strengthen preparedness and security. My question is about the threat assessment that came on Monday. Finally, we have received a common threat assessment, which the Progress Party has been calling for for several years. And finally, we also get a counter-terrorist centre. My question concerns the content and who should work in this centre. I record that the government wants it to be the same people who today work at different levels in police and defence. Isn't it an idea to sharpen knowledge and crew in this center instead of using the same crew that we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e271	I am pleased that Per Sandberg acknowledges the work the government is now doing in developing a common threat assessment, as well as the establishment of the counter-terrorist centre. I think these are very important measures to ensure that we have good judgements and therefore a common basis for action. It is the analysis environments in the PST and the Intelligence Service that are to work at this centre. There will be staff participating under a rotational arrangement to ensure that you are constantly in a state of freshness from your own farm about what is going on. We start small to get started, but this is a center that the government sees can have a potential, and which it is important to ensure good frameworks around, and we get a report on how to proceed with this in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e278	Hans Olav Syversen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e281	I would also like to ask a question related to the threat assessment that came, where a broad picture was drawn of the threats involved, and from which environments these threats come in Norway. The council itself was concerned that she was not so fond of the characteristics of neither services nor persons under her responsibility, and that is fair enough. But yesterday we could hear SV's Hallgeir Langeland come with clear characteristics. He said straight out that the PST is too busy with the left-wing environments and has a political impact page. It comes from a government party. My question to the Minister of Justice is: does the Council of State agree that the PST has such a political dimension?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e286	I mean, as far as I'm aware, that's not the basis for saying that. What the service focuses on, and what the threat assessment shows, is violent extremism, no matter where it is on a political scale from right to left. Many of these environments I would also be careful to place on such a scale. What must be important is that PST acts against environments that can challenge the security of the state and that they do so through more effective prevention — and, of course, in order to avert action, if so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e293	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e296	Since Secretary of State Pål Länseth cannot ask in this Chamber for natural reasons, my question goes to the Minister of Justice. That is the case with the asylum-seekers. We received a big message, 'Child of Refugees', which would clarify the extent to which the best interests of children would be focused on immigration-regulating care. So in that message there were no legal or regulatory changes. Since that time we've had a sentence in the Supreme Court. There was a significant minority in the Supreme Court, and it clearly shows that the legal basis is not clear here. Judgments of the Court of First Instance The Board of Appeal has yet to say this: ‘The reasons given in the Decision create at least significant doubts as to whether the consideration given to F’s best has been treated as such in substance as Article 3(3) of the Convention. 1 requires». State Council Faremo said in Dagsrevyen on 30 May 2012: ‘We shall clarify practices.’;» It was also said that the care of the child is essential and should be taken care of. So the government says they want a change in practice. But then we know that UNE has said that there will be no practical change if there is no change in regulation or law. So my summary is the following: Government and the Christian People's Party want a change in practice. UNLESS there will be no change if we do not change the laws and regulations, and the Supreme Court states that the basis is unclear. Will the government then propose legislative or regulatory changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e321	The message "Flighting Children" was important. We then got a review of how children are doing in this difficult situation, which we have not previously invited Stortinget to discuss. I am very happy that it was done in a thorough and good way. The government announced in the notice that we would ask UNE to carry out a review – to which the representative Hareide refers – in order to clarify the practice. In the preliminary reporting that took place in December, it suggests that this review has allowed some families who had not previously received it but who had submitted a request for conversion. There should be no doubt that children in need of protection in Norway do. What we are talking about is the question of families who do not have a need for protection, and where there have not been any other reasons for staying in Norway in the past. The question is whether they should still get it. In the evaluation of these issues, both before and now, consideration of the best interests of children is essential when the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs assesses whether children should be given a residence in Norway. It is such that special attention is given to the relationship of children. In these cases, it is imperative to ensure a rapid decision. There is also some background to the need to further reduce the number of proceedings in force, both in the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs and in the Department of Foreign Affairs. Today it is between one and a half and two years in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e328	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply says that special emphasis should be placed on children's associations. But what we're experiencing is that these are children who have bid five, six, seven or eight years in Norway. They belong to Norway, yes, some of them have not been offered in countries other than Norway. Then it's important that we really get a change of practice. What I have to see is how we're going to get that change when UNE, who is dealing with this kind of thing, isn't looking for a signal in big messages, but stick to the laws and regulations in this area. So I want to repeat my question: if the government agrees that we need an improved practice to preserve the best of children, will one then change regulations or laws, as UN says is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e336	As the representative Hareide asks the question, a question about the best interests of children should be given a crucial role in determining whether the family is allowed to stay in Norway in specific cases — in any case. Then it is such that neither this nor previous governments have said yes to it. Neither was the government of Hareide himself a member of, chose to say that the decisive word in some matters must lie with children or children's families. These are very difficult things, and being predictable and clear I don't think at all is important for the sake of the families. This is not about the problem being solved if you move the fence one small step in one direction or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e341	Then there will be four follow-up questions – first the representative Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e344	I get incredibly proud when I see the great commitment of the Norwegian people around these children. This concerns, because this is kids who are born here, there are kids who are grown up here, and there are kids who have schoolmates here and belong in our country. So these schoolmates, the families and the kids are sitting there, and they hear representatives from the government say in the public debate that we can't solve this: we have to be careful. We cannot allow it to become a system that leads to children being used by families – being pushed ahead – in the hope of staying. Does the Council of State see that this type of opinion means that children have to take responsibility for parental choice? Or does the Council of State see that this type of opinion should not come, and that the best and best interests of children – including asylum seekers – are such that they should not be held responsible for parents, but that their situation should be at the root of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e351	I am responsible for following up the foreign policy adopted in this Chamber, and I feel that it is vital that the Council of State does not abdicate when we face difficult individual cases. We have also chosen to place the decision-making authority in the individual cases of the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department. That there are individual things that affect us strongly, I still do not hide. Just when it's storming at worst, it's important that we don't publish expectations that we can't meet. It is also important to take into account that the diversity of the world is such that we cannot rule out any of the instruments we are at risk of using, increasing the risk of adding new temptations to parents who strongly want to stay here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e356	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e359	Let me first say that I think it's interesting that the parties that actually have responsibility for the fact that there are so many children in asylum recipients are the ones that are also most critical of the system they've set up. Then I think of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Of course, it's the way our administration should follow law and order. My question to the Council of State is that this is a problem that appears at regular intervals, and if it is possible to say briefly, what has gone wrong? What has gone wrong with Norwegian asylum, immigration and integration policies when we record something so inhumane that children are in Norwegian asylum recipients for seven, eight, nine years? What has gone wrong with the decisions taken from 2001 – with the support of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Labour Party, which have made sure that we are in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e366	The representative referred to individual cases. Let me stress: I do not think it is wrong, on the contrary, I think it is very good that there is a strong commitment in the area of asylum. Not least the commitment to individual matters I think is expression of solidarity and a desire to help. Norwegian immigration policy presupposes the voluntary return of rejected asylum seekers to their country of origin. There's a part that's opposed to that, and we've discussed that in this question mark earlier. This can, of course, result in compulsory transport or through encouragement in voluntary return. Then there are also major housing challenges. We simply do not have a place to live in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e371	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e374	It's not long since the Storting treated this child on the flight-message, and there was a broad majority on the Stortinget who agreed to say all the government proposals came along. There was a minority who had their own proposal to do something about regulatory change, but otherwise there was a broad consensus that one should now put greater emphasis on the best of children, take the child as an individual, and give it an individual treatment. It is also stated in the communication – and I would like to challenge the Council of State – that once a year has passed since the notification was submitted, UDI and UNE will ‘declar their practice in matters with long-term children’. Will the Council of State then come back to Stortinget with a new case? Will the Council of State then consider regulatory change, or will the Council of State consider giving the possibility to instruct the Foreign Affairs Department, as proposed several times by the Right, and as opposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e381	It is right, as the representative of Greece points out, that this clarification of practice will be evaluated by June 2013 and, of course, we will review that evaluation and find an appropriate way to follow it up, including, if necessary, the Stortinget. As I pointed out, we received a preliminary report in December, and it bears witness that the foreign student has taken this message seriously. They've been going through a number of cases since June last year, and I think it's very important to get the full review that the evaluation will give us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e388	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e392	We've talked about the opposition in plenary before. Yesterday we also experienced the opposition in court. I'm not going to ask whether the Minister of Justice has any opinion that the head of the Municipal Committee is protesting against the laws he himself has been involved in adopting in this Chamber, but I want to ask about the concept of what to do with these children. The word ‘return’ is used when it comes to children who have lived almost ten years in Norway — and when the ten years are the ten years they have actually lived. Is it possible to use the legal term ‘return’ for people to be sent to a country they have never been in? Would not the right word here be ‘deportation’, which means to send people to countries they have never been in and never had any connection to?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e399	I feel that this discussion has been thoroughly taken here, too, by the fact that the Foreign Affairs Act has recently been reviewed and amended from 2010. Once an asylum seeker has received a refusal of his/her application for a stay, the condition for a stay in Norway is not present, and the return must, on the contrary, take place. The child’s concerns are fundamental when UDI and UNE assess whether children should be given a stay in Norway. It is such that special emphasis should be placed on children’s involvement, but – as we have been told in the past – it is not such that consideration can be given to all these matters and they need to be dealt with on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e406	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e409	To the Minister of Defence: On Monday, the Afghanistan investigation was presented, and it shows that 13 p.m. by the solar data, corresponding to 940 soldiers, believe that they have taken one or more lives in Afghanistan. How many lives there will be is hard to calculate exactly, but I don't believe Bergen's Official Journal bombs when they have the headlines of Norwegian soldiers, on behalf of magnificence and government, «Has taken thousands of Afghan lives». Of course, what it confirms is that there is a bloody war to which we have sent our young people. The study appears to show that the young people sent down there are well aware of this. 7 pst. wear after four years. A corresponding Danish investigation showed that 17 pst. by Danish Afghanistan veterans sleigh. So the question is whether Norwegian soldiers are two and a half times as robust as Danish soldiers, or whether there is anything in this investigation that is not quite correct. Unfortunately, I have now received more feedback that many have refused this investigation because one is afraid to be identified. Introducing a wide-ranging question of age, degree, length of time in Afghanistan, what other operations you have been involved in, etc., has led to many who have been afraid of being identified. 50 pst. Of those who respond, they are still added to the defense, and it may not be possible that if there is someone who is tired of alcohol problems and they are asked by their employer about how much they drank, everyone will answer correctly. My question to the Minister of Defence is, What does the Council of State think that there are many who refuse to answer? How do the state councils believe this has affected the results of the investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e422	The Afghanistan survey has been conducted to look at the state of health, in particular mental health, in veterans who have been in Afghanistan. It is an anonymised study and there has been a strong emphasis on the anonymity of the individual. In terms of the response rate, it's very high. Compared to many other studies that you do, it's well over 50 pst. which has black. That's very good. What is also positive here is that the health of the defence has also done an investigation in view of those who have not answered – because you could fear that those who have not responded to this investigation might not respond because they had problems with them, and they would not acknowledge them. But here they have found that this thorough study is a representative study. After all, it is important that we take the results of this study seriously and take note, and that we do something about what we can do about, further on. And that's especially what Hagesets bring up, if, for example. alcohol use, which can be followed up. Then I would like to stress that there is something that is being asked about in other defence positions, namely the relationship with alcohol. First of all, it's because it's important that individuals become conscious of their own consumption, and also know when they're at risk and do something about it, either by themselves or by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e433	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e436	I'm left with the same impression that when I read the Afghanistan investigation, when I hear the answer from the Minister of Defence that the government is more concerned about holding a great façade out than going to the depths of the challenges, the problems we're facing. The important thing is that we give those who are tired, a satisfying offer when they come back, but then it is of course important that we go to the depths of the problems that one faces. There are also things here that are omitted. Among other things, one has not entered the number of suicides. More people have died after they have returned from Afghanistan than those who died in Afghanistan. I feel that we have to go deep into it. So my supplementary question to the Council of State is: is the Council of State agreed that we need to get a real understanding of these problems in order for us to give the right supply to the group that wears?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e443	We would not have started this major investigation if we were not interested in the results. That's exactly why we did it. There are so many questions about health status and the underlying causes – which the representative Hagesetter himself has been involved in – just to understand how and why some get sick. We also need to do further studies related to this. I can assure you that this is not about a great façade, this is about us as a society being able to give our veterans what they have right and right, and what is important for them to work well in society as well. Fortunately, the study also shows that many have a good life — the most, the most. Someone's struggling, we have to do something about that. When it comes to suicide, we've said we'll get back to it. It's being published just over Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e450	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e453	I want to follow up on what Hageseter was about at the end, namely suicide. I record that the Council of State says she's going to come back to it, but I think it's a little alarming that you don't take it into such a broad approach as you have in this study. When you look at other countries, such as the United States. The United States, you can see some figures that are almost impossible to understand in Norwegian context – that so many people choose to take their own lives after this kind of service. I had really expected that an open and honest attention to it should be part of this report. What I still want to challenge the Council of State is that she says there are many who have black, and that she is initially satisfied. She also says that the numbers that are there are representative. This means that the government does not worry about the large proportion of people who have not actually responded to the survey, because she believes that the figures that already exist are representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e460	In this respect, the number of suicides: this is a survey of veterans who have been in Afghanistan. We know that 27 of these veterans are dead. We know that ten of them are killed in Afghanistan, and we know that 17 later are dead for other reasons. A study shall be conducted to compare the health records of the defence with the Cause of Death Register. Then we'll get answers. At the same time, it is not as easy for the defence in this context to publish these data, because they are so few, and it may not be possible to maintain the anonymity they claim. We'll look at that, but this will be published after Easter. Then we'll have done the further investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e468	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e471	There is overwhelming evidence of the type of sensitiser you are talking about in this case. Well, the study shows that we're operating with a number of about 500 individuals who, together with their families, have suffered acute injuries. They have sensitivities, mainly from Afghanistan, but also from Lebanon and Kosovo. The main problem in this context is that those who are assigned to follow-up – i.e. the public utility of the public institutions Nav, the State Pension Fund, the specialist health service, etc. – continues to be seen as a wall of problems for these 500 individuals and for these 500 families. What does the Council of State do specifically to address these public entities set up to carry out the follow-up services?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e478	We have so many measures that it wouldn't be possible to answer in one minute, but I'm going to start, because the representative addresses questions that I've been very concerned about, and that I also worked a lot with in my previous period as the Council of State. It is that none of us are satisfied until everyone experiences that they get the help they need. This is a survey of veterans who have been to Afghanistan — the main question. We know that many people are struggling because they have been, for example, in Lebanon. What is interesting about this study is also how the outcome of the new practice — what is done in advance of preparation for service, follow-up and follow-up — has affected. This may indicate that it has influenced in a positive direction. We know that many still struggle, and as a society, we must be prepared to help. We do that, we have done that, and then we're going to get even better to get even more... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e487	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e490	Everything suggests that these are challenges we're going to meet in the future as well. Everything suggests that the Norwegian defence will have experiences from foreign missions in the future. Most people meet the health services in the first line of care, i.e. with their primary doctor — the doctor. Some may have problems 10–15–20 years after you have experienced what you have experienced. My question to the Council of State is: how should the first-line service – the determinations and all those who meet these people when they get to the doctor with their first problems – identify what the problems are and be able to guide them in the system? How can you make sure that the registrar has this competence, when it is the case that most municipalities – once the Left has checked – don't even know how many former soldiers they have in their own population?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e497	A total of quite a number of people have been in foreign service over several decades, so this is about a large proportion of the population. As for how long after a disease can occur, we know, as Trine Skei Grande says, that it can happen long afterwards. What the psychiatrists also say, I also have to deal with them, is that the better you are to take this right away – that is, before, under and after – the less likely it is that disease will appear later. Nevertheless, we must be prepared for it. What we have done in concrete terms is that the healthcare system has been trained from the regional centres for violence and traumatic stress out to the primary health service. We see that it takes time to get that competence out, and all levels can't have all the skills. In addition, the health of the defence is very concerned about having that dialogue with the district attorneys and assisting if anyone needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e506	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e509	During the exercise Gemini at the end of May 2012, experience was gained with the draft new instructions for the defence assistance to the police. Helgeland police district learned that it was difficult to meet expected detailing requirements. There was a long period of time, complexity with regard to means of communication and intransigence with regard to follow-up. On 22 June last year, new assistance instructions were adopted by the government. During Stortingen's opening on 2 October last year, the police's request for helicopter assistance from the Defense Department was stopped by a State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The police asked for assistance from the Defense because of a terrorist threat to the Stortinget. On 31 October 2012, it was again ready for practice. The mantra for Exercise Tyr was eaten. Awareness-raising of ‘ability and willingness to act across preparedness seats at the best of society’ was underlined at all levels. The police emergency squad once again asked for the Defense Helicopters. The evaluation shows that they got a yes this time, but it took between 3 and 18 hours from the request received in the police department until the message was sent back to the requesting police chief. I read from the evaluation of Training Tyr: ‘Revised Assistance Instructions should facilitate the process of speeding up – without demonstrating an improvement in performance. Experience with TYR 2012 seems to be that the ability to deliver in a timely manner — and with the right content — is not significantly better.’ Further: ‘The day’s demand from political leadership for a high level of concreteity on where and how defence resources should be used under police assistance is inappropriate. [[JD and FD]] [[...]] This could create ambiguities and delays in the assistance.» Is the Minister of Defence satisfied with the way in which the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence handle the request for assistance in these critical situations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e530	Of course, I'm not satisfied if it goes too long for the treatment of this type of assistance. I can really just tell you how we handle this kind of request in the defense. It is true that if the police see that there is a need for helicopter support, there is an informal enquiry, for example, in parallel with the request to the department for political guidance. to the helicopter environment on Rygge, as this might be true, and then you get started and you know that you can be used. It happened in connection with the opening of the Storting. In the Ministry of Defence, we do not spend a long time dealing with this type of application, but sometimes we also have to make a legal assessment of the assistance we are asked for. I think society is totally dependent on that, without going to take many hours in that regard. Then it's cleared up politically, and there's no bureaucracy. I can assure you. It's a very quick clarification in a couple of minutes. As regards the Ministry of Justice and their handling of such a request, I believe it is right that the Minister of Justice should respond. But the whole purpose of being able to provide police assistance is to be able to use the entire resources of society. It will not be possible in a country like Norway to have everything in one place. But then we have to get better at providing it in a way that really benefits society when it needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e539	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e542	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security. Grete Faremo said in reply to André Oktay Dahl that we must learn from the exercises, actions and crises that take place, and that it is crucial. The experience of the exercise in Oslo in 2006 was therefore that there were insufficient orders in view of requests for assistance, and they were also very late. It took four hours after the request for assistance was sent by the Oslo Police District to the Ministry of Defence received the request for assistance. So we're going to write 2013, and it's just done a big exercise, so it took between 3 and 18 hours before the requests for help came up. We hear the Minister of Defense say that there is no bureaucracy, but that this goes in a few minutes. My question is, why does it take so long? Where's the plug in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e552	Some of the considerations identified by the representative Eriksen Soreide are the background to the fact that we have both streamlined the aid directive and practised it. We have been clear that the decision-making systems on the justice side are not satisfactory. We're working a lot to improve this. New routines are in place. It can't be that the system doesn't work when we need it. A number of tasks have been identified, which are the responsibility of the police, and security has — for example: 2 October last year – have been well cared for, but when it is our responsibility to assess when it is right to request enforcement assistance, we need to ensure that the procedures are working properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e557	There will be three follow-up questions – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e560	The question goes to the Council of State, which is at my side. There's been no lack of practice lately. What it's missing is learning from the exercises, and Practice Tyr shows that the picture drawn, especially by the Minister of Justice and Security, is significantly different from the reality and what the Council of State says. Back to the Evaluation of Exercise Tyr: ‘Revised Assistance Instructions should facilitate the process of speeding up – without demonstrating improved power’. The Minister of Defence is clear that the Ministry of Defence spends a few minutes dealing with a request for assistance. The question therefore goes to the Minister of Justice and Security: is she doing well with the evaluations we have now seen of the various exercises? Why is the Ministry of Justice and Defence able to use 3 to 18 hours when others can use minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e572	I am very pleased with the thorough evaluation done by Practice Tyr. A separate evaluation team was set up at Police College and the evaluation report has been made publicly available. I understand that it is thoroughly read here also in Stortinget, and that's good, for just learning better from exercises, taking the evaluations seriously and changing behavior has been my central message. The decision-making systems for requesting enforcement assistance have not been good enough. We have to get this better, and we work hard both with routines and through exercises to get it done. I have also been open that we must be willing to assess whether we can draw inspiration from, for example. the Swedish solution, although they have a different system from what we have here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e577	Jan Arild Ellingsen – for follow-up questions. Maybe it's for the Minister of Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e580	That's absolutely right. The question goes to the Minister of Defense, so we have the crutch going on here. So, as others have referred to, we had a situation during the opening of the Storting, where a state secretary rejected the need pointed out by the police. At the same time, we had a situation not long ago where the defense defended bisto to prevent a possible search in Stavanger. After that, I have seen that people with significantly greater legal competence than I have, have asked questions about whether we are now breaking the Constitution, about how far the defence can go in operating against the civil part of the Norwegian population. My question to the Minister of Defence is quite simply: Is the Minister of Defence 100 percent sure that we are on the right side of the Constitution when it comes to using the defence against the civil part of the Norwegian population?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e589	I am very happy that I got that question, because it allows me to clarify one thing, also to the Minister of Justice. I said that when the request for assistance comes to the Ministry of Defence, there is a legal assessment. It doesn't necessarily take minutes, it's the process up to political leadership that takes minutes. But of course it's a legal assessment, and that's exactly why I said instead that it's important to do it. As regards the aid instructions, it has been revised, as the Minister of Justice said. We are also in the process of legalizing it. We clearly mean, and we've had a lot of reviews of it, that it's completely in line with the Constitution. You need to know when you're giving assistance, you need to know how to provide assistance, and you need to know that that assistance is with the police in the driver's seat. We believe that it is within the law, but we still do legal work in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e596	Knut Arild Hareide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e599	My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security, but it is in line with what Mr Ellingsen asked. It has now become apparent that there is a lack of certainty about the legal basis of the aid directive in the Constitution. The special committee was very concerned that we need to get closer and better cooperation between police and defence. At the same time, we also think very well of Mr Barth Eide's forthcoming statement in the hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which was just referred to as the legal basis. This must be quite clear, because it is about the use of military power against civilians. My question is very simple: can the Minister of Justice also state that the new aid directive – and then I am thinking of the whole of the instructions – is fully in line with our own constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e608	Yes, this has been thoroughly investigated also in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, so I have nothing to add to what the Minister of Defence said. However, once legal work has been initiated, I support it, because we need secure frameworks around assistance from the Defence Agency when requested by the police. There was also one of my main issues in the presentation to the Stortinget on 10 November 2011, then as Minister of Defence. We have various assistance solutions from the Defence Department that are already law-abiding today. The Coast Guard is a good example, and we have the daily joy that the Defense operates our rescue helicopters. However, those are the serious situations, I would have almost said, for which we consider it right to provide a new legal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e613	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e625	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question I, from the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 8, from the representative Laila Marie Reiertsen of the Minister of Labour, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from the representative Steinar Reiten to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e662	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e669	‘The process of reorganisation of the 110 centres has been described as chaotic. From Telemark, questions are asked about whether the transfer of the centre to Drammen is sufficiently justified on a professional basis, including: in view of the risk of industrial accidents. Is the Council of State satisfied with the process of cutting the number of fire stations from 20 to 11, and how will the Council of State intervene, if necessary, to ensure that the decisions taken are sufficiently locally anchored?’ I just want to give an information, and that's that earlier today, DSB informed me that it's not Drammen now, but Arendal is a new proposal for location.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e678	The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has now launched a reorganization process aimed at strengthening preparedness through fewer and more robust 110 centres. DSB's proposals are not relevant for the organisation and location of the municipal fire service, i.e. the fire stations, only to underline it in view of the design of the question. The DSB is empowered by the Fire and Explosion Protection Act to determine the fire regions. This means that they can decide how many 110 centres we need and where they should be. In addition, the DSB decides which municipalities are to be connected to each 110-central. In this process, the directorate shall listen to input from the municipalities and other stakeholders, as far as this can be combined with fire safety considerations. I trust the professional process that DSB has initiated, and that they make nuanced professional assessments of what provides the best fire safety and general safety for the population. I am informed that yesterday the DSB took a decision that structure for the 110 regions of Agder and Telemark – here there must be something wrong, President, regret. The decision involves the merging of the two regions and the location of the 110-central in Arendal. This involves a structure different from that of the pre-announced decision. The amendment of the decision by the DSB is a result of the recordings during the consultation round and thorough professional assessments. This shows that the municipalities are heard and taken into account. As I am informed, fewer 110 centres will not lead to insignificant savings for the municipalities and the state. This applies in particular to savings related to investments and operating costs. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Board of Appeal for decisions taken by the DSB. This also applies to decisions relating to the reorganisation of 110 centres. The independence of the Board of Appeal and the new, complete and unwarranted assessment of a case are fundamental principles of administrative law. In order to respect this fundamental principle, I do not want to go into concrete aspects of the reorganisation process that the DSB is now carrying out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e696	I might have hoped that the content was wrong too, but then it was just the formulations from the department! Thank you for your reply. I stress that my question is primarily about the process, with Telemark as an example. Although responsibility has been delegated to the DSB, it is natural that the Council of State also has opinions on the process. Let me just point to two very central things. First of all, there are a number of processes at the same time, partly linked, and partly unrelated. There is an emergency number – there has been a discussion from political teams about bringing the different numbers together into a common emergency number – and there is also a discussion about the number of police districts, which may also have implications for this process. My impression is that the different processes have spoken to each other very little. Paragraph 2: A prerequisite for the involvement of municipalities and local emergency services must be that the professional assessments are available and known. They are, as I have been informed, not. Will the Council of State ensure that the professional assessments become available and known?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e705	I tried to explain what was the purpose of this process, where the directorate has the right of initiative, I had almost said the duty – and at least the authority – to initiate. This is a mandate it has had for more than ten years – a new law came into place in 2002. However, it is not the first time that these centres have been reorganised. It's done, I think, at the beginning of the 2000s, and also back in the 1990s. In terms of the process, at this point I will not be able to add much more than what I have already explained. Involvement is important, and in the matters that have now been clarified in phases 1 and 2, the result was different from the one that DSB gave in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e712	Of course, I expect the Council of State to take proper action. What has been a bit of a challenge here, and which must also be a political responsibility, is that the process has been chaotic. To clarify, at least local teams in several states have perceived the process as chaotic. So to one thing I don't think I got a clear answer to: one thing is a reorganization – there can be a lot of positive with a reorganization, I'm at all no principleal opposition to it. But a prerequisite for local anchoring is that the professional arguments and assessments related to moving a 110-centre are also presented. Of course, the operational fire protection will still belong to the municipalities, but it is clear that localization may also have something to say, for example. for learning between different environments, whether you have close and good contact, various things like that. There is the clear feedback from the local team that there have been no clear professional assessments that have been made available from the DSB team.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e719	I have to refrain from providing assessments of the process that has been carried out. Here, quite simply, the ministry has a complaint function that I want to be handled properly, and we get to relate to the different points of view as to whether such complaints should be received. The process is, as I understand it, divided into five phases, and this also has a strong angle on the implementation of the deployment of the new emergency network, which imposes stronger requirements on competence, but which also provides better opportunity to get people to escape if anything happens. The local fire and rescue unit is the central rescue element.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e728	«The annual target position of the police officer in Sogn and Fjordane will expire on 30 April this year. Although there is a short time for the position to expire, it is not bright. Deputy police director Vidar Refvik says on the NRK Sogn and Fjordane website that when we now assess a whole new police structure, we are waiting to appoint a new police officer. This creates great frustration. When will the position as police officer in Sogn and Fjordane be illuminated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e735	As Stortinget is well known, the Ministry has set up a selection to carry out a police analysis, starting from the full range of police duties and responsibilities. The Committee shall assess the use of resources, the portfolio of tasks, priorities, competences, management and organisation of the police. It's a prerequisite for strengthening the local police force. It is therefore assessed whether central administrative resources can be redispatched in order to provide more police force in the districts, and what changes can be made to better and more efficient police tasks. In this work, the organisation of the police will be assessed, both the district structure and the relationship between the Police Directorate, police districts and special agencies. The work of the committee shall be provided as a public inquiry by June of this year. The results of the analysis shall form the basis for the government’s long-term plan for the further development of the police. The Government will present the plan in the draft budget for 2014. As this analysis is ongoing, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has decided that new targets for police officers should be limited to 31 December 2014 and not six years, as is currently the case. We do this to avoid getting into a situation where, in the event of a reduction in the number of police districts, there will be a certain number of so-called superstitious police officers. The already announced policing positions, in Asker and Bærum, Vestfold and Rome-rich police districts, will thus be limited to 31 December 2014. During this year, at least the following offices will become vacant: Haugaland and Sunnhordland, Søndre Buskerud, Helgeland, Nordmøre and Romsdal, Nord-Trøndelag, Midre Hålogaland and Østfold police district. All of them are published for the duration of 2014. General recruitment processes will be carried out, with the Police Directorate recommending to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which will present the matter to the King of State Council. I assume that the constitution of the police officer in Sogn and Fjordane police districts will be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e750	Thanks for the answer. This case has caused great frustration in Sogn and Fjordane. If one sees this case in the hands of the PSAP — a reorganization of it — it seems that this has created great security both among the population and in the political environment — and not least among those who work in the police or in these agencies. The information that has now come has come through the media – partly leaking from director Anne Rygh Pedersen and the police director. So there's a lot of uncertainty about what's going to happen to these important instances in Sogn and Fjordane. So my question to the Council of State is: what does the Council of State do specifically to correct the insecurity that has been created – and to further the processes when there is a possible change in the police district of Sogn and Fjordane, a senior officer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e759	A good description has been given of the process under way in the Police and Civil Service Senate in the budget proposal submitted. The objective of ensuring a strong neighbourhood police force is not least important for our districts. That is why I have been very clear that we are going to keep officers' offices, police stations and police posts to ensure this. We need a better preparedness. We need a better prevention service. Then this is absolutely central. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has launched a process to ensure stronger emergency centres within the fire and rescue station. The previous question was devoted to this area. I hope the representative can take the information I then provided about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e766	Thanks for the answer. In the previous round, there was also great frustration over the processes that have been. I am recording that previous questions have the same meaning. I also record that the aim is to provide more resources for local police. I have a case from Sogn and Fjordane. On 1 June 2011, I asked a question to the then state council, Storberget, who conspired the merger of Sogndal Lensmannskontoret and Leikanger Lensmannskontoret. A finished case was in the department and was ready to be implemented. A clarification was similar around the corner. The police chaplain in Sogn and Fjordane wants to beat in hop Sogndal County and Leikanger County. All the municipalities are a few. Everyone in both the police and the trust machine is in a few and wants to join together the Sogndal County of Lensmann and Leikanger County of Lensmann. I know that this may be a bit on the page, but I want to ask for this matter – I want to know how it fits with the combination that is widely agreed in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e777	If there is a case where there is agreement between the local police officer and the municipalities, there is another case than where there is local disagreement. I am committed to helping to ensure a strong neighbourhood police force, of course in dialogue with local authorities. The police analysis that has been carried out is not least important to identify how we can better manage the police, with a view to strengthening the operational force. Now, the assignment of new police officers' positions has been cleared up in the Police Directorate. I am pleased to record that there is now an increase in the number of posts for all the police departments. That message has just expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e790	I would like to address this question to the Minister of Finance: ‘In VG 13 February, calculations by the Ministry of Finance are used to claim that the Right’s proposals for property taxes will provide ‘27000 zero-taxors’. Lower valuation of dwellings on the other hand is said by many economists to be an important cause of tax adjustment. In the 2011 tax lists, it was found that even SV representatives had an additional dwelling that was rented out. Does the Ministry have estimates showing the extent of tax adjustment, and what challenges do the Councils face with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e799	It is difficult to estimate the amount of housing investment made on the basis of tax considerations. Tax is only one of many factors involved in an investment decision. Not everyone who invests in an extra dwelling does so to save taxes on wealth. I guess this applies to both Right-People and SV members. Since 2005, the government has been concerned that the tax base of the property tax should be better aligned with real values. No later than the 2013 budget, the values of secondary housing and commercial real estate increased from 40 pst. to 50 pst. the estimated market value. This was justified by the fact that the low value of secondary housing and commercial property stimulates taxpayers to invest in real estate. Investments in real estate that are not profitable before tax could be profitable after tax if saved taxes on wealth exceed lost returns before tax. The crooked valuation can help to overinvest too much in real estate over time. The result is a lower overall return on capital than with a more uniform valuation. Differences in valuation also weaken the distribution effects of property taxes. It is both attractive and easy for people with high wealth to reduce their tax assets by investing in real estate. Since 2005, taxes on wealth have become more effective as a policy instrument for distributive trades. The stock discount and the 80 pst rule have been removed. More accurate valuation systems for housing and commercial real estate are in place. At the same time, the government has increased the bottom-up rate, with approximately 500,000 fewer taxpayers paying property taxes today than in 2005. The government will continue to work to improve taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e810	I thank you for the answer – there were many well-known tones. We agree that the wealth tax has become more accurate in that it actually hits the private, diverse Norwegian ownership very hard and discriminates against it in favour of foreign ownership. I also think the Council of State was concerned with what in and of itself is my element in this, and that is the dynamics around taxes. The Council of State said that if there were too many elements of tax adjustment, the total capital mass could result in lower returns than it would otherwise have done. I'm a little surprised that you don't have a clearer idea of how much that tax adjustment is, because it should be quite interesting for the department to analyse. I would therefore like to ask whether the Council of State will go a little further into the issue than the answer suggests it has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e817	In the evaluation of the 2006 tax reform, we went through the wealth tax. It's enough -- as I said in my answer -- it's hard to find clear contexts; there might be a lot of reasons why people invest in real estate. I think tax adjustment can be a factor that matters, but one of many. Otherwise, this is interesting with the relationship with foreign owners. What has emerged in the debate — but perhaps not so clearly in the Right’s argument — is that it is not that foreign owners are tax-free in their home country. They pay taxes on dividends, e.g. I think that argument from the right-hand side is tied longer than it holds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e824	We're completely in disagreement about that, but we're going to leave that to us now. It is interesting to note that the Council of State is going to the evaluation in 2006, because that review of the property tax was extremely weak – it was almost absent. It had actually been decided that the property tax should be paid and not on the basis of it. Then it is more interesting to go back to the tax reform in 1992, which illustrates the dynamics of tax adaptations. It was a very good reform that Norway has enjoyed very well later. What you did at the time was to remove a lot of adaptability, lower the tax base, and this is how you figured out the tax base. The result is that the tax intake has actually doubled as a percentage of GDP. Now I don't think there are such effects around this here, far from it, but as I said before, I don't think you have come in more carefully and analyzed how much dynamics there is here, I find a little amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e831	It's quite right, as Gundersen's representative says, that we're not going to eliminate the property tax. And then the bias distribution becomes too big. It is one of the important arguments we have for maintaining the wealth tax, but we will continue to improve the wealth tax as we have done, by increasing the bottom line, which makes people with small and medium-sized assets either drop or pay much less taxes on wealth today than in 2005. I fully agree with Mr Gundersen that – and this characterises good tax systems and good tax reform – one should aim to have as robust and good a tax base as possible. It was one of the main lines in 1992, that increased the tax base through, among other things, removing some obvious distortions of investment opportunities that gave rise to large tax deductions and reducing the rate. It is to the extent that you can also bear with you in the future when you look at the possibility of getting a strengthening of the tax base against, for example. lower rates, but there is a more general debate to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e838	I'm sure there'll be a reason for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e845	The question is as follows: ‘A part of the Norwegian strategy for the purchase of new F-35 fighter aircraft has been to integrate the Norwegian missile Joint Strike Missile, JSM, as part of the operational solution. If this is successful, it could have major ring-effects. The aim is to enable JSM to be sold to those who so desire and who comply with the national requirements for the sale of such weapons. Does the Council and the Government have several strategies to achieve the sale of the JSM missile, or does it stand and fall on the F-35 solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e852	Joint Strike Missile is being developed for the F-35 fighter planes, and is thus closely connected to our purchase of these planes. A weapon with characteristics similar to JSM is absolutely necessary to meet our operational requirements for the future fighter flight capacity. Our fighter aircraft must have an ability to hit and effectively neutralise modern marine vessels equipped with advanced self-defence systems. In the current weapons integration plans on F-35 aeroplanes, there are no weapons other than JSM that will fully meet these operational requirements. The United States has expressed clear support for the work on the integration of JSM on the F-35 aeroplanes. American support is essential to achieve successful integration. This support is also important to make it attractive for other nations to acquire missiles. With the support of the US authorities, Norway has now started to qualify and certify JSM. This work is a prerequisite for starting the integration of the missile on the F-35. With the successful development and integration of JSM, Norway will acquire the missile to our weapons arsenal to meet our operational needs. Finally integrated on F-35 aeroplanes, JSM is expected to have a high potential for sale to other F-35 nations. Kongsberg Defence Systems has itself estimated a sales potential of between 20 and 25 billion. kr. Integration of JSM on F-35 aeroplanes has been primarily used to meet our own operational needs. It's at the same time, in our opinion, also the best strategy to succeed in reselling JSM to other users.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e865	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's good that you have a good strategy when you want to achieve a goal. At the same time, I might have believed and hoped that the government was even more offensive to this. I had the pleasure of visiting the Boeing factory just before Christmas and looking at the new maritime surveillance planes they're making, the so-called P-8, which is going to be a substitute for P-3 Orion, as well. Norway has. I guess we also have an ambition that we have a beautiful day to do something, either to buy new maritime surveillance aircraft or to do something else. One of the things we talked about at least over there was that one also on board the maritime surveillance planes has the ability to integrate JSM missiles. It is also the way to deliver approx. today. 120 planes to the US Navy, which in turn will lead to a fairly large volume. My question is, is it smart to limit the thinking to F-35, or should one also consider the potential that this missile could have within other parts of the air defence, to use such a concept?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e874	What makes us focus on F-35 is because this missile is specially adapted to – along with the plane – meet one of our operational needs. It is very expensive and comprehensive to integrate a missile into the aircraft, and it must be prioritised. That's why we've been very busy getting the American support in the program, which we now experience to have, and which is very important to us in order for us to achieve that. It's not necessarily that this prevents others from using it, but it's most likely that where it's already adapted, you'll have the greatest chance of getting to the customers. It goes without saying, because this is about economics and advanced technology, and it takes a lot of resources to succeed in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e879	I have learned in politics that you should not see limitations, you should see opportunities. That is why I might have wanted the Council of State to be more offensive, but okay enough. Another thing that strikes me is that one of the great mantras currently is ‘smart defence’, because most nations — perhaps with the exception of Norway — have economic challenges in getting their defence budgets to be at a level they should be. Then I think, if we can do things another way, smarter, it can't be useful, for example. The entire NATO alliance? Can the Council of State imagine a more untraditional way of doing things? As a producer country of the JSM missile, can we offer package solutions to other NATO countries where we also make some kind of funding package through state-to-state relations, just as when we trade weapons with others, since we have the competence, the capacity and the economic muscles to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e886	I want to say that just that Norway has ordered these planes, that we have made an investment plan, that we have made an acquisition plan, and that the Stortinget has approved it, and that we have also developed these missiles, shows that there is nothing wrong with our offensiveness. At least we won't be put on that. So I remember a lot of discussions about both the acquisition of combat aircraft and other things, so I think you should be a little careful about ‘shooting’ on the defence minister not being offensive enough. But in the case of ‘Smart Defence’, I fully agree that it is very important. It's important that we think about how we can work together, how we can do things better, and that's not necessarily something in the way of doing this elsewhere, but it costs a lot of money. This will also be presented to the Stortinget, in relation to integration, the development costs here, because it is not just to take missiles; it must take care of the plane, and it must also be technological.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e897	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The private examination scheme is a safety valve that allows for re-examination to improve their grades or to take examinations without being associated with the normal school system. The offer of the private examination is used both by young people and adults to provide evidence of competence and to provide the necessary basis for admission to other education. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Privatist scheme will continue to be available to those who need it in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e906	The scheme of the private examination means that everyone should have the opportunity to demonstrate his/her professional competence. This is an important opportunity both for those who have not received a full diploma in the past, for those who want to take a course they have not had before, and for those who want to improve one or more grades. There are increasing numbers who sign up for the Privatist Exam. The Ministry of Knowledge therefore asked the Directorate of Education last year to review the Privatist Examination Scheme and assess the need for changes. The Directorate responded to the mission in December and then made a number of proposals. These proposals have not been finalised and they have not been consulted. The proposals are now being evaluated in the Department. If the conclusion is that these proposals should be examined more closely, the Directorate will be instructed to do so. If, following such an investigation, it is appropriate to propose changes to the current system of the private examination, the proposals will be sent to the hearing. I am concerned that the Privatist system will work well and as intended, and that it will still be possible to demonstrate its competence in this way. Therefore, a thorough assessment of the need to make changes to the current scheme is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e915	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is clear that the wording that came in the evening post has produced reactions. There are real concerns, both from private school teams, who use the scheme, and also from study associations, which have many adults who, for different reasons, have to take a new course and who, among other things, have to take a new course. will go up to the letter, and then you can see that the solutions that were outlined could mean a huge increase in costs for them. We live in a society where there is still a need to raise our competences, we stimulate the population to take more education, but I also think that what People's University pointed out in a reference to me is a point – that adults who retrain have good reasons for it, and if it becomes three times as expensive, it will also have a social impact, namely that those who need it the most, then will not be able to afford to take the exams they actually need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e922	The question of how much it will cost to go up as a private individual I have asked the Education Directorate to look at – not least because the Municipality of Oslo approached me about the fact that the cost of conducting the private examination now exceeds the income from what is the candidate's trial fee. The county councils agree that it costs between 400 and 2,500 kroner to ensure that a private examination is held, while the fees are much lower. I agree that one should be careful to leave the price to be able to go up as a retailer an effective instrument in relation to regulation, because it can very quickly get unfortunate results, but I think it is reasonable that an assessor might consider different aspects of this. And now I've just received these different assessments from the Education Directorate, and on the basis of the contact from the Municipality of Oslo and many other counties, I think it's reasonable that you also look at whether there's anything you can do about the costs. I guess that's why the Municipality of Oslo has addressed me about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e929	I have tried to investigate when Stortinget was last involved in this case, and we actually have to go back to the mid-1990s, in 1995 and 1996. At that time, the Stortinget was very clear about what kind of principles should be on the basis of – that you should have the opportunity to document your knowledge, that there should be an opportunity to improve your previous grades in order to get into the education you want. And this with being able to deepen themselves in the trades was also underlined, that one would have an opportunity to do so through the privatist system. But I'm not reassured by the answer the State Secretary gave me about what kind of treatment you saw. The Council of State now says that it is considered to investigate further what has come from the Directorate, but when it is 18 years since the Stortinget discussed this last: will the Council of State now ensure that the Stortinget will participate in this important debate in a different way than simply possibly to have price adjustments presented as part of the government budget proposal – that we actually get a separate case for the Stortinget about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e934	Of course, if the Stortinget needs to discuss various proposals relating to the private examination, we will ensure that they are promoted for the Stortinget. It may be made in a budget proposal or otherwise. In any case, the issue of fees is dealt with in connection with the budget proposal for Stortinget, so that side of the case we will come back to anyway. The challenge here is to find the balance between the need we have for adults and others who need to document their skills, have the opportunity to do so, while – I say – not going – inflation in an endless improvement in grades just to get into the next study. Because it can make a lot of people spend a lot of time studying that they're really very well qualified to get into, just because the queue needs to be better arranged. This balance point we have to get. I say as I said in my first answer: we have now received this assessment from the Education Directorate, and if I'm going to go on with this, it will be both a hearing and a possible presentation to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e952	This issue is postponed, as the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e959	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions – on my part also called the Minister for Maritime Food: ‘According to the Marine Research Institute, the solder population is high in 2013. At the same time, the spawning stock of North Eastern cod, screaming, is at an historically high level. When fishing for solders in the Barents Sea it is almost impossible to get cod in the nut or trawl. Subject to Section 16 of the Marine Resource Act, the Fisheries Directorate may close areas if by-catch exceeds certain ratios. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend current by-catch-related legislation and provide the Institute with sufficient resources to implement properly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e968	We have a target for a selective and pure seismic fishery in the Barents Sea. Selective soldering involves fishing for the quota species, i.e. solders, and not cod or other species. To get to this, it is among other things. established by-catch rules. The main principle is that interference with cod is not allowed, but at the same time we are fully aware that unavoidable by-catch occurs. In order to keep the unavoidable by-catch of cod and other fish species as low as possible, criteria for the closure of fishing grounds have also been established. Both the Directorate of Fisheries and the Coast Guard follow the fishing for soldering densely, and, like previous years, this season has also been closed for sea areas where the incorporation of cod is too large. Actual closures have been made on the basis of samples far above the established incorporation criterion. If the by-catch rules were to be changed and a major cod interference was allowed in the catches, it would be problematic both in terms of the objective of operating a clean pilot fishing and in terms of the distribution of the cod. Increased by-catch will involve a greater take-off of cod in soldering and this by-catch must also necessarily be offset against the cod quota. The purse seine vessels fishing for the majority of the Norwegian lot quota do not have a cod quota. The question then arises in the case of vessels which are to be reduced in cod in order to allow pilots to fish more. The ambition of clean pilot fishing is established and the applicable legislation is laid down to ensure this. But if the industry – or, for that matter, anyone else – should have an idea of how this can be solved in another way, I would like to listen. We spend a lot of money on marine research in Norway. The total financial envelope for the Marine Research Institute in the 2013 allocation letter is approximately 1 billion. kr. So the marine research institute has enough money to do well. At the same time, it is clear that you can never get enough done. For that, the sea is too big. However, the recent evaluation of the Marine Research Institute shows that they are bottom-solid in traditional fisheries research. They're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e981	I thank the Minister for the answer. We obviously have to get back to the research on the sea, because there is a significant gap in what both the industry and the marine research institute themselves have pointed out at a meeting that the Council of State was at as late as last week, linked, among other things, to. the spread of the mackerel population. Yesterday I spoke to a ring-notor who is fishing in the Barents Sea. The problem they have now is not whether or not they find lots. The problem now is to find small enough fields, which makes it possible to throw the note without detonating it. In addition, the actual risk of cod interference is so great because the population in the Barents Sea has never been higher. So what you're allowed to do as a bycatch is 0.035 pst. This means that if you get 300 tons of weight, which is normal for these catches, you might have approx. 110 to 115 kg with cod in that catch. The problem can be solved by increasing the by-catch you can have. You don't have to do anything more sophisticated than that. Will the Council of State take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e990	Of course, I have obtained the facts in the matter with regard to all the checks that have been carried out, and I have a fairly good overview of the actual interference that has been. And yes, there's a lot of cod in the sea. I'm very happy about that. Then I see that the actual meddling figures before closing the fields are very much higher than the one – call it – the limit that is set. I have also looked at how much weight that has actually been fished in the Barents Sea this season. To date, 83 000 tonnes of an quota of 112000 have been fished this year. At the same time last year, 40 000 tonnes were fished. So it can at least look like it's possible to carry out the actual fisheries, and that the fishermen get it. But as I say, there is a flexibility here in terms of the tests and examinations that have been taken, before closing the fields – and reopening them, because it must also be said that they have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e999	Of course, I thank the Council of State for the answer, but the issue comes, among other things. from the Hardhaus case. In 2010, the boat «Hardhaus» got 640 kg of cod in a 500-tonne roll of solders. This resulted in a fine of 1.4 million. kr. “Hardhaus” has now won this case – we will see how it works at the end – but it only shows this issue. In the case of the ring notary I spoke to yesterday: The problem when you go looking for solders is that the cod is lying and eating on the solder, especially the big lot. Is there no movement in the Council of State towards being able to look at that interference? So it's 0.035 pst. You can have today. If you, for example, If we could increase slightly, we would at least ensure that these fishermen get a better daily life and a simpler fishing, which the Council should also be interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1006	Now I do not comment on individual matters, but as I said, I have the overall picture. The reality is that this is cod interference that is far above them – call it – 0.35 pst. as the representative of Nesvik refers to. There is therefore a flexibility in the implementation of the fishing that shows, at least in my mind and in my terms, that they have actually completed it, all the time that it has been fishing much more weight – over twice as much – this year as at the same time last year. In fact, we're getting closer to the fact that the entire mass ratio is confiscated. That tells me one thing, and that's that there's a flexibility on the basis of this. But if we're going to go in and discuss a fixed higher by-catch stock, I think we have to include a wider range of participants, not least those who have cod fishing as their main industry. I am absolutely sure that if you want to check out and deal with one group, you will at least get another group who has a view on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1013	I have to make a correction, just to point it out for the record: I didn't say 0.35 pst., I said 0.035 pst. as mixing bits, so that it can be correctly recorded in the record.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1018	Then I'm going to use the same percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1023	That will be stated in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1031	‘FMC BioPolymer in the municipality of Karmøy has applied for sample harvesting of larger quantities off the coast of North Trundelag and Nordland, as they have for regular harvesting in five counties today. The company has been sold out for its products, such as: used in medical research and medicine. The annual harvest is 170 000 tonnes of seaweed, while 7 million tonnes disappear in annual storms. The tare industry is based on renewable resources, contributing to Norwegian research, development and export. Does the Council share my view that more places should be opened for harvesting?»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1038	Coastal seaweed vegetation is high-productive systems that consume and bind significant amounts of carbon dioxide and nutrient salts through rapid growth. The seaweed and seaweed communities also have an important ecological function, as they provide room for rich biodiversity and act as shelters and food barrels for crustaceans, juveniles, small fish and large fish. Seaweed-related animal life is an important contribution in the food chain to commercially harvested fish and crustaceans populations. Disposal of seaweed could result in reduced nutritional availability and concealment of these organisms. Changes and reductions in the underwater vegetation can therefore have consequences for coastal fisheries, other activities in the coastal zone and for coastal communities as a whole. Most of Norway’s main resource is in the coastal macro-vegetation. Calculations show a standing biomass of 50-60 million. tonnes. Today it is harvested approx. 170 000 tonnes higher annually. Today's take-out of larger amounts to approx. 0.3 pst. of the calculated larger biomass, or approx. 2.5 pst. of the annual growth rate. So the degree of harvesting must be said to be modest on a national basis. However, it is claimed from fishing teams that this harvest has a significant impact on fish stocks locally along the coast. I am concerned that any effects on fish, seabird and other marine organisms must be documented and, if detected, sought to be minimised. Here comes both area management, re-growth requirements, harvesting methods and other measures. Since 2010, FMC BioPolymer has been operating a larger sample harvest in Nord-Trøndelag. These activities have been followed up by detailed studies and documentation carried out by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea. As of 2012, special attention has been paid to possible effects on fish stocks and advanced monitoring technologies are being used in combination with the use of traditional fishing gears such as troll nets and ponds. The studies have been carried out in close cooperation with local fishermen. Based on the preliminary results of this work, there is currently no indication that current administrative practices are not sustainable. FMC BioPolymer’s application for 2013 sample harvesting in North Trundelag and Nordland is currently being consulted by a number of key stakeholders with a consultation deadline today. I will therefore not prejudge the course of events and the outcome of that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1051	Nor was it my opinion that the Minister for Fisheries should tell us what the result would be. My point was really to decide whether the Minister of Fisheries is positive for harvesting bigger, and that the areas are going to grow northwards. Today, there is relatively no problem with four-year inferences in Rogaland, five-year intervals in Hordaland, Møre and Romesdal, Sogn and Fjordane and Süd-Trøndelag. This is always controlled by the Marine Research Institute. However, the problem is that this is high-intensity technological and research and provides a good nutrient base along the coast. ‘The blue field’ is known to the Minister for Fisheries. My question was really: Is the Council of State in favour of increasing the bet on the withdrawal of larger, among other things. in the context of medical development?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1056	Let there be no doubt that I am very positive to all the activity along the coast that is based on the marine resources. I think it's a great potential for value creation, both above and below sea level, based on marine organisms. But here, as otherwise, I am equally extremely concerned that it must be sustainable. We have to be absolutely sure of what we're doing. As I said in my answer, it's a fairly modest extraction of total biomass and of the growth that is every year. I think you have to be careful here, because if you're wrong, it takes a really long time to recover. But, as I said in my answer, there's now a piece of work done in the North-Trunde Layer and further north, which so far doesn't seem to have had any negative effects. Then we'll be waiting for further consideration of those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1061	I perceive that the Council of State follows up the bourgeois government “The Blue Gorge” when she begins by saying that today’s outposts are message-sensitive. So that means there's room for doing something more. There are concrete projects going on. I think everyone, both big business, directorate, marine research institute and actors, is really busy doing this in a proper way; actually taking care of the resources so that they get back up. This has all the preliminary evidence, as the Council of State says, shown – not two months later, but a few years later. It is important to ensure greater access. We have a world-leading administration regime, in which the Council of State is to be proud. However, it is clear that it is also important for predictable management of the industry that is reaping this – both reception facilities, boats, the export industry and research. Political stability is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1066	I don't think there's so much that separates us, except that I call it 'the marine ride', which I think is a better name than using color. The potential of the marine field is enormous — in this area and in many other areas. I think it is particularly exciting with microalgae, seaweed – something that can be used for food, other things can be used for bioenergy. We see that exciting research is being carried out on the cultivation of tea. One would have liked to have bred another species, which grows a little bit faster than large ones. At least I have no disagreement at all about possibilities. But once again, I stress: it is vital for me that this development must take place so that you can be absolutely sure that it is sustainable. I'm absolutely sure, as one of the most zealous speakers in Norway as the world's leading maritime nation, that there are also all the new industries, which many research communities have pointed to. We will come back to that when the Storing Message comes in less than a very long time. Then we can tell you more about how we intend to use that space of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1071	Well, then we'll see if the color of the field is clarified through the magnification message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1078	Now we go from sea to land: ‘I believe that an important objective of transport measures is to maximise transport with the least possible use of resources. Statistics from the Central Statistical Office show that road transport is almost unique in land-based transport of both persons and goods. For passenger transport, track has less than 5 pst. and weigh almost 88 pst. the number of passenger kilometres in 2011. Nevertheless, in 2013, consumers pay twice as much as the country spends on the road. The railway gets 15 billion. kr in State aid. How will the government balance results and resource use between transport sectors?»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1087	It is correct – as the representative Sortevik refers to – that the road sector has an important and crucial role in the Norwegian transport system. This applies to both freight and passenger transport. The road system binds Norway together and is the mode of transport that constitutes the majority, the country as a whole. Nevertheless, I must point out that the figures given by the representative Blackevik are an average for the whole country. In my view, it is difficult to use such figures to allocate resources across the different sectors. It is important to take advantage of the different modes of transport, so that, as a whole, we have the best possible transport system, and this will have an offensive and forward-looking transport policy. Then we can't use historical statistics to distribute the effort. It's more complex than that. A balanced effort means, among other things, exploiting and expanding transport infrastructure where the different modes of transport have their advantage. It means bets on the railway some places, and bets on the road other places. The representative, Sortevik, ‘rejects that an important objective of transport measures is to maximise transport with the least possible use of resources’. Let me assure Vardevik that we are maritime for the most efficient use of resources. The overall objective of the Government for transport policy, as set out in today’s national transport plan, is to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that meets the needs of society for transport and that promotes regional development. That objective is probably some broader than the objective of ‘minimum possible use of resources’. How the government is going to use the funds to achieve targets in the years to come, we will come back to the national transport plan, which will be submitted to the Stortinget in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1098	The government, which has soon run for eight years, has spent more dollars than previous governments on transportation. That's good. But the goal of modern, safer and environmentally friendly roads is as far away as when this government took over, and it's not quite that good. The goal is far from being achieved despite the increased use of road toll-funded construction by the government. The question is whether the government does not engage in some sort of train robbery when it increases State subsidies to rail in the Eastern region and requires an increased payment for users, which all pays much more than the cost of the user. To rewrite a well-known expression, never has so many people paid so much for so many people to travel so little.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1105	It is absolutely right that this government has spent much more resources on transportation than previous governments have. Not only that: more installations have been opened, are under construction and will be launched under this government than under any government earlier. This means that it is built, both on the road sector and on the railway sector, on a completely different scale than it has been done before. Then it's my opinion that you have to balance the advantages of the different modes of transport with each other. There is no doubt that beyond the country the road means most to most people, but there is no doubt that around the big cities is the most efficient means of transport. Railways should be developed so that more people can travel collectively, to and from work in metropolitan areas. Therefore, it is also important to invest in rail, especially in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1112	I thank you again for the answer. Per passenger kilometre on rail, the country pays a significant proportion of the ticket price. Per passenger kilometre on the road, e.g. in the case of express buses and cars, passengers pay the costs themselves. In addition, costs are significantly lower than those on the railway. The question is whether the government will continue to subsidise unprofitable, energy-intensive and, I would also argue, environmentally friendly rail transport at the expense of road construction financed by consumers. That's the way it is now. Large profits in the payment of user charges by users of comprehensive road transport services finance large subsidies from the State to the modest share of transport by rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1119	In both road traffic and aviation, there are completely different possibilities for revenue-intensive activities and payments to users than those on the railways. There is one thing that one has to do with the relationship between the different modes of transport. There's no doubt about it. This applies not only to roads; in fact, it also applies to aviation, where one has the opportunity to raise investments partly based on the State’s contribution and partly based on its own revenues. Nevertheless, I think it is important and necessary to balance the different modes of transport in relation to each other. Road is to be set up in the years to come, but rail must also be set up, because it is not possible to solve part of the transport challenges facing large cities without expanding rail as an important means of collective transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1128	‘The ash package is a collection of measures on the road network aimed at improving public transport in the municipality of Askøy. The project package is mainly funded by user payments, but also by a grant from the county municipality of Hordaland. Toll applications have been processed and submitted to the Ministry of Transport, but the response from the Ministry is withdrawn and, in the meantime, costs are rising. This case does not involve any cost or participation by the State. Will the Council of State now proceed to the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1135	There is a local political connection to the partial toll financing of an ashtray package that includes projects and actions on the county road network in the municipality of Askøy. External quality assurance, KS2, shall be carried out on the basis of traffic and toll revenue and work shall be carried out in the start-up phase. I can assure you that the matter is a high priority in the Ministry of Transport, and that a toll proposal on the Askøy package will be submitted as soon as adequate clarifications are available. See if it is the county council and the drivers who will pay for this project, the government has a responsibility towards the Stortinget to ensure the quality of the decision-making basis that the Stortinget has. This also applies in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1144	I thank you for your answer. So this is a package that is completely without government contributions. One might wonder why we have at all a system that leads to delaying state proceedings in such cases – I will leave that to me – but at least the state should really put itself in jail and do a quick procedure as long as it does not involve any expenses to the state. Rather, on the contrary, we should be grateful that the local people take matters into their own hands and finance tasks that will mean better collective action and safer, road-proof roads. Does not the Council of State see that there is a dimension in the matter when the State's slow procedure leads to increased costs that are not covered by the State, and should therefore give priority to working more quickly on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1153	It is such that all toll proposals, whether in the case of roads in which the country has a share or not, or in the case of county roads, must be dealt with in the Stortinget. A quality assurance of the decision-making basis relating to the proposition submitted shall also be provided prior to the examination in the Grand Duchy. That's what the government's doing in the middle of it. Skipping the external quality assurance process will not give Storting the decision-making basis for the type of toll projects. That being said, you have had meetings and recordings from the municipality of Askøy about this matter. One of the recordings that have been made is the question of whether this package can be taken out of the wider assessment of the transport base in the Bergens region and assessed on a maritime basis. There is an interesting question that the department will consider in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1160	The last answer from the Council of State seems to me to be uplifting. It is true that there is an ambition to have a regional transport plan in the Bergen area, but as some have done in the State Road Administration: to justify this because it is for treatment and therefore the Askøy package cannot be promoted is at best a bad excuse. The Toll Facility on Askøy will not co-finance other projects in the regional Bergen programme than the projects on Askøy, i.e. no cross-financing. In my opinion, the projects in the Askøy package should not have been part of this package, but it should be at my expense. But there is reason to ask the Council of State if she will work a little further along these lines and also look at what might be the factual justification that the financing arrangements for projects confined to an island should be delayed by the treatment of a larger regional plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1167	I must almost be allowed to repeat that the quality requirements in the decision-making framework that apply in the relationship between government and magnification are not allowed to go on chords with. But as I was in my previous answer, there have been recordings related to whether this package can be taken out of the more comprehensive assessment of the Bergens region, among others. because there is no cross-financing and is seen on a more maritime basis. It's a problem that the department is prepared to work on further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1176	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In four weeks this year, 48 wild animals were registered in Hedmark. This is a very high number, but unfortunately a number that is pretty stable. What will the Council of State contribute to reducing the number of accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1185	About 1,200 moose are killed by a car every year, and the number is relatively stable from year to year. In Hedmark, the annual number of moose killed varies between 250 and 350, but one can see no clear trend over the years. A number of factors affect the number of moose killed on the roads, and it is difficult to point to a single factor that is crucial for development. High density of elk and moderate to large traffic volumes, as on parts of the road network in Hedmark, increases the possibility of running on elk. Driving causes both suffering and death for the animals and material damage to the vehicle. Sometimes the impact between the vehicle and the moose is so severe that it also leads to serious injury and death. Thus, the state road system is working systematically to try to reduce the number of moose and deer. However, it is a demanding task to prevent the elk from crossing the road at the same time as it should be able to move as freely as possible according to old drawing patterns. The state road system implements a number of measures to reduce the number of elf roadways. In the construction of new four-field roads, game fences are now generally constructed to prevent animals from moving into the roadway. This is supplemented by over- and underpasses for the game. Other measures include deforestation along the road to make it easier for the driver to observe the elk, while feeding is considered to be a minor instrument, as it may have negative wild biological effects. In a letter dated 7 January, the Ministry asked the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency to assess the establishment of a cross-sectoral advice with broad participation as a solution to improve the anchoring of prevention work. The response from the departments will be available in a short time, and this will be used as a basis for discussions on further progress between the departments. Authorities will also make significant efforts — and have taken — to reduce the number of wild game attacks, both through concrete actions and by increasing knowledge. In order to succeed, I think it is also necessary for the individual road user to contribute, for example, in the area where the elk is tested. by slowing down in areas where you know there's a lot of game. Reduced speed may reduce the risk of accidents involving injuries to persons and to game.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1198	I would like to thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good answer. The reason I'm re-addressing this question -- I took this up a while ago, I don't remember when, but it's been a while ago -- is that this is something that happens year after year. Nearly regardless of how much snow there is, the elk comes, and it's going to cross paths. And that's what the Council of State says: that leads to a lot of animal diseases. There are also personal tragedies and material damage, so it's clear that we have to do something about this. In Hedmark we are extra evil plague. ==References== 25 pst. of all moose damage in Norway occurs in Hedmark. There's a reason for that, of course: Hedmark is a forest state with a lot of animals, and also a lot of traffic. Then there are some things you have to look at – I record that there is a sample that was reduced on 7 January, I guess the Council of State said, to look at this. But as I said, something has to be done now. This is a problem that has been going on for many years, and that is why I am taking it up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1207	I see well that this is a significant problem. It is also in several countries, including the United States and Japan. the county from which I sail comes, where it also feels like a great load. It is difficult to see very good solutions in the short term, and it is also difficult to see one action that will address the whole issue. I think one has to have the sum of several measures: both how to build new roads, and what to do with the surrounding areas in terms of deforestation, etc. – and also the responsibilities of road users. Otherwise, I would like to mention that in the case of Hedmark and Hedmark County Municipality in particular, it is such that you have extended the hunting time for several municipalities. For the Lion and Parts of Elverum, the hunting time will be extended to 31 January, justified by just grazing and towing problems. It may also be an action that can help to reduce some of the problem. But, as I said, it is difficult to see which simple, short-term measures should be able to address the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1214	I don't think there are any simple measures either. I think there need to be a lot of measures, and there may be a lot of measures that can be taken that are short-term, but that can produce results. I believe in having lower speed limits for a period in areas where the elk often crosses the road. The moose has approximated the same migration pattern year after year. It goes in the same area and intersects the road at about the same place, so lower speed limits for a particular period of time a certain place, I believe. I also believe very much in clearing the road shoulders, as the Council of State says. That, I think, is a good measure that will also help in this. I also believe in more signage. Although the Vegvesen has been good in the last few years, I think they can sign even more. I believe that information work is also a good measure. In many places that I know, there are also feeding grounds made for the elk, so it'll be easier for the elk to get food. Extended elf is also positive. So there's a lot of action you can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1219	I think that I and the representative of Bredvold really agree that it is both the sum of several measures that need to be implemented to try to reduce the risk, and that those measures are both about the road and about the area around the road and the road shoulders, and perhaps also about the road users' seas, about the signs, and about the attention you have to the problem, especially in those periods you know that there is a lot of moose that pulls. I also believe that one in some areas could have extended the hunting time, in order to try to make it also a measure in the sum of other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1235	This issue is postponed, as the Council of State has left. So we've come to the end of the ordinary Question Time of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-20.ana.ud649e1248	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
