ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e26	The President will allow himself to wish all the representatives a good new year and welcome back to our work in Stortinget. The representatives Karin S. Woldseth, Steinar Gullvåg and Jon Hunter Gåswatten, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for alternates, for Sogn and Fjordane counties Knut Magnus Olsen, and for Nord-Trøndelag counties Bård Langsavold, have taken their seats. From the meeting of the alternate of the County of Buskerud, Kjell Børre Hansen, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget during the remainder of the representative’s leave from 8 January to 22 March due to sickness. From the meeting alternate representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Bård Langsåvold, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on the 9th and 10th January under the authority of the representative Arild Stokkan-Grandes, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. Other alternates for Buskerud and Nord-Trøndelag counties, Nina Mjøberg and Ingvild Kjerkol, respectively, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e73	Nina Mjøberg is present and will take the seat. From the representatives of Are Health, Heidi Sørensen and Per Arne Olsen, there are applications for leave from 8 January to 22 March – all to take a master's course at the Defence College. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita OrlundFor Oslo: Mari Lund ArnemFor Vestfold County: Morten Stordalen
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e108	Anita Orlund, Mari Lund Arnem and Morten Stordalen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e124	Let me take this opportunity to thank the Presidency for celebrating the first day of this year's meeting for my interpellation. It was nice. Let me also wish the Council of State a really good new year. The Norwegian state is now well over halfway in the business cooperation that was initiated with the privately owned Aker in the summer of 2007 by the state paying close to 5 billion. kr for a minority association in Aker Kværner Holding, as it is called. There was an indirect ownership of approx. 12 pst. in Aker Solutions, the operating company in which jobs and technological competence were located. When this interpellation was promoted in October last year, one of the former business ministers from the red-green government had just published a book on its services for the party. There, Brustad regretted that she became angry – and I’m going to use the term “strongly irritated” from here on – at the state’s business partner Kjell Inge Smoke in the collaboration that was initiated, i.e. the irritation did not occur until a few years later. It was absolutely in place with remorse, although the reason for remorse was only that the address of the original irritation was changed to the ministry, which should have given poor advice. It's just an address for repentance, I think, when it comes to non-functional management of state ownership, and it's the one with the political responsibility. But such incidents sometimes require stopping and evaluating the decisions that have been made, perhaps even sometimes reconsidering and regretting, and then entering into processes of learning some of the things that have happened — in this situation in terms of how to deal with state ownership. That's what this interpellation applies to. Business cooperation with the privately owned Aker is very special in the state ownership context, and therefore requires a different frame and handling than the ordinary model of such ownership. Even during the red-green reign, it has proved to be demanding. The extent of state ownership is known as political disagreement, but the model of state ownership, namely that the State is a direct shareholder with the powers that affect the companies according to the size of the ownership of the different companies, under ordinary share law, has agreed. The fact that companies are governed by the guidelines established by the Stortinget for State ownership has also been widely agreed. Ownership size in individual companies arises from historical, partly strategic, reasons, but it has been widely agreed that minimum minority vestments against changes in the statutes, such as: with regard to the location of the head office, has been important and undisputed, at least in the case of ownership up to 34 p.m. In this way, like any other shareholder, the State has influence through the ordinary corporate bodies: board, general meeting and not least through the involvement of electoral committees. Perhaps we can add that with the winter hearings in the Control and Constitutional Committee still in good memory. But the indirect ownership of Aker Solutions is an experiment, and later on it has well shown that it never really went beyond that stage. It is a completely different construction from comparable state ownership – I am thinking of companies with commercial purposes and national anchoring of head offices. Unlike the ownership of the other companies in this group, Aker cooperation does not give rise to any influence on the location of the head office. It also does not, as a starting point, have a specific impact on industrial strategies because of the minority rights deriving from the law of the holding company, and it is in the underlying company where the jobs, research, development, etc. is lying. Then, of course, I am aware that in the spring of 2009, with a number of internal transactions in the Aker system that raised doubts about the reality of the transfers of assets, there was an addition to the shareholder agreement so that the State received a form of veto in the holding company for so-called ‘related transactions’. But this does not prevent cooperation from still appearing to be very special compared to other state ownership. When the ownership notification was considered in the summer of 2011, a unanimous committee showed that the purpose of ownership was to contribute to the development and management of industrial competence in petroleum-related activities from Norway. That was also the purpose stated by the government in the communication. We joined the situation. We're here. We're here. The problem was that the government did not notify Stortinget any strategies on how to take ownership further, how to help develop it, or, for that matter, what plans you have to liquidate it. This appeared to be very passively given to the episodes that occurred in 2009 and that led to the changes in the shareholder agreement. That was why the Right Party and the Advance Party asked for a separate case on the long-term strategy for this ownership. That's what it's like to become a freak in state ownership. Developments have also clearly shown that the State does not have sufficient influence on the arrangements made by the holding company and, for that reason, Aker Solutions AS. Even the supplementary agreement does not provide an increased opportunity to pursue long-term industrial policies in line with any policy strategies, as other ownership in this category provides. We have also seen, in spite of the additional agreement, that there are transactions between related parties in the Aker system that are not always clearly clear in relation to the fact that there is no discrimination between shareholders or in contravention of shareholder agreements. Last fall we had the situation of renting the ship "Aker Wayfarer", where analysts believed that Aker Solutions paid a significant overprice above market prices for similar rentals of a similar ship. It shows how difficult to manage, and not least how difficult to explain, this ownership is sometimes. We addressed this specific matter in a written question to the State Council last September. In his reply, he was not willing to rule out that it could still show up transactions, which the state has not been aware of and can do anything about along the way, and referred only to the shareholder agreement. But it's just direct ownership of a certain size that gives such an influence. Another example from recent times has been Aker's sale of 50 pst. in Aker Clean Carbon for NOK 0 – also there is a very controversial transaction. It's not always about what a board does or suggests that one can veto, in line with a shareholder agreement. Maybe it's also about what's not going to be treated. And that's why it's important to have a plan and a strategy for this ownership, now that you're well and halfway in the contract period. In fact, it was so presumptuous and original that long-term industrial and industrial policies should be influenced. I feel that the state councils and the red-green so far have only rejected any approximation to discuss the continuation and future of the agreement. I don't think you should do that. Interaction has not given any demonstrable political influence or power over industrial development, as proclaimed. Rather, on a number of occasions, it has shown us how expensive a person can pay for political renunciation. Active enterprise policy has been a sweet red-green honorary word – often attempted against those who do not want to be activist and act, such as drug addicts. in this cooperation, is passive. However, the experience of this cooperation should have taught the government much about how the desire for active industrial policy has ended in passive ownership. State ownership works best when it can be handled according to laws and regulations or according to broken principles adopted in Stortinget, for example: through the ownership messages that are an excellent tool to handle it. And it works a lot worse in structures that aren't captured by any legislation, and where you're also in a minority. I hope that on this year's first working day in Stortinget we can have an interesting debate on what thoughts the Council of State has for this cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e154	The biggest meeting day before Christmas and the Storting's first meeting day after Christmas are marked by issues of state ownership. That's good. For this is both an important issue for Norwegian business, an important reason why we have low unemployment and good employment and an important source of income for the country. But it's also, in an election year, one of the deepest dividing lines between especially the Right Party and the Progress Party in the opposition and the Government Parties. And first of all, let me say that I think it is very good that this debate is now in the body where it belongs: in the plenary or also in the business committee. I think it is an advantage that we take these political battles of state ownership here and not in the control committee. I think that also serves the authority and position of the control committee. The country's direct ownership of Norwegian business represents long-term financial investments, where it wants to contribute to the growth and industrial development of companies. It is important that the State manages ownership in a professional manner and there is a broad consensus that ownership should be exercised in the context of generally accepted ownership management principles. Over many years, however, there has been a discussion of how actively this ownership is to be exercised. When the interpellant is now concerned that the owner model in Aker Kværner has not given «political influence or power over industrial development», I also think the Right is starting to get on the right track in seeing how this ownership is to be used. We're going to use political influence and power over the companies in the way ownership principles set out. We should be as active and visible and clear and demanding as private owners are in their companies. There is good research evidence that active owners produce better financial results in companies. Aker ASA, SAAB AB, Investor AB and the State of the Ministry of Industry and Trade concluded a long-term strategic ownership agreement in June 2007 in Aker Kværner ASA, later Aker Solutions ASA. On 11 December 2007, the Stortinget decided to authorise the Ministry to carry out the transaction, in accordance with: St. pp. No 88 for 2006-2007 and Innst S. No 54 for 2007-2008. The proposal also restates the shareholder agreement and the statutes of Aker Holding AS, later Aker Kværner Holding AS. The objective of state ownership is, cf. the ownership message; ‘contribute to the development of industrial competence in petroleum-related activities and their management from Norway. The company shall be operated on a commercial basis.’;» That target's been reached. The company contributes to the development of industrial competence in petroleum-related activities, it contributes to the management of such activities from Norway, and it is also operated on a commercial basis. After the Swedish owners sold out of the company in 2011, Aker Kværner Holding is owned today by Aker ASA with 70 pst. of the shares and the State with 30 pst. Aker Kværner Holding's holding stock again accounts for approx. 40 pst. of the shares in Aker Solutions ASA and Kværner ASA. The State and Aker have made a mutual commitment to maintain ownership of Aker Solutions and Kværner respectively for a period of at least 10 years, i.e. until 2017. That means that the construction, as the interpellant says, is a little bit different than many other structures. And I can be inclined to agree with the Fleet that most power and political influence over industrial development and the company, as the interpellant asks, we get when we have a direct ownership of the operating business. On the other hand, here we get a much greater influence and anchoring of the company than the ownership interest and the invested capital should initially be mentioned. So it's a construction that with a smaller investment share gives us a anchor of the entire company. The alternative – to enter the operating company itself for a corresponding anchoring – would be a much larger investment. So the construction has its advantages, even if a direct ownership gives other benefits. Aker Solutions and Kværner have market values of about 32 billion, respectively. kr and 5 brd. kr. The Aker Solutions share was held on 7 January 2013 in approx. NOK 118 and the Kværner share in approx. $17 (U.S.) We are not satisfied with the price development, but the dividends in the period change the picture somewhat. The return from both Aker Solutions and Kværner shares has been a total of 90 pst in the last 12 months. It was much better developed than in most comparable companies and relevant indices. In the period 2008-2012, nearly half a billion have been received by the State. kr in dividends from these companies, and we hope of course that we will soon be able to determine a positive return from the investment and that by 2017 we will have achieved a reasonable return. Norwegian industrial history — including oil and gas — is the result of often untraditional solutions that have helped to build strong environments. Much of this has been controversial. A strong state ownership of the oil companies was also controversial in its time. The party proposed in its time to sell the entire ownership of the oil assets. Many proposals, promoted by the bourgeois opposition, today appear not only to be a mad policy but to be relatively incomprehensible positions that would make Norway a poorer country purely financial but also industrial. The supply industry for oil and gas industries is currently leading the world in many areas. Aker Solutions and Kværner are good examples of this and world-leading actors in several of their activities. Aker Solutions has made major changes since 2007. Kværner was separated from Aker Solutions in the spring of 2011 and is today a leading EPC company. on Norwegian soil, while Aker Solutions, following several structural changes, appears to be an international and pure-bred oil service company with global ambitions. A certain state ownership of central enterprises, such as this, may be of importance to safeguard Norwegian ownership environments, technological environments and a large number of industrial workplaces around the country. Key strategic decisions are taken at the head office, at the board and at general meetings, and national presence can help facilitate participation of Norwegian shareholders and actors in decision-making processes. The continued presence of headquarters functions in the country is also of importance for value creation by contributing to ensuring and developing specialised competences in Norway. Good examples of this could be the industrial environment around the Kongsberg Group, or the financial environment in Oslo with DNB as a central player. In order to ensure national anchoring of the head office, a State holding of at least one third is necessary and this is therefore an important threshold for the government. In some cases, the country can achieve such lower ownership objectives, and Aker Kværner Holding is just an example of this. But here too, the political debate in the last year has shown considerable differences. While some of us were very concerned about the fact that a job with nearly 1,000 employees – TV 2 – was flagged abroad, others were of the opinion, and especially the Right and Advance Party, that this with national ownership was not so important, and the flagging off of Norway’s largest commercial media company with a shoulder pull. There can be no doubt that it is important to have decision-making environments and ownership settings in Norway. There can be no doubt that it is important to have an industrially competitive industry with anchoring in Norway. There can be no doubt that it is important to have technology development and highly skilled jobs, especially in a sector where we are already large. This also contributes to the strong oil and gas cluster in Norway. The representative fleet asked if an evaluation of the business cooperation with Aker would be carried out, and what I think the government could learn from the model that was chosen. We manage the shares in Aker Kværner Holding according to the same principles as other ownership items. However, the construction of a holding company and a shareholder agreement is special and entails some special arrangements compared with those of the companies with direct ownership, for example. clear rules have been included in the works of agreement on how to deal with some matters of importance, including: related transactions. This is not unique to this construction. In private companies too, problems can arise with related transactions, that you can have shareholder agreements and agree on processes around these issues. We experience this as unproblematic, we experience this as a constructive and good cooperation, and we feel that the various issues will be resolved in an appropriate way and that the ownership structure we have through the ownership we have in Aker Kværner Holding contributes to the objectives that the Stortingen agreed to when the transaction was approved. I feel that we have a good dialogue with our fellow shareholder in Aker Kværner Holding, and we look forward to continuing that cooperation in a good way for the benefit of Norwegian jobs and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e189	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is possible that I expressed myself clumsily since the Council of State found myself able to quote that the Right would want more political power and governance, and that he elegantly overlooked that this was a description of what the red-green government wanted with this ownership, and which they were quite clear about was the intention of buying in this way. That's what's my question: Where is this influence, how is it handled? It's been shown a number of times that it doesn't exist. It's quite natural, because that's what the Council of State says, that this is a different construction, this is another kind of ownership, this is a minority ownership both directly and indirectly. He could say, perhaps at the time it was concluded, that together with the investor, that is, Swedish Wallenberg, we have at least a blocking minority in the holding company. Neither have you anymore – they had this as a relatively lucrative location from which they went quite elegantly. I stand by what I say, even though the Council of State is trying to admit that I am very much for the direct state ownership. We are to some extent in a number of companies, to 34 pst. But that doesn't mean we're for this type of construction. That's what's behind the interpellation. I think over these years we've seen that this doesn't work in an optimal way. It does not help the Council of State to tell us about the results, about the development. It would be strange if Aker Solutions were not to develop positively in the market we have in the oil and gas industry in Norway today. I'm happy about that, it's absolutely excellent, there's a lot of jobs. Nor is it the case that technology and heads disappear from the country even if they are foreign owners. We have a number of examples of non-resident owners of Norwegian enterprises – they are good owners, they even don't pay taxes on wealth, so they have more money they can invest. Norwegian heads mostly don't want to move out of the country, they want to be in their own country, and I often think that technology and knowledge remain in this country too. It is to exaggerate the whole thing to say that the state must at all times enter every time someone screams that this does not work in individual companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e202	It is at least a paradox that the Right points out that we do not have enough political influence and have not achieved the goal of political influence. If it was the government's goal, but the Right was skeptical about it, the Right must be all the more satisfied with the transaction if it has anchored its head office and industrial development in Norway, but at the same time did not give the political influence that Right is concerned that we are going to use over the companies. It is also a paradox that one is concerned that this does not give enough direct control through this shareholder agreement, but at the same time believes that there are enough 34 pst. ownership of the various enterprises. It is all the more paradoxical that two weeks ago we were sitting in another room in this body, in the control committee, and the main concern from the Right and the Progress Party to the seventh and last was that the state had had clear views of one of – I think – nine board members in a company where we own 54 pst. and that we made the recordings a little late for the election committee and minority shareholders to have a strong influence over the one person we had a strong opinion of, when we are concerned that the shareholder agreement does not provide sufficient influence. Among other things, we sit in the Electoral Committee of Aker Solutions and Kværner, so that we also have influence over the management systems there and can influence the direction of the company through the appointment of board members, which is the most important ownership influence. The Aktionar contract provides for control of the location of the head office, corresponding to a negative control, and related transactions have been part of this cooperation and management of it since the transaction was concluded. It is not that we are ready with oil billions every time a Norwegian company is in danger of being sold abroad. Transboundary transactions are certain to take place in the same way that Norwegian large companies buy up abroad. But it must be a paradox for the Right and the Advance Party that we now own 8 000 companies worldwide through financial items in an oil fund approaching 4 000 billion. At the same time, there is a call for the reduction of ownership interests in key strategic Norwegian companies contributing to Norwegian industrial development, Norwegian jobs, Norwegian technology development and Europe's lowest unemployment. We're not going to do it uncritically, and we're not going to do it without having good business goals with ownership, but it has to be that there's a balance between what the state owns out through the oil fund and what we own in our own country. We don't have to become a branch state in our own nation. I believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party are taking financial mistakes, but not least industrial and strategic mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e213	There is a relatively great insomnia between the opposition and us red-green when it comes to ownership policy. It's just listening to the two posts we've had here in the hall today. While the right party is concerned that we should change our entire ownership policy and sell ourselves down, possibly completely, by a number of companies and be very backward, we from the government party will continue to focus on an active and long-term ownership, at least at the current level of size. We red-green see the great values of having headquarters functions, decision makers and research and development in Norway. We will continue to focus on social responsibility, and demand that state-owned companies or holy companies report back to us, among others. if the expectations we have outlined in the ownership message are not followed up. The goal for us red-green is that companies in which the state is the owner should be the leader in their sector of low-carbon emissions and the development of climate-reducing technologies. The State shall be an asset, long-term and professional owner, which through its ownership shall contribute to the profitability and industrial development of the companies. This is important. In several media issues, it has been discussed whether the state should be able to make demands and behave as a large private owner would actually behave. In my view, for example: Right, which means that the state should be very retired and not behave like a private owner, nor be able to claim or impose anything in the company in which the state has ownership interests. That's the control to set everything - at least if you're listening to the right part. It's also impossible to get what Right really means in this case. There are a lot of questions about what the government and the minister actually want to do, but I didn't get a complete grasp of what their fasit is. It's a special case of this interpellation. I'd like to refer to the minister who said, ‘The objective of the State’s ownership is as follows: the notification of ownership, to contribute to the development of industrial competence in petroleum-based activities and to the management of such activities from Norway. The company shall be operated on a commercial basis.’;» This has been followed up by the government. I want to go back a little bit to Norwegian industrial history, also within oil and gas, because there are environmental requirements, triggering new technology, triggering technological solutions and being at the forefront that have been our hallmark. There can be no doubt that having an international, large, competitive industry with good anchoring in Norway has a significant impact. The petroleum sector is central here, and Kværner and Aker Solutions are two important actors. There are not many long-term private actors in Norway. It's few if it exists. The fact that the state has taken such a responsibility and contributes with long-term capital and ensures long-term ownership and thus Norwegian anchoring of the company, I think I am quite right. It is the future, and we shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e233	I sat for a while and wondered if we had read the same interpellation, if we were present in the same room when the interpellation was read up. In any case, it is not clear from the reply to the Council of State that the Council of State responds to the existing interpellation. The question is as follows: ‘Does the government intend to carry out an evaluation of the current business cooperation now that we are well half-way in the period of ownership, and what does the Government believe to be able to learn from the model chosen for cooperation with Aker ASA?’ Both the answer given by the Council of State, and not least now by the representative Heggø, shows that the question asked in the interview has not been taken inward. Governments could respond if an evaluation will be conducted to learn from the process. It is common in cases where we go beyond what we normally do, as in this case, to the construction that this company and ownership have been given, that at least during that process we carry out an evaluation. So my question to the Council of State is: will such an evaluation be carried out? The question is, do we have something to learn from the process? The representative Heggø just said in his statement that this company should be operated under commercial terms. And the state has followed up, said the representative. But it's just part of these things that some analysts have asked questions about: Has the state here been conscious of its role, or has it acted in many ways as a wallet for a company, where Aker Holding has been able to do some transactions, which have been asked whether the price has been right for those who have been paying for it? That's what's commercial -- it's not whether you're still in the company. The Aktionary Agreement has what it has to do with the head office function, and it's positive. The Progress Party is in favour of having a head office in Norway. We're going to have research and development in Norway. I just want to remind you that – as it may seem, both the Council of State and the representative Heggo have forgotten – the treatment we had from the ownership message in this room, where we just went through company companies. The ownership notification has divided the owner categories into four – one to four – according to the purpose of these companies. And then you have this construction, Aker Solutions and Kværner, which is a completely different construction than what we have in other companies. As to whether you have followed up or not, it is interesting to read what the NRK wrote in its time when it was about the book of Brustad, which said it turned out that the legal matter had been discussed. Brustad said about this case that it also turned out that there was some information she did not have, which she should have received. After the former Minister of Economic Affairs went out publicly and said that she was cursed, as was stated on the NRK News, it turned out that Smoke, who is a wrapper in jus, had the right on her side. So it turned out that there was smoke that was right in these things. These are the things you should go through and evaluate: Have we been good enough in the process? Have we been good enough to do exactly what was done? We know that the Council of State managed to get a case at a so-called secret meeting – which was not so secret, because it came out well, that meeting in Shanghai. Former Minister of Industry, Brustad, said that she thought it was simply bad done by Trond Giske; he could first of all have informed her about what he was doing, so that she was not informed by television and radio. What's interesting here, are just these processes, and that's the process the interpellant is taking up here. If we have something to learn from this, if we've got into it, we're going to evaluate, just considering how we spend taxpayers' money? This is not a matter of whether or not the Right and Advance Party or others want to sell themselves to individual companies or not, or for that matter to buy us up in some companies, such as good investments. This is about: Have we learned anything from this matter? Are we willing to evaluate, or do we just sit on our high branch and don't admit that we might have done some blunders along the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e255	We are debating a matter that has its origins all the way back to 2007. It's striking how things about state ownership are constantly finding the way back to this hall. I think it might be a symptom that a somewhat immature and unprincipled ownership policy is being exercised by the red-green government. The representative Fleet takes up a lot of important points in its article. It is such that when the State first owns companies, it is important that ownership is handled in a orderly and transparent manner. The government manages values for over 600 billion. kr on behalf of the community. This responsibility also includes an obligation to comply with the rules applicable to state ownership. The problem is that we sometimes see that the government does not follow these rules. We have had examples of this in the last year, for example. in the Telenor case. An important principle of state ownership policy is to provide predictability for other investors and other businesses. If state ownership is exercised as a majority power, we are in fact at risk of weakening the values of the community in the companies where the state owns. I believe that the lesson we can learn from this is that the state has to follow strict rules for ownership and company management. In Report. St. 13 for 2010–2011, the ownership notification, is described in the country’s ownership guidelines. Among the points we find the following statements: Actionaries shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. It shall be transparent in relation to the ownership of the companies by the State. Ownership decisions and decisions shall be taken at the general meeting. The capital structure of the company shall be appropriate to the purpose of ownership and the situation of the company. The composition of the board shall be characterised by the competence, capacity and diversity of each company. The Management Board shall exercise an independent control function vis-à-vis the management of the company on behalf of the owners. In the Aker case, I think questions can be asked about whether the spirit of these guidelines has been followed. For example, non-discrimination of shareholders seems to exist when the State, as a minority shareholder in Aker Holding, has to accept what appears to be the ‘parking’ of less attractive assets at the expense of the country’s ownership values. I also believe that one of the lessons in the Aker case is the value of private ownership in Norway. The reason for the purchase in 2007 was that Aker would be sold abroad if the country did not put billions of dollars at the disposal of the Smoke and Wallenberg families. The Labour Party has had a long-term strategy of eroding private ownership in Norway. Through, inter alia: taxes on wealth have been intended to replace private capital with State capital. I believe that the Aker case is an example of this being a bad business policy. If we had had a stronger private Norwegian ownership environment, Aker could have been kept in Norway without any problems – the threat of flagging had not been a real threat – while at the same time it was certain that the rules of good ownership were followed. It is an undisputed fact that the policy of the left has eroded private ownership in Norway. Every year, the Right questions the Ministry of Finance during the budgetary procedure. We got an interesting answer to question No. 58 from the Right Financial Fraction, dated 8 October 2012. Here we ask how much money has been paid into property taxes since 1946, and we ask to calculate the alternative use of the tax paid. In other words, we ask, how much greater would private ownership have been in Norway in 2013 if the property tax had not existed? The answer is $1,168 billion. kr. It's about eight times bigger than the Social Security Fund. This is a large number, and it shows how private ownership has been reduced over time. And it shows that there could have been available capital, available investor environments, so you wouldn't have had to deal with headless state purchases in such cases. Today, we are debating the shadow side of state ownership. State ownership is an important complement to private ownership, and can also help to maintain both key resources and head office functions in Norway. But what we've seen in recent years are ownership policies that are pursued by the input method. This does not serve the Community's interests. There is an unsafe management of the community's values, and there are no sound principles of good ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e293	I would like to thank the representative Fleet for taking up an important matter, but I choose to see it in a slightly broader perspective. State ownership is an important part of Norwegian industrial policy. If we look at history, the state ownership has been of great importance to Norwegian industry and Norwegian employment. State ownership is one of the reasons we have a leading industrial environment and low unemployment in this country. Not least in the oil sector, state ownership has been central to the development of Norwegian industry and Norwegian technology. The state ownership of the Norwegian base has helped to build up a Norwegian supplier industry, which is now world-leading. Large parts of this industry are on foreign hands. Within the offshore and maritime industry is over 40 pst. by industry, measured in value added, on foreign hands. Several key enterprises in different regional clusters are on foreign hands. Not least in the region I come from, we have a strong international ownership. State ownership can help strengthen national ownership in this industry. We have discussed the value of clusters several times in this room – not least in the offshore industry, which has several active clusters. National and state ownership can help to ensure that such clusters become stable over time by having national ownership, and where we have no other form of national ownership can also enter into state ownership to ensure anchoring in Norway by a very important industry with a very advanced technology, which is important for the whole of Norwegian industrial development. State ownership shall be active and strategic. The offshore industry has ours and is strategic for Norway. It is therefore important to have national ownership and state ownership in this industry. When it comes to the concrete investments in Aker Kværner, the Minister of Industry has done good for them, and I see no reason to go into it. For SV it is important to have an active public ownership and follow developments in the company closely. It also applies to Aker Kværner. Finally, I have some comments on Hill-Jensen's discussion about the property tax. It is quite striking that the Right also now talks offensively about removing the property tax. Just before Christmas, we were told that they were not quite sure whether to remove the property tax. Now I think it's time for Right to decide: Should they remove the wealth tax, or is it only in public discussions that they should not remove the wealth tax? In the business policy here in the Chamber, they are to eliminate the taxes on wealth. I think it's time that the Right ends with this double communication, so the voters get some idea of what they're going to do with the wealth tax. Is he going to go away, or is he going to be there in business policy? He's going into business, but he's going to be there in other contexts. I thought it was time for the Right to decide, not to double-play to position itself differently in the political debate in different environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e310	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and informative answer. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade’s ownership management is anchored in the ownership notification submitted in 2010 and is in line with it, as the Council of State stated. There is the objective of state ownership in Aker ‘contribute to the development of industrial competence in petroleum-related activities and their management from Norway. The company shall be operated on a commercial basis.’;» Norway needs to work actively to maintain its share of value creation in society, both by strengthening existing industries and by facilitating new start-ups. Svein Fleet's Right-wing wish to weaken the community's values in such a way that private shareholders can strengthen their position. On the other hand, the central party considers it important that the community has ownership of important resources in society and that national ownership of key enterprises is important. On the other hand, the right-wing and cooperative partners The Progress Party does not want the State to own. It's a well-known case, and it shows political dividing lines. I think the Council of State presented in a very clear way the cooperation with Aker in its reply. The return in 2012 provides a basis for optimism given that the investment in Aker can in the long term bring benefits instead of losses. The red-green government will therefore continue to take responsibility for ensuring Norwegian ownership of key companies. The central party will continue to be committed to strengthening the access to capital and to facilitating Norwegian and, if necessary, state ownership to ensure Norwegian membership. We want to use the country's opportunities for partnership, where it is about securing key Norwegian skills businesses in strategic sectors and avoiding Norway becoming a branch country. We will continue to work to ensure that the country's ownership ensures its head office in Norway, so that research environments, integration into the local environment and local anchoring are ensured in important companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e328	The present hear a little different, I see. The central party has found out that they would rather not have any state ownership at all, while the state council previously thought that I would like to have the most possible – at least as much as the red-green ones. What the Council of State and, to the extent that others talk about here in relation to the Right's attitude to state ownership, is not a paradox. That's just the difference between what you mean in principle and initially, and how you handle the current ownership at all times. We have had several issues in the nutrition committee, including: Right – and I – have said that, of course, you have some principles for what you think about state ownership. We do not want it to grow any more; we want it to be reduced. But in the ownership we're in, we have to meet our obligations, and of course we have to deal with it as best we can for the Norwegian industry, for the jobs involved. Therefore, this is not a paradox, as both the Council of State and the representative Heggø, for example, point out. This is a completely natural way of dealing with it. Go to the SAS cases – each time you have come to Stortinget to ask for money. There has not been anything that we have in principle wanted out of our ownership considerations, but we have established different relationships. When it comes to bankrupt companies that have to offer additional guarantees in a company that has just been sold from the state – we had such a case just before Christmas – it is clear that we are dealing with it based on that situation, but we want it to be handled in the best possible way. It's common, practical politics, and I think it's strange to use it against us. So the council says something quite interesting in its last post, which I haven't heard from the government before. He says that since you invest so much through the oil fund, or the state pension fund abroad, in foreign companies, there must also be a balance in what we invest at home. It would be very interesting for the Right and certainly also for other parties to hear a little bit about how to balance this with each other. I have to say that there is something I have not heard of before. With regard to private ownership in Norway, it is too small. It's getting too badly stimulated. And it's true, as someone here points out, there are few long-term, large ownership environments, but it's also due to the framework conditions that are not there for this to grow. Otherwise, thank you to those who have participated for an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e340	Let me first just thank the interpellant for having, through its interpellation, laid the foundation for an important and interesting debate. Should it be a clue that the view of state ownership, how it is exercised, its scope, etc. becomes an important theme in this election year. To the interpellant's question: we are in the middle of this agreement on ownership. We shall continue it and stand by our obligations. We also hope that it will provide the business return we hope for, as well as the industrial objectives and anchoring important decision-making powers and industrial technological developments in Norway. So to this with the balance of ownership. We have sometimes seen from the opposition – perhaps more from the Progress Party than from the Right – suggestions that we sell ourselves into state businesses to spend money for other purposes. Siv Jensen had a whole front page in the Financial Newspaper, I think it was, that she wanted to sell holdings and build roads for the money. One does not have to sell a single share in any company to build roads, it is the capacity in the construction sector that limits how quickly we can build roads, and for what the Norwegian economy tolerates from money use. What we get rid of by ownership interests in state companies needs to be transformed into other ownership. Then it will be in foreign companies. It must be a paradox that when we soon own $4,000 billion. kr abroad and for about 500-600 billion. kr in Norwegian companies, want a strong sale in this Norwegian ownership which ensures head office, industry and development in Norway, and which ensures not least good returns for relocating it in financial items. One thing is that there's bad politics – we can agree or disagree on what's good, and what's bad politics, we've been for many decades when it comes to state ownership – but it's also bad shops, and then it gets twice bad. But this gives us many opportunities to discuss. The discussion about the ownership message gave clear dividing lines for all of this, and I am absolutely sure this will be an important theme for the September elections. I think there are a lot of people who support the view of the red-green government, both that there should be a ownership of about the same level as today and not a sale. Then you can discuss the level of sales – the Progress Party goes much further than the Right, although the Right also suggested tens of billions down – how active this ownership should be, and how clear we should be in both the election of directors, the activity of the Election Committee and the dialogue with the company, but I look forward to that debate, and I will end by joining the Interpellant’s wish for a good new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e351	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-08.ana.ud2136e363	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
