ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e45	The representatives Karin S. Woldseth, Henning Warloe, Else-May Botten and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From 1 March to 5 March to take part in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Interparliamentary Union to Israel and Ramallah, a request for a permit has been submitted to the Workers' Party for the period from 1 March to 5 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Lotte Grepp Knutsen, is hereby invited to meet on Tuesday 5 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e77	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e80	On behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Elisabeth Aspaker, Bent Höie and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to ensure that several actors can analyse DNA in criminal matters to ensure better legal certainty and quality in the investigation of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e85	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President makes it clear that there will be immediate voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e99	The size shall select a new fifth vice-president under Vice-President Dagfinn Højbråttsen's term of office from 4 March onwards and out of the ageing period. The President is asking for a new fifth Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e104	As the President said, the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten shall be entitled to leave. It also implies the election of the Fifth Vice-President by the Stortinge. On behalf of the Christian People's Party's big group, I am delighted to propose Laila Davøy as the new fifth Vice President under Dagfinn Højbrätten's leave. I then allow myself, since it is probably the last meeting – in this round, at least – that presiding president is in place, to say that we are grateful for the job you have done. Now I guess I was a little unparliamentary: the job that the president has done. We wish the President good luck in an important position as Secretary-General of the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e111	Thank you so much for that. Laila Bavøy has been proposed to the Fifth Vice-President of Stortinget. Other proposals are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e122	Laila Davøy is therefore unanimously elected as the new fifth vice-president under Dagfinn Højbrätten's leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e136	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e152	As indicated in the interpellation, Kripos only presented its trend analysis a week ago. Many of the points in it are about organised crime and the major challenges Norway faces in terms of a more and more international image of crime. As an Oslo citizen, I would like to have this interpellation for the very last point in this report, namely what goes on in and around Oslo, primarily because it is one of the areas of Oslo citizens and people visiting the city, feeling it is the most uncertain thing about. All criminal statistics suggest that since Oslo was formed, Oslo has never had a lower crime among youth than what we now have. Probably we have to go back over 1,000 years to find a lower rate of youth crime than we have right now. This means that, among young people today, we are getting an ever-increasing bilingual division. We have the successful young people, the young people who complete the school, the young people who see a future here in the city, based on the assumptions they have, and who are not close to crime either. The fact that, for example, The use of drugs, alcohol and so on among young people is likely to contribute to a reduction in crime. We see that more and more young people are making the right choices in youth, but we have a group that falls outside. What the police say to me when we talk about this is that it's young people who fall out of school, who go out of high school, who end up on the side of the usual youth environments, but who still want to live the good life. Or as the policeman said to me: youth who still wants to have a cell phone, the nice branding clothes and all the other things that many of the kids you've been to school with before, actually have. The Municipality of Oslo has had many joint projects and many joint actions with the police to succeed in this area. It is about coordinating both the protection of children, the school, the city district and the measures taken by the municipality to get in early. City Councillor Kjell Veivåg, together with Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum, established the SaLTo project, where young people are taken on board small criminal acts in order to get their lives back on track and to experience a penalty sail with small crimes. Prevention is very important for us to be able to fight gangs in our city, but it's not just the frequency of this being effective against, also recruitment to extreme environments is about the outsidership that many young people feel. When PST e.g. working against both the right-hand external environment — with great luck — and the extreme Muslim environment — is about picking up exactly those young people who fall outside and who are seeking community into either criminal or extreme structures. Sometimes it can slide a little bit together. The important thing here is to prevent recruitment to these gangs, prevent young people who find heroes and find fellowship through the criminal structures that develop. Or as a policeman said to me, it's about developing a "we" term that's not just about the crowd, but about a good living environment, a good breeding environment and good communities you don't fall out of. One of the reasons I'm raising this is that in the last two years, we've had a lot of big, heavy criminal cases in Oslo. On 22 July, huge police resources were required, and when we get big and important issues like this. The Sigrid case, I understand the police who use all the resources they have and their best people to try to solve such disappearances. But that makes it possible for all those who work in the prevention field to be prioritised down. It requires resources continuously to downgrade the recruitments we have. It requires resources to be continuously vis-à-vis different urban environments. We now have parts of the city where weight gain in order to take a job, where we see that the municipality's instruments are short, and that no one in the municipality will work in exactly those areas. We see that weight gainers experience so much harassment and atrocities related to their job that they refuse to work precisely in the geographical areas where some new teams are now trying to establish themselves. The ideal job here is a good police job where prevention is prioritised, where preventing recruitment is a priority, but where priority is also given to entering and detonating these environments before they can get a foothold. What we've seen lately is that we've had shooting episodes on the open street. Just a few days ago, we had a very serious violent episode, which today on the news was confirmed that the police are investigating as a repeat crime. It's very important that the police take this seriously, because we can't accept that gangs take control of parts of the city, take control over quarter by quarter, so that the weights don't dare work, and the people pull out and find the areas unsafe. Suffering if most settlements happen between people in the different groups, and sailing if shooting episodes or most often occur because of it, this helps to create insecurity, it helps to make us as citizens of Oslo not feel power over our own streetscape. We also need to cooperate with the municipality, but it is important that the police use those resources. I also have great faith in cooperation between the weight and safety industry and the police in this area. I have seen in practice how good policemen with long experience from the city can work together with the weights and nightlife industry, so that they stop the gangs from entering this area as well. Because what we're seeing today is that a lot of the crowds that are under recovery are starting from different parts of the outdoor industry, in different outdoor areas, and then you also need to cooperate with the weight and safety industry to prevent this from developing further. So my question is: what does the Council of State think should be done to ensure that the streetscape of Oslo's citizens becomes safe, and that what is in Kripos' report is stopped, and that we should not experience what Kripos says – that we will ‘with great probability’ experience shooting episodes in the public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e178	Gegenger is one of several types of criminal networks. Typically, it is a – often age-limited – group that holds together over time, which carries out criminal or orderly acts and aggressive behaviour in public spaces. The thread has some kind of symbolic expression for group membership, such as names, symbols, styles, languages, etc. Reciprocal crime is part of organised crime in Norway. Crime is often profit-motivated, but also includes other forms of crime to achieve this. Drug crime, torpedoing, ran, violence, extortion, fraud and other financial crimes are at the centre. There is a lot of money in circulation, and there is rivalry about illegal markets. Experience shows that the threshold for the use of violence and firearms is low, both in the case of rivalry and in the case of internal settlement. The cases we have seen of killings, attempted killings and shooting episodes in public space, naturally create fear and insecurity and remind us all of the seriousness of this crime. Reciprocal crime was initially a phenomenon in Oslo, but in addition to the 2000s, there was also a problem in other police districts, especially in cities and agglomerations. Combating recrime is a high priority in the police, and in 2010 the Police Directorate issued the report ‘Police control of criminal gangs in the period 2011 to 2015’. The report draws up the following strategic objectives for the police’s fight against criminal gangs: firstly, to reduce the number of gangs and gang members; secondly, to prevent recruitment; and finally, to prevent the creation of new criminal gangs. These strategic objectives shall be achieved through a combination of prevention and prosecution. In concrete terms, this is a matter of: police presence and visibility in the environment cooperation with the nightlife industry preventive focus in the criminal justice chain intervened in the crime of gangs prevention work with children and young people It is important that efforts are knowledge-based and targeted. Police must know, through good intelligence, what individuals and environments they face, where and when crime is committed, and what kind of crime it is. The Police Directorate is responsible for an ongoing evaluation of police action in this area. In 2006, a new project was set up, headed by the Oslo Police District. The project involved Kripos, Økokrim and neighbouring districts Asker and Bærum, Romerike and Follo. The project was very successful. Over the period 2006–2010, significant seizures, including large quantities of drugs, over 100 firearms and about 100 firearms were made. 32 million. kr in cash. Many gang members were sentenced to prison sentences and also to confiscation of criminal proceeds. The good results are due, inter alia, to: the use of resources, good territorial intelligence and investigation cooperation and good use of international police cooperation. From 2012, the Oslo replication project has been incorporated as a line-line task in the organised crime section, and this is an expression of the need for a long-term perspective and the need for reprisals to require top-notch professional environments in organised crime. I am sure that the experience and knowledge gained by the Oslo police district will also be used in other police districts, and that these experiences will be of great importance in the future. The reindeer's operations also have impact fields outside Oslo. This applies in particular to the introduction and distribution of drugs, the larger cities across large parts of the country being involved in drug trafficking, run by seconded actors in Oslo. Combating criminal activity carried out in several police districts challenges police cooperation across districts, including coordination of efforts and resources, and from the current year, the police chief in Oslo is meeting as a permanent member of the coordination body between the Police Directorate and the National Attorney. This could further increase efforts to combat recriminalism. A new instruction has been provided for the coordinating body, which will provide an enhanced coordinating body in accordance with what is described in the Notice. St. 7 for 2010–2011, which we know as ‘The fight against organised crime — a joint effort’. Preventive action is important for the control of re-occurrence. A systematic effort to prevent recruitment is important in this context, as the interpellant pointed out. Police experience shows that more young people in the periphery of the gangs have chosen to withdraw from the environment as a result of increased attention from the police. Police will be able to prevent recruitment through presence and visibility in the local environment, while limiting the possibility of committing crime. Police must be in dialogue with risky young people and their environment. In addition to the family, the school is, in particular, an important venue for creating good attitudes in children and young people. Police interaction with school leaders, teachers and parents provides information about who is at risk, and what situations and places expose children and young people to reproducibility. The police’s discussion of concerns is an important preventive tool in the follow-up to young people under 18 years of age. The earlier the police can intervene, the greater the chance of counteracting undesirable behaviour and crime. The Directorate of Police is working to strengthen the use of the voice of concern. They also look at how knowledge of the discussion of concerns can be strengthened in education at the School of Police. The use of this consultation challenges the police’s ability to capture risky youth. Oslo police districts point out that they have over time carried out targeted and systematic information gathering from a wide range of sources of information. The result is a good overview of the rest of the environment. Persons entering the environment are quickly identified and prevention can be implemented at individual level. Overall prevention requires interaction with municipal and county authorities. In future, the Police Directorate will focus on the further development and strengthening of cooperation locally, in particular through the Police Councils and through the coordinated local action. The letters of assignment to the Police Directorate and the National Attorney emphasise the importance of effective criminal prosecution in order to reduce crime. There is reason to believe that rapid criminal proceedings will affect the motivation to be a member of a gang. The investigation of recrime should therefore be characterised by high levels of clarification, rapid criminal proceedings and rapid response. The detection and resolution of recriminal crime poses specific challenges to the police. Crime is committed in closed environments, and the police often rely on source information to start research. Strengthening the protection of police sources and informers will increase access to information and improve the police’s ability to start investigations based on such information. This year, too, the government will follow up the work of NOU 2009: 15 Hidden Information — Open Control, and present proposals to strengthen the protection of sources and informants. In addition, the Police Directorate shall establish a national intelligence register, which will streamline and improve police access to information from criminal environments. The government will also present proposals for extending the scope of organised crime under Section 60(a). Renewal of this provision will improve police access to exceptional research methods in several of the crime areas in which the communities operate. In this year's letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police, withdrawal has been promised as a central strategy in the fight against crime. The aim is that ‘police shall carry out detention investigations in all cases of profit-based crime’. Several criminal cases show that research on the basis of the money trail contributes to the detection of participants in organised networks, including backers. In addition, such investigation provides a good basis for withdrawal. The government wants the money tracking research to be further developed and to have its own place alongside more traditional research aimed at primary crimes. Weapons use in the rest of the world represents a major risk to society. The willingness to carry firearms in public places represents a marked and explicit departure from our social order. It is important that society and the police have a law that reverses with sufficient force the acquisition and recovery of firearms in criminal environments. Anyone who intends to commit a crime acquires or holds firearms can today be punished with imprisonment up to six years under Section 161 of the Criminal Code. In particularly aggravating circumstances, prisons may be sentenced to up to 10 years. Participation is punished in the same way. The Government aims to propose new weapons laws. As my statement shows, strategies and actions have been put in place that are well-suited to meet the challenges posed by crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e238	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a thorough answer. I think we agree on many points on how to combat this, and that prevention and prevention of recruitment are important. What I want to follow up are the two issues I raised that are very specific and very important today from the Kripos report. One is that according to this report, we see a negative development, and whether it may have been related to having had major criminal cases that have demanded considerable resources from the police, and that the prevention that has been done has had to be prioritised, and that we have seen a recruitment. The second thing I'm asking is whether the Minister of Justice can comment that in Oslo we now have parts of the city there, for example. weighters do not dare to work, and there are crowds in the process of attaching the grip. Based on my knowledge, there are areas where the gangs were knocked down a few years ago, but where some of the participants have now been released and again is about to attach the grip on their neighborhood. What does the Minister of Justice think should be done with regard to these specific geographical areas, and what is her comment that we now have a negative development, and that it is perhaps the major criminal cases that have led to a deterioration in prevention over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e247	This is, of course, a form of crime that is suitable for concern, and it must be worked both systematically and well in its own police forces and with international partners. I still don't recognize myself in the crime scene that the interpellant draws, also related to some areas of the city. I myself was visiting the Manglerud Police Station a few days ago. There I was also presented how the police station works systematically against the youth environments, knows the individuals well, and therefore can do this long-term, important, good prevention work effectively. The interpellant was also part of the SALTO programme. This is a matter that has had a lot of attention, not only from this government, but also from previous governments, and therefore has been put into system several years ago. The Security Programme, developed by the Oslo Police Department, and not least by the Manglerud Police Station, is a good example of how to prevent people from applying for gangs, both through concerns and not least through close victim follow-up where a victim feels that self-insecurity can do the right thing to visit a gang. Then the police seized them in order to provide security outside the rest of the world and, of course, also to provide security by passing on the criminal matters that might have been committed. Oslo police districts have been given considerable increased resources for order and other operational work this year, and as I understand the chief of police, new resources will also be deployed in the preventive and orderly work, which I also believe may be important to prevent recruitment to these communities. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e258	The next speaker is Jan Bøhler – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e261	Thank you very much, President, and congratulations on a new, important job. It's been good to have you here too. It's an important topic we're dealing with today. It's been a few years since – it was probably 2006 – I had an interview on the same topic. After that, a reconstruction project was launched, which was mentioned by the Council of State, such as the following: got 6 million. kr in the year of operation in order to be able to work continuously and to be close to the ropes. I think it's important to use those experiences when we're now summarizing the situation. First of all, the experience is that by being close to the obstacle of the gang members moving around with guns. A lot of weapons were seized, and the risk of serious incidents was reduced when they could no longer have weapons in cars or in the vicinity. The other thing you did was to be good at seizing values that the gang members could not prove that they had obtained legally – i.e. that expensive cars, expensive gold chains, expensive brand products – were confiscated so that they were deprived of the status, so to speak, literally stripped off the status, and that it was less clumsy to be in a crowd. It was also possible to pursue the money in such a way as to stop some money laundering. An example of this is what happened in Brazil, where there was a court case and a judge attached to, among other things. known B gang members from this town. It was also possible to stop the recruitment, so that the gangs had very little activity during a period of time – i.e. activity started to decline in 2009, 2010 and in the spring of 2011. We saw that there began to appear some episodes again late in 2011 and in the first half of 2012 – especially until September 2012 when what is called the Ensjö-drap, happened, where there were thread elements involved. From September 2012, the organisation of what is called special operations, where the rendezvous project was launched, started to become fully operational. Then a parole was also sent from the Oslo Police Chamber to the stations, to all the officials, saying that recrime should be a high priority. After that effort was started in September 2012, there have been even closer, and there have been fewer episodes, so I probably don't agree with the description that developments in the last few months have been negative. But it's true what Kripos says, and it's based on the picture from 2012 when there were at least ten thread-related shooting episodes to September. You have to be careful not to give the impression that there is a wild shoot in Oslo streets, that there is a wild west. Ten episodes aren't wild west, but it's serious. What matters now is that we still have to listen to the police about what they need to do an even better job. I am very pleased that the Council of State says that two important legislative proposals will be put forward, which will provide better tools. This applies for the first time to the protection of sources. It's about the police getting tips about guns, a drug camp, and so on. and shall bring these matters before the courts and have some convicted of them, it is necessary to state the sources of the counterparty today. We want to provide the sources with predictable and good protection, so that they can't be threatened by life or what's worse. It is also very good that the Council of State will change what is called the Mafia paragraph, so that the same structures are not required – almost Italian mafia with board meetings – in order to get someone convicted under this paragraph, and to be able to use the methods that can be used, if there is organised crime under the penal code §60a. There are two improvements the police have called for, and that will be very important to move on. It is also good that the Council of State emphasises the need to work better with seizures and withdrawal. I mentioned the experience from the concentrated effort of the reproduction project around this. I think you also have to make sure that they can work around the clock. Now, the POD, the Police Directorate, is going to allocate the funds they have earmarked for action against organised crime, and it's important that special operations in Oslo get funds so that they can work overtime and follow up this environment around the clock. I would say it is important that we, as politicians, have a responsibility not to spread unnecessary fear. When the interpellant talks about gangs taking over the management quarter by quarter, that the population is pulling out, and that gangs are fixing the grip on their neighborhood, then you're far from the reality of Oslo's streets. Oslo is one of the safest capitals in the world. We're safe in Oslo. We're going to use the whole city. We must not spread fear, but we must take what is of gang elements and episods in the deepest seriousness and not pronounce us so that people become too afraid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e284	I join in the series of congratulations to the President in connection with new and exciting jobs! Thanks also to the interpellant for raising an important question. Interpellation is based on a report from Kripos, which is important. It's important evidence of a state we're not satisfied with, and it's also important evidence because it gives a worrying picture of a development in which recriminalism and reproduction are increasing. It is primarily associated with ethnic gangs and MC gangs. The right has been strongly involved in this issue through recurring issues here in the Storing during this period. For the Right, there are two pillars when we're working on this theme. The first is the preventive trail. Reciprocal environments are very often very closed environments. I'll call it shadow society. If you first get into this rest environment, it's very difficult to break out. The prevention track to stop recruitment into this shadow society is important. The right is very pleased that in the autumn of 2011, the Stortinget unanimously adopted a proposal from us that would provide the municipalities with even more tools and instruments in cooperation with the police to effectively prevent organised crime. The size decided that such a toolbox should be developed – unfortunately, that toolbox has not yet been developed. I am requesting a detailed statement from the Council of State on the status of such a package. The second pillar of the Right in the fight against recrime and organised crime is, of course, to give the police the opportunity to combat this crime. Here again, it is important to stress that, to a large extent, the Stortinget, I would say unanimously, joined in 2011 a strategy to combat organised crime through the treatment of Report. St. 7 for 2010–2011, so that there are clear political signals, and I would say it has been well followed up by the ministry how to address this. A broad approach, where the police, together with municipalities, other state agencies and businesses, will mobilise to combat serious and organised crime. Then, as a single representative and representative of an opposition party, I am very pleased that the Stortinget unanimously adopted a proposal from the Right in the autumn of 2011. It was related to the control of 1 pst.-MC threads. This proposal, and I'm very precise now, came into the Inner East. 58 S for 2011-2012, Decision No Seventy-seven. A unanimous decision was taken by the government to draw up a legislative proposal by 2012 to improve the protection of witnesses and informants. It is absolutely central to breaking up these closed environments and providing security for those who are willing to share information with the police. We are now in 2013 and record that the Council of State refers to the government working on this, but it is linked to a NOU. This is overtime in relation to grossing-up Decision No. 77 – and it was not a request decision. I would like to underline that and ask for an answer and a comment from the Council of State on why this has taken longer than a unanimous decision. This is important in the fight against both reproduction and organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e299	I will begin by commending the representative, Trine Skei Grande, for having raised this interpellation. This is an important question, and the interpellant does so on the basis of a moving fresh trend report, which is part of an annual routine, presented by Kripos, now no later than 30 January. When I hear the Council of State responding to the challenges that the interpellant is addressing, it is informative in the sense of getting an overview of the actions being taken and the resource efforts being put in place. What I could imagine hearing more about is whether the Council of State is willing to go a little further into the problem description that the interpellant invites to. Firstly, does she agree with Kripos’s assessment that the trends are now that recriminalism poses a threat to Norwegian society? And: Does the Council of State agree with the interpellant that the level of tension in the nightlife environments in and around Oslo has increased, and that the level of threat is considered high? The reason why I have to challenge the Council of State in these areas is that one could get the impression that, with reference to the resource effort that is being made, the Council of State gets us to, without saying it directly, that this is under some kind of control, that this is a level a big city has to learn to live with. Above all, there was nothing in the Council's response that pointed forward. What's going on with these projects? Are they then part of the everyday work of general policy? Are you taking the learning effect further? The most important thing is not these projects, but that we have a everyday police force that is organized so that they have proximity to the urban areas. It may also be that there may have been a bit of technocratic and technical attention to innovation in surveillance, while what we simply need is the physical presence of the police, who are not necessarily patrols from the car, but who are present in everyday life, with a low threshold of enquiry. I am also concerned that one sees the heavier crime in connection with the so-called more everyday or prosaic crime, which is supposed to be less serious. I think we can learn from cities with zero tolerance. There has also been a dropout in compliance with drug laws in this city. Drug use can now be punishable. You can even sell it if it's to finance your own consumption. I think it is very important to remove the market for illegal imports, reproduction and organisation, which is absolutely necessary to bring these illegal substances to the market. Then, of course, I would like to stress that it is not the police's job to solve social problems. I see that a part of the crime scene — in particular reproduction — is related to other social conditions, which both urban planners, local politicians and not least parents need to address. I personally see a clear link between this and how society has organised itself in many areas in a way that has weakened the formation of norms in the near environments – mainly in the families. The police can't solve this. So when I talk about prevention, I'm going to point out the legal principles that lie in that there's a great risk of being discovered, and that it's going to have consequences if you break the law. It is also an important part of prevention. You can also see that you have settled down with too low a clearance rate in the Oslo police district. So there's a lot of stuff going on here. But with regard to the police side, which we are discussing here today, I still want to ask the question: have we organised the police in the city in a good enough way, reflecting on the needs of the urban areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e312	First, I would like to thank everyone who has been there. I have to admit that I am a little sorry that the Oslo bench has only managed to participate with representatives from three parties. But I just have to take note of that. There is something I would like to comment on. As I began in my interpellation, it is such that never has Oslo youth been less criminal than they are now. There have never been fewer criminal acts per year. youth than what we see now. However, it is important to speak the truth about what goes in the wrong direction. I also believe that criminal developments have not run smoothly in Oslo. But that we have some geographic areas where evolution really goes in the wrong direction, I think it's also important to talk true about. I think it's a caution you have to take in and speak the truth about when there are geographic areas in Oslo where the guard companies don't take on work because they don't have control in the area. It's a fact. Then you should look at how to work actively with those areas in order to regain that control. Then we in the Left are always open to discuss police methods. But I don't think that's the only way to get into the goal of recriminalism. I believe that effective prevention and prevention of recruitment – the active use of the methods we have today – make us very far away. Preventing the recruitment and preventing the collection of runners for these gangs, to put it that way, is perhaps some of the most effective to strangle the gangs over time. It is then important to give priority to prevention. I think the Kripos report is a warning. They say that evolution is negative in this field, the violence escalates, and we wake up at regular intervals to news about the settlement of the frequency. I think that this is related to the fact that we've had major criminal cases that have taken a lot of resources, and that over time it has prevented the prevention that we know we need. I think wise, good policemen who are present in the urban environment, who know them, are the most effective. We don't have to look for police methods from the largest American cities to think we're going to be able to fight this. I think that traditional police work is very effective, also to those who are trying to play that they are in a larger American city instead of in a small Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e327	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank you for the debate on a very important topic. I feel that there is a complete consensus on that. Taking the debate on what action is right is important. It is also important that we carry it in a way that does not contribute to unjustified fear among the population. I chose earlier to focus on prevention, but do not underestimate that this is a serious organised crime that represents the need for new measures and is a serious challenge. So the systematic work started, both prevention and detection efforts, must be continued. We need to build new skills and increase resources. That is why I focused not least on this coordinating body, which now also joins the police chief of the Oslo Police District with the Police Directorate and the National Attorney. Ensuring that resources are pooled and actions developed by the very best are important. It is also important that we take lessons, so that we ensure that this can be applied elsewhere in the country. I feel that in this area, there are few political differences related to the actions taken and need to be further developed. I'm glad. I must say that I therefore share the frustration expressed by the representative, Werp, in relation to the MC supervisor that the Directorate of Police is developing for the municipalities. It is a difficult area, and they have also encountered new challenges. I have to admit that I have now given them an extended period from January to April, but I expect it to be available and ready for dispatch. Let me also finally, President, congratulate you on new challenges. I want to thank for the cooperation from this chair and say that there has always been order and control under your direction. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e339	Thank you for that, and thank you for other nice greetings along the way in this debate. The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e357	In 2000, Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem stressed that efforts to strengthen and maintain the competence and experience of investigators in the investigation of sexual assaults were a priority area. She stressed to Stortinget that there were rules on the deadline for the conduct of judicial hearings, which entered into force on 1 November 1998. In 2008, Minister of Justice Storberget pointed out that he knew that the violence that is taking place at home is rarely caught up in, despite the fact that it hits us where we are to be safest – at home. He also stressed that violence in close relations is crime, and that crime is a social responsibility. According to him, the government was to make the meeting with the public a turning point for the individual. The documents we often hear say that there has been a significant change and strengthening of the investigation of rape cases. This was claimed in and justified by a wide range of documents such as: The Ministry of Justice’s letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police, the Riksadvokat’s circular, directives, objectives and priority letters, as well as the Government’s action plans. But the question is about the wording of these documents and the information we get reflects the reality that many people experience. On November 26, 2010 a woman – we can call her Nina – was raped in unconscious condition by her recently divorced husband, according to a letter to the National Attorney and reported in the media. So the 13-year-old son must have tried to stop the rape. Thus, on November 26, 2010, two people were likely actually subjected to rape and violence in close relationships, to witness violence is also violence against the person who is looking at, but due to police delinquency, it was not possible to assess this legal situation as it is. The state that Nina and the son thought would help them after their life's most traumatic experience, unfortunately became such a great new attacker on them this year. Had it not been for Nina not to enter the victim's role that many, including the police, seem to expect the victims of rape to go into in order to fit into a sort of film template, the case had been dismissed without comment. Nina's history is a struggle against a system, against some attitudes, against lack of competence, and for others not to experience the same in the future in a country that counts itself as world champions in fighting violence in close relations. Unlike those who have given up, she took the case in her own hands and pointed out that it is not okay that the Oslo police district replied that they did not have time to receive the report until five days later, when the rapist contacted the police district. Thus, important evidence such as biological evidence, such as: DNA, lost. The alleged attacker was questioned after four months. The son was called to trial only after six months, and in the meantime the police also said that she should not talk to the son about the incident. It was a double assault on him, and it was a double assault on her. Three character witnesses were subsequently interrogated – after countless reminders from the assistant lawyer – 21 months after the reported infringement took place, and then only as a flat-screen telephone interview without notice. The case was finally dismissed after the document had been placed after two years or 730 days, without any other investigation criterion than those mentioned. Had it not been for Nina not to give up, we had not been told how the investigation of Oslo police district from a to being totally unacceptable. That it was unacceptable is not my words, but the words of Oslo State Attorney's Office in their endorsement. The case was simply dismissed because the investigation was unacceptable, and because the police, when they finally did something, carried out the investigation without any proven value. These aren't my words, but again the State Attorney's words. Nina's not alone. DIXI Resursenter for the Rape conducted an investigation among its members in 2011 that showed that the reputation of the police and the judiciary among the raped is very poor. Only approx. 8 pst. experience the trial as a positive and fair process, while nearly 80 pst. experiences the process as a very stressful one. Those numbers are probably not particularly better today. The Court of Justice’s 2012 Supervisory Report reveals and points out a number of shortcomings in the police’s ability and willingness to investigate rape cases. It is established that pure violent crimes are prioritised over rape, and that access to resources to pure violent crimes is greater than for sexual assault and rape. Furthermore, the report reveals that the initial phase of the investigation, which is essential for a good further investigation and for an adequate prosecution decision, in very many cases is worrying, deficient and in some cases absent. It is also pointed out that the competence of the violence and morality department of the Oslo Police Department is too poor and that there are too few qualified Volkteksetter researchers. A problem that comes up regularly is that you cannot recruit competent investigators. This raises the question of why in all the world a rape is to be reported when the quality of the investigation is so poor in many cases, the number of orders is so high and the number of convictions is so few. So this is the situation in the Oslo police district, the largest we have. In Troms we were recently told that ill-fated children were not interrogated until after long, long deadlines, which put their children at risk of new abuses and major traumas. In Troms, as elsewhere in the country, there is a lack of competence and recruitment situation, which was a major priority in the year 2000. If police districts are lacking in investigative competence, they will, in the opinion of the Right, acquire it. The state council must, via POD, make sure they get it. If they don't have it within their own police-trained ranks, or get it through some of the younger ones who are eventually hired, you get to think more creatively and recruit and include civil servants who have competence. A short time ago, we discussed an interpellation by the undersigned on the need for a central strategy for increasing and improving the use of civilian-employee top skills to make the police action the best possible. Combined with the phasing out of the DNA analysis monopoly, which I have today proposed again, it could make a positive contribution. It must be made attractive and not low status to work with rape. When you look at the so-called family violence coordinator system in the police department, we know that many of the coordinators – in violation of their intentions – are obliged to do very many tasks other than work with the field of family violence. In addition, very few police districts have set up their own family violence competence and investigation teams. That's why, of course, it's not going to be a good grip on that work, it's going to be random and ad hoc. At risk of being prejudiced and gender stereotypes: I don't think it's just about little resources, but also about what's considered to be real police work in some parts. The funds are rolled out in a completely different way when there are more bullets, powders and drugs involved, to put it that way — about the way in which the involvement of very many disappears when they are subjected to stricter penalties and the TV cameras are switched off, while the victims are left with what they have experienced and their traumas. Unfortunately, those experiences become so private and offensive to many outsiders that you'd rather ignore and let the exposed ones go alone with the shame they feel, and that too many people don't just get less in touch with the police, helpers or people most. Rape is a physical near-drap, while it can mentally kill the victim's soul. It suggests that they must meet with the respect and understanding and the measures needed by the public — something that Nina and others have not experienced with her. Nina's case is one among several. Of course, like me, state councils should not go into detail on individual matters, but individual matters of which unfortunately are too many, say something about the reality of rape in Norway. It is a piece of the action plans that we all agree on to implement, so the question is: what will the Council of State actually do to prevent more such examples of what is described by Oslo State Attorneys as unacceptable research, and which prevents those at risk of rape from gaining justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e387	Rape is a serious crime. It's about the violence, power and intrusion of a human being in the most humiliating way. That's where I think the representative Oktay Dahl and I totally agree. Rape is a priority area for the government and for the police and the prosecution authority. This is reflected both in the political guidance documents and in the Riksadvokat's objectives and priorities for criminal proceedings. The government has worked for a long time and at several levels to combat rape. For me, as Minister of Justice and Security, it has been a high priority to continue and strengthen efforts to prevent and combat rape. That is why I have developed an action plan on rape for 2012-2014, in cooperation with the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, the Minister for Health and Welfare and the Minister for Knowledge. The action plan draws up 35 different measures in the fields of prevention, relief, research and judicial treatment and cooperation and coordination. As a State Council, I have no opportunity to address individual cases in criminal matters, and I cannot therefore comment on the specific matter the representative refers to. But what I can tell myself about are my expectations of how the rape victims are met by the police, and how the rape cases are handled: The Justice and Emergency Department's letter of assignment for the current year to the Police Directorate demands reporting both on the extent of the rape and on the police's work in the field, and it is emphasised that rapid investigation and correction are particularly important in the sexual crimes cases. As a result, waiting time for the police to submit a notification, long proceedings with the police, delayed forensic investigations and lack of information to the aid lawyer is not compatible with my demands for effective criminal prosecution. Oslo State Attorney's Office carried out an inspection at the Oslo Police District in June 2012. The interpellant has already referred to this. The inspection documents several major challenges related to research, instruction, quantity of cases and progress. The issues in the case representative refer to are therefore to be recognized. The inspection gave cause for concern. We therefore invited the National Attorney and the Police Directorate to a meeting quickly after the inspection report was presented. At the meeting, Kripos and Oslo also attended police districts. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss further work on rape cases. Several of the issues raised in the inspection report are addressed in the action plan against rape. The action plan contains measures to strengthen and improve the investigation and treatment in the judiciary. These measures include, inter alia: to conduct a technical seminar on rape cases for police and prosecution authorities, and to establish good procedures for investigating rape cases in police districts. In addition, in some of his inspections of police criminal proceedings, the State Attorney should pay particular attention to rape cases — as has already been done in Oslo. An evaluation shall also be carried out of the police’s work on sexual assault and an evaluation of the Kripos rape team. The Advocate General, who is primarily responsible for the implementation of several of the measures, points out inter alia: in its opinion: ‘The prosecutor has been involved for a long time in the progress and use of time in the criminal justice process of rape cases. What is particularly worrying is where the investigation does not start in time, with the risk of missing tracks and important information. Another situation that should also be considered is where there appears to be a significant and inexplicable ‘time of death’ between each research step. The most unfortunate, and totally unacceptable, is where the whole process simply stops. These are points to which the national lawyer now draws attention and which one will follow up. Some initiatives have already been taken. In cooperation with the Rape Group at Kripos, the National Attorney General organised a two-day conference on ‘Studying, Evidence Assessment and Activating Rape’, in which all police districts were represented. A continuous theme was the initial phase investigation device. In addition, the national lawyer has now set up a working group, consisting of experienced technical and tactical investigators and a police lawyer, to record standardised procedures for police use in the initial phase or emergency phase when reporting rape. Furthermore, under assessment, measures to strengthen the prosecution management of the investigation in serious rape cases are aimed, not least at developing guidelines on the use of written investigation plans in rape cases. The plan should, inter alia, provide an overview of the research criteria to be carried out, with time-limits adapted to the individual case. A similar methodology has already been used for Ecocrim, with good results.’ The National Advocate General’s statement shows that it continues its efforts to strengthen its efforts and is well underway to follow up the action plan. It makes me sure that this is going to be an improvement. Police have also developed tools to improve the quality of this type of research, including: a national law enforcement officer for the investigation of rape cases, made available on the police competence sharing portal. Further training at Police College has also contributed to increased competence in the field of justice. With regard to information on the procedure, the police are obliged to inform them of the progress and progress of the case, according to Section 7-6 of the Public Prosecutor's Instructions. Increased competence and good practices will ensure compliance with this obligation. The police directorate has informed that after inspection by the Oslo State Attorney General, it is mentioned from the Oslo Police District that the police chief has strengthened the section on sexual crimes with ten posts. These investigators are in place. The Directorate of Police has further stated that the section will be strengthened by a further 10 new posts for the creation of a separate team of investigators who will take over responsibility for receiving notifications from 1 April this year. The group will have a rotational system and, in cooperation with the Crime Act, will be dimensioned to receive rapid reviews, so that the problem of waiting time does not fall. As far as forensic investigations are concerned, the government has been involved in a country-wide infringement. According to the Plan of Action against Rape, Kripos, in cooperation with the National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine, will develop routines for permanent contact and interaction. Intervention recipients were evaluated last year, and the challenges identified by the evaluation will be followed up by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Interpreting recipients will also be further addressed in the forthcoming Single European Act on violence in close relations. When children have experienced violence or sexual assault, at home or elsewhere, it is imperative to ensure that the matter is dealt with promptly, and with particular attention to caring for the child. This may be the case with the conduct of judicial hearings. The hearing shall be conducted as soon as possible and no later than two weeks after the notification of the offence has been lodged with the police. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the waiting time for a court hearing is too long. In order to remedy this situation, the Police College has increased the training of judges from 15 places in 2010 to 48 last year. Education takes 10 months and will increase police competence in this type of interrogation and increase the capacity to conduct interrogations. In addition, several immediate actions have been taken in the Oslo Police District to limit the waiting time for the execution of judicial hearings. In October, we received the report from a working group which has reviewed and proposed changes to the legislation for the implementation of judicial hearings. The report has now been sent to the hearing and will be followed up by the Ministry. Since 2007, we have established a total of eight children's homes on a national basis. The eight children’s homes are located so that there is now at least one children’s home in each health region. The state’s children’s home is a multi-disciplinary, co-located action aimed at children and young people who have been subjected to sexual assault and violence, or who have witnessed such. The co-location of central actors improves cooperation between actors and ensures that children meet with high levels of child-care competence in a safe and caring environment. This provides a better overall offer, while reducing the burden on the children and their caregivers. On behalf of the Police Directorate, the Norwegian Institute for Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing and the Police College have carried out an evaluation of the children's home model. It appears from the evaluation that the model children’s home leads to safer and better care for their children. The evaluation also shows that 69 pst. of all court hearings in 2011 were conducted in children’s homes. The number of police districts using children’s homes and the proportion of interrogations conducted there have increased every year, but there are still considerable variations. The recommendations in the evaluation are now followed up by my department, and this will include, among other things, aim at increasing the proportion of interrogations conducted in children’s homes, so that an equivalent offer is made to all children, irrespective of where they live in the country. As is clear from what I have said, a lot has been done in recent years regarding rape, but I can also assure the representative that we will not stop working to improve the police's efforts on rape cases, and the offer to care for children who experience such abuses, so that we do not get any more examples to which the representative refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e443	This is a field of which there is cross-political agreement. In the case of children's homes, the government and the opposition have cooperated well. We have pressed and criticized each other in different ways, but at least we have achieved a pretty good result, by getting more children's houses. But we need even more, so everyone gets help. The basic question is what kind of consequence it has for the non-violent person, the police, when they do such a bad job as they do in some cases. In the individual case that I brought up here, the victim received a letter with a ‘complaint’ – that’s what she got. The question then is: what kind of consequences does it have for those who have been responsible for conducting the investigation, who have been responsible for the unacceptability of the investigation, for people to experience that their positive rights to be treated really take disproportionately long, and for being told to wait many days when trying to report an infringement? Then it's interesting to know: what kind of sanctions are what you can imagine against this type of deleterious police work? Because that's not a simple example, there are many of them, and if the only result for those responsible is that they can say'sailing' and then continue as before, holding some meetings and telling them that now things are going to be much better, then I fear that in ten years' time we will get exactly the same interview debate here, where we have action plans, circulars, goals and priorities from the national lawyer, government and judicial committee, without having been dealt with what I think is the basic problem, namely, partly lack of positions in parts of the police, combined with lack of competence. In terms of competence, the quality of research needs to be improved. Then I would like to repeat the question of acquiring research competence, for example. include civil pectoral competence. Then I will challenge the Council of State to open up to several actors in DNA analysis. There are two concrete proposals that we have not yet agreed to, but which can help improve research quality and speed up research. The Justice Committee was in New York in the previous period. There was an investigation team for rape that worked. There was no turning point in the election when it came to prioritizing and implementing what was thought to be important. I am very pleased that the Council of State warns that one should have attention around it, and I think to the extent that there is reason to praise the Council of State for that, for the follow-up to the genuine commitment I experienced that the Great Mountain had in its time. But even though we're all very engaged and very serious, the situation is not that it's reflected in the police work that rape-stricken encounters. I want to challenge the Council of State on the two specific questions – whether she can say anything about the possibility that we will end the DNA monopoly and include civil servants better than today in order to improve the quality of research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e460	The interpellant has raised a very important debate, and I, like him, would like to stress the consensus that we need to strengthen our efforts in this field and that he was right to put the searchlight on the children's homes. In my opinion, this has represented a completely different opportunity to do both professional police work and secure assistance and care. I'm going to come back to this issue in the communication on violence in close relationships, but we need to have a common ambition to strengthen both the quality and capacity of these children's homes. I also fully agree that we need to pay attention to the care of victims, and that one of the challenges facing police officers is that in the initial phase you are good at both securing the tracks, doing good research, and providing professional and good care for the victims, and that you also know where an assistance service is available – whether it is about a doctor or other auxiliary staff. This is why, as part of the action plan, these tools are being worked on in concrete terms. We build, as I mentioned, new competences at the Police College, there's more education, and the education course is ten months. So it's clear, with the impatience that counts both at the interpellant and at my place, we still have to bear in mind that it takes some time for this competence to come into force. In addition, as I pointed out, there are new posts, not least here in Oslo, which I think is absolutely central when Oslo police districts are going to address these challenges in a more systematic way. Children's homes are in themselves an example of multidisciplinary cooperation, and these are important for our further development. I do not imagine that we should shut down the possibility of working interdisciplinaryly in these areas also outside the children's houses – on the contrary. DNA we've discussed many times. In this context, there is too little time to enter into the proposal that the representative has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e471	I want to start by thanking the representative Octay Dahl for addressing this important matter and for making a very committed and good contribution. Rape is one of the most traumatic abuses a human being can experience. Women who are raped, whether it be rape, friend rape or rape from their own husband in their own home, experience the greatest trauma a human being can experience. Then it is very important that the police take these matters seriously. The victims of sexual crimes must be met with respect from the police, and priority must be given to these matters. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice has given a clear signal to the police through the 2013 letter of assignment to the Police Directorate. These matters must be given priority. This means that they must be given priority over minor offences, such as per mill drive and small drug seizures. This is a responsibility that lies with each police officer. We all know how important it is for the police to start the investigation early. This is particularly important to ensure evidence, but it is also important that the hearings are conducted early. This, of course, applies to both parties, both the victim of the rape and the notified person. It is a great burden for both parties that it may take a long time before they are told their story to the police. The Minister of Justice has made a clear demand for effective criminal enforcement. It means a shorter waiting time for the police to submit a notification, a shorter procedural period, the initiation of forensic investigations as early as possible, and the continuous maintenance of the counsel on the case by the police. It may appear that the individual police districts do not comply with these requirements. That's very regrettable. Yesterday the TV 2 news had a case that DNA traces from an assault rape in Stavanger in 2008 had led to findings in Interpol's DNA registry. There is no doubt that this matter took a long time – five years – but it shows that the work done by the police, in cooperation with the rape team at Kripos, is very good. But what I reacted to most in this report was the illustrations that TV 2 used. They showed half-full girls in short skirts in the middle of the night in the capital. Let's be clear: it's never the girl's fault that she gets raped. It's inconvenient when it's suggested – I'm not saying that it's been done in the debate in this room today, it's probably not going to happen either – that girls who drink, wear the fine, short dresses and are at a party Saturday night, are responsible for the rape themselves. Over the past 50–60 years, the right of women to dress as they wish, to do as they will, without being accused of putting themselves at risk, has been one of the most obvious gender equality issues. An important effort by this government has been to set up the rape team at the Kripos. It is ready to assist the police if necessary. This is the country's best investigators for sexual crimes. I'm glad the Minister of Justice wants to evaluate this group. It is important to know how the police can better work against sexual crimes. We have to make the police districts and the police officers who are in the streets, who accept reports, the most equipped for this, precisely to meet women with respect and compassion and to take them seriously. Here, the rape team at Kripos can assist the police districts. The interpellant refers to a case in which the son of a victim of rape witnessed the assault. Small children who experience that their mother or father is being subjected to such a serious attack could have toil for a long time – at worst all their lives – if no one takes hold of it. It is important that children be interrogated by judges with special competence for children. It is important that we train more police officers who can conduct such interrogations, and it is important that the children are interrogated as soon as possible. Children must also be offered through children’s homes to process the traumas. By getting even more good at preventing and getting quick resolution of sexual crimes and rapes, fewer people will take these episodes further into their lives – episodes that can simply be devastating for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e490	We have two important interpellations here in the hall today. Also, this matter I will commend the interpellant for having traveled. It may seem – when you read the introductory part of the interpellation – as if this is a single matter. But when we hear the interpellant's glowing commitment to the big picture this is all about, it says something about the commitment. It is also very enjoyable to register – it is not surprising, of course – that this kind of thing gathers Stortinget. Governments show the same commitment in understanding that this is important, here we have to do more and better work. From a single point of view, Storting's commitment – in my understanding of the debate – is that we should prevent repetition, and that we should all make sure that we give a clear signal that we need to have systems that improve quality. In this context, we need a systematic approach. The government has said a lot about this, and I think the Council of State gave a very good account of the government's and department's work on the matter. This is about leadership, it's about priority, and it's about knowledge. The governance dialogue with which the Council of State has, in this case, the Directorate of Police, must reflect such a systematic approach – to ensure that this goes all the way to the external links, to the investigators and officials and women who meet victims in a particularly difficult situation, so that victims feel safe, respected and can be sure that what can be done to resolve the matter is done. Of course, from the Right, we will follow this forward – just as I am absolutely sure that everyone else who works in the field of justice and who is concerned with the dimension of rape and violence expects good results in the extension of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e503	First, I want to thank Oktay Dahl and Right for addressing something as important as rape and violence against women. The fear of being sexually assaulted is a fear that very many women live with. It follows us on our way home from the city, it follows us through dark parks, and it follows us when we go alone. It is a social problem that politicians are responsible for, and as politicians, we need to ensure that women are safe in public space. But far worse than fear, those experiences are far too many Norwegian women live with. The rape committee estimated that 8 000 to 16 000 Norwegian women are subjected to rape or attempted rape – this year. There's a lot of crazy people! There's a lot of attention around brutal assault violence. But the vast majority of rapes happen at a party, at home or at someone you know. The vast majority of rapists are Norwegian boys and men. They like to know the victim and are often drunk. But the assault, the rape, we have to take equally seriously, no matter how great it is of violence, whether it's an assault or just a "common" rape – in a bed at a party. Oktay Dahl asks us for something that should be a matter of course – that people subjected to rape should meet with respect, understanding and help from the public. We are in agreement with that in our hearts. That's why assault reception in all municipalities is a heart issue for us. But that's also why we are working hard to expand our understanding of what rape actually is. The example used here is terrible, not only for the woman who was subjected to the assault, but also because it hit her son, who was a witness. This example clearly shows that something has failed, and that the raped woman was not met with the respect and understanding she deserved. It's easy to get provoked by these types of things. But it's so problematic when young women are met with distrust and questions about what they were wearing, or how much they had drunk, when they try to report a rape. It's not the level of violence or cruelty that decides which help to get. A no is a no, anyway. We in SV hope that the Minister will listen to the complaints that have been addressed to Norway’s definition of rape. Unity requires consent. An assault is an assault, even when the victim does not cry no. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is taking this seriously. Women's legal certainty is the basis of a fair society. We're going to have the right to go wherever we want, we're going to have the right to drink as much as we want, and we're going to have the right to wear whatever we want – and still be safe from violence and abuse. But this is not just a problem that the Minister of Justice can solve, although it is important that the police and the judiciary take seriously and stop asking offensive questions about the number of former sex partners or whether you had flirted earlier in the evening. The Minister of Justice must take responsibility and continue to work for a change of opinion in the police and judicial system and, not least, to reduce the waiting time for the women who report rape, so that they feel heard and taken seriously. But the fight against rape starts early. It is about sexual education at school, about awareness campaigns and a good tool. In the book Generation Sex, Hannah Health writes ironically that there will be no end to abuse no matter how good sex education SV gets. She's probably right about that. But we still have to try. That is why I hope this is an area that is so important that the Minister of Justice will follow it up and continue to cooperate with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Knowledge. For either there are 8 000 or 16,000 women who are subjected to rape or attempted rape this year, there are all, all too many! Finally, I would warn the Right against using as powerful words about rape as the interpellant does. Yes, the example and process here are hair travelers. Yes, rape is a terrible offense. Yes, there are lasting wounds in the soul. But if the rape committee's numbers are correct, about one in ten Norwegian women have been subjected to either attempted rape or raped during their lives. And they survive. They move on after the assault. When we politicians use as strong words as 'nestendrap', we can help scare people away from the help they need. Instead, we have to work nine-time for a better helper and not least talk about the amazing job the helper actually does. Victims of rape must be believed, heard, met with respect and not least get the help they actually need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e531	I think it has been said very well in the hall. And there's also a cross-political consensus about a lot of the points that are drawn up here. But there are also some challenges. First, it is important to distinguish between rape and violence in close relationships. I noticed what the representative Lund Arnem said in his post just before me when it was about rape in close relations: that it is often just a ‘common rape’. I believe there are no common rapes. The term ‘usual rapes’, what is it now? Each case is individual, and each case is unique, not least for that matter. DNA may be one of the most important tools, one of the most important keys we have, to solve more problems. We in the Progress Party believe that the DNA reform that was adopted has helped to clarify several issues – at the latest this matter, to which it was also referred, five years ago in time. It shows how important DNA is as a tool. Facilitating the use of individual police districts to a greater extent than may be the case is also something we can point out. Although it is difficult to investigate rape, difficult to see where the border has gone, and difficult – at least at the beginning – to see whether there is a case or not, it is important that it is taken seriously when a woman shows up with the police and reports a rape. We had a case in Kristiansand last year where a young girl reported a rape that had been committed at night. I will not say that she was rejected, but she was told to come the next day and report the matter. She appeared again and reported this rape, and again she was almost rejected. Only when a new rape was committed, her report was taken seriously. We can't have it like that. Any girl – or boy – who reports this must be taken seriously. So what do we do from the Biggest side? We in the Progress Party believe that one should consider setting up a separate Children's and Youth Court for matters involving these groups. We believe that we need to gain top expertise from the police – not just in Kripos, as we now know has a group of our own, but around the police districts to a much greater extent. It's strange, when we look around, that those who work on such things are very often female police officers. Why are there women who often feel dedicated to taking these matters? Is it because men refuse? Is it not kind of potent enough – to use that word – for men to work on these matters? There are often women who take this, and we see that as a red thread. Even when these themes come to debate, it is often the women who are involved in it. Furthermore, I see that the Council of State was involved in victim care. Since the Council of State became the Council of State, I have twice asked Document 15 questions regarding the adopted proposals that the Committee of Justice has unanimously proposed, namely to consider the establishment of its own victim care services, including a violent victim fund, which could also have contributed to lifting the role of victims and their rights in society. We in the Progress Party believe that the Police College is also an important piece in this. Focusing on the challenges facing our police officers when they come into active service is important. But ordinary school is also important in attitudes to sex, attitudes towards girls and boys, men and women. We need to be aware that what's happening online, what's happening in public space through social media and networks, may also help stigmatize and make a different attitude to this with rape. At Stortinget we have to be clear about setting limits on what we think is good and not good. This topic has been up several times in the past, and it's important to get different angles on it. But now I think the time has come to show even more action: the security of the people, the security of the girls who are going out in the evening, the security of running in the woods when you want to, the security that you can go home without having to look behind your back, the security to take the taxi you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e552	Elections are a topic that we have debated a lot, both in the Storting, in the media and in others, in the last few years, especially by so-called electoral waves, but also otherwise. This is both a good and a bad sign at the same time. It's good because it shows that many people care and think that sexual abuse is serious, criminal acts that we want to prevent better, solve more of them and punish harder. It's bad because it's a sign that the problem is big, and that many people are getting hit every year. Interpellant André Oktay Dahl is one of those who have been really good at putting the theme on the agenda. Although the specific case mentioned in the interpellation text is not something we as legislators and the licensing authority are going to deal with here, it is still useful that we can discuss whether electoral victims and witnesses to electoral law are well taken care of, and whether the cases are followed up well enough. We adopt laws and give money for important purposes, and then we have to make sure that the resources are used properly and correctly. We have pointed out that violence and sexual abuse are going to be more serious. We have increased the penalties, and in this way it is made clear that condemned punishments in the past have been too low. But no matter how high the penalties we have, it won't help unless more criminals are actually convicted. To achieve this, the police have to make a good effort from the very beginning. They must secure the tracks and remove any witnesses, and they must be told by the victim as soon as possible. Of course, if they find suspicious people, they also have to be called off quickly. It should be unnecessary to say this. But unfortunately, we're talking about some scary examples of how it shouldn't be done. In this case, the State Attorney General of Oslo has said that the investigation has been unacceptable. It's not just that the investigation itself was too bad. The way things were done – or not done – must have been a huge burden on good people who had witnessed the power of mother, and who could not talk to the mother about the cases pending the testimony of the police. Half a year is an important part of a childhood. The question in the interpellation is what the Council of State will do to prevent more such examples. The Minister of Justice has responded well. There is no doubt that the red-green government has been targeted in order to strengthen the work against selection, sexual abuse and violence. At the same time, this is also a matter of police culture. Every single police officer must think that searching for electoral instruments is important. It's absurd if working with sexual assault should have a lower status than other police work. Taking perpetrators and providing a good basis for a conviction in court through rapid and qualified investigation efforts should, on the other hand, be highly valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e576	I would like to thank you for a good debate, but above all thank you to the interpellant for both good speeches and for raising a very important issue. I hope that the Council of State will note the enormous commitment that comes with such kinds of issues – it is not unique with this debate today, but it shows a genuine commitment from a single judicial committee that is important to be followed up. Unfortunately, all too often cases show great weaknesses in police investigations into rape and assault. People who have been subjected to such atrocities must get quick and good help to get the best out of life. So there has to be a change, and it has to happen quickly. Rape is a very serious and serious crime, and it's with good reason we're talking about it as a near-drap. Last night, we heard from the NRK that the police in Northern Ireland admit that they spend too much time investigating criminal cases. A woman who was assaulted more than two years ago is still waiting for a clarification in the matter. The woman herself describes this as feeling like a new offense. Unfortunately, this is also not an outstanding example of unacceptable long-term treatment in criminal offences. We now have eight children's homes in Norway. They were just created to ensure good treatment for children and young people who have been subjected to abuse. The legal certainty of children should be strengthened. The purpose of the establishment of children’s homes was to gather a multidisciplinary follow-up of children who had experienced abuse or witnessed this, where competence in the field was to be concentrated and built up. Unfortunately, the annual report of the children’s houses for 2012 showed shocking figures. On average, 63 days are taken before children who are subjected to violence or sexual assault are questioned. It's 49 days longer than the term of the penal code, which is 14 days. Some of the children's houses report that the police took even longer than this. The long waiting period may lead to the loss of important evidence, not least to the strengthening of the trauma and suffering of young people. The thing that the interpellant mentions is heartbreaking. The research clearly shows that young people who are victims of abuse can experience severe trauma and develop mental disorders. Early intervention is therefore very important to reduce the level of injury. Then it is clear that the police's tasks in these matters are very complex and difficult to deal with. The investigation of rapes requires special competence, and I want to commend all those who do a good job in such cases. I know the government has tried to launch different measures to improve the situation, but it still turns out that this is far from good enough. The police have to be secured with sufficient resources, so that they have the opportunity to carry out the job they are assigned to. There must be enough competence to investigate such matters. That's the task of the Council of State. In addition, I would like to challenge the Council of State to look at the possibility of creating more children's homes. The 2012 Annual Communication also clearly shows that the capacity of children’s homes has been decommissioned, while large geographical distances mean that not all children are guaranteed equal protection. So we need more children's houses. The prevention of assaults and rapes is an essential keyword. That is why I would encourage the Council of State to cooperate even more closely — and work even better — with other departments in order to ensure that this kind of cruel crime is less likely to occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e597	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising the interpellant. I would also like to thank the interpellant for starting from a single matter that has shaken many of us. The starting point for our job in this room is that we're going to measure what we've set as a goal in laws and decisions here, against how it works in reality – and it's the reality that wins. That reality described the interpellant well. When matters are over in the judiciary, I believe it is time for us to raise the debate. I don't think the Minister of Justice should reject that. All of these things are difficult. In the past, both in interpellation and in Document 8 proposals, the Left has raised all the proposals that have been made by the Parliamentary Committee, without our having just experienced any support for it. One of the things we've been most concerned about is making a unit of our own at Kripos. I know that the Minister of Justice disagrees with this, but I will briefly take up the argument as to why we believe it. Today, we have police districts to deal with an incredible number of different types of crime. Some of the types of crime we have said are so difficult to investigate and require so special competence that we have actually created a unit for them. So let's do that. Almost always in killing cases. At that time, Kripos’ competence is acquired to investigate because it is sometimes difficult for a small lumbarian office in a small place that gets a difficult killing case, to have the competence to lift it. The diversity of police tasks is so different and complex today that we also have to accept that some people are experts in the different areas. Rape is also a very difficult field to investigate – take evidence and question. That may also be the reason why many policemen and women work hard to do that task – they are afraid to make mistakes because it is a difficult task. Maybe that's why it gets priorityed far down in the pile – because it's hard, and because it's easy to make mistakes. That's why we've been busy having a separate unit of expertise, which can be involved in and give status to the area, and which can be involved in and enhance the quality of the police work to be done in these difficult issues. This is important from all the arguments put on the table in this debate. But it's also important because it's with and spin spirals. We've all been scared by the rapes we've seen in, for example. India in the last. What scares us is the attitude we face when this is debated on the street. I guess you shouldn't waste that much time back until you find it in Norway too, but I feel that with public debate and by showing it in the light, we have managed to turn it around. But the reversal of these abuses and the prosecution of these abuses are also important to reverse other spirals of violence – because this is at the bottom of very many other societal problems as well. DIXI conducted a survey related to its last anniversary of which other plagues — mental and physical — caused victims of rape in view of other diseases. It is interesting to see how excessive frequency occurs — for example: of cancer — when, because of such an attack, one has a reduced immune system that other diseases also attack one. We see that such abuses in other ways also lead to spirals of violence in families, spirals of violence in other close relationships and disrupt relationships between people at different social standards. Therefore, I think it is important that we implement these measures, so it is important that this leads to convictions – because it sets some standards for our society. We in the Left are going to cling to the proposals put forward by the Rape Committee. We're going to promote them further, because I think there's a lot of wisdom in the sample that hasn't been brought to practical policy yet, but that would have been good for it, because this is a social problem that I think there's a broad commitment in this room to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e618	Words are power, and words can be power abuse. Words are used as an abuse of power against women in many areas, so the debate we've had about what women have to find in, or at any rate not in, comments, etc. in the field of comments, is also important, because the type of words and attitudes which endorse a certain form of rape as an instrument against women. As a gay man, I also know a little about it – because then you're not a good man, you're a little crazy, so you really don't deserve better then either. So there's more than one area you can think about. I agree – so word is power – when the representative Arnem says not to use too many words about what rape is. The word 'nestendrap' was used by Storberget, and I mean it actually holds, but at the same time: the reactions to a rape can be different, and people handle it differently. The example of the woman in my interpellation shows that; there are no rape victims who want to be vulnerable and poor all the time, and lie away in a hook and cry. They're actually strong, tough, can do a job for, and will use it for, others. That's why I've been open about my own story. I think it makes sense to be open about it – even though some people are looking and you don't think you have any competence when you talk about it, because it's too problematic to hear about. But I think it's important to share the knowledge you get when you've experienced something completely horrible, just to make the world better for others, and use it as a force. That's what I've chosen to do, and that's what the woman that's the starting point of the interpellation has done, too. Then it's also like rape hits both sexes. Violence in close relationships is not about women – it's about both sexes. I believe that equality is gender equality, not women's struggle. Now I'm a member of the board of reform, so I'm -- I was just saying -- the programming obligation to say that. But I think it's important to remember that a rape and violence in close relationships also affects men, so that we don't make this a women's fight – because it's about a single human struggle. When it comes to dress as you like, and do as you like, I totally agree with that. But at the same time, we tell guys that they shouldn't be too full, and they shouldn't be in some areas of the city. It's okay. At the same time, it is also possible to say, as I make some of my friends, that they might not go alone, and full, along the darkest parts of Akerselva. I am not saying that it is okay that they will be subjected to a rape, but it may be wise to take precautions. I think we're going to think that we also have a separate responsibility, regardless of gender, to try to avoid risk situations. But if you've first been exposed to it, it's just the responsibilities of people, whether you're a man or a woman. Finally, the concept of competence: now there has been talk of women, but I think that the police also need to acquire more expertise on e.g. rape and assault against men, not least in minority settings, where it is used as a weapon to really degrade a man, whether he is gay or not. So competence development is more than violence and rape against women – there are many more groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e633	I would like to thank you for a good debate with many good input that I would like to take with me further in this important work. Because many people have pointed to the need to challenge attitudes, I would also like to highlight the consultation note we have just sent out on violence and sexual offences, where we propose to the issue of consent, which was also mentioned here, that the action description of the rape clause be amended to ensure that all cases of involuntary sexual intercourse are covered by the criminal law. When we also propose to remove the rules on the custody of killing and sexual assault on children, it is to emphasise the importance and seriousness of this crime and how important it is for us to fight it well. Since the interpellant referred to Reform, I will also present the 2007 study on men’s attitudes to rape. It showed that half of them said that a woman who flirts openly is fully or partly responsible if she is subjected to abuse. Every five meant the same thing if she was known for having several partners. So we don't have to go to India to be provoked by attitudes -- we have enough to grab hold of here at home. These attitudes really concern me. They also asked about the view of drunken women in the city – and many people talk about sharing blame. So it can't be stressed strongly enough that the right to say no must apply to everyone and at any time. I noticed that the left did not mean I wanted to deal with individual matters. It is true that as the Council of State I will refrain from commenting on such matters, but they still form the basis for the answer I gave to the interview. When we hear the broad consensus about the measures we plan to take, it gives me a good feeling that we will go further in the fight against rape. It is a serious crime that we must combat as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e644	That being the case, it is no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e650	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e678	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-21.ana.ud1106e690	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
